Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17357 IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 44.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT:
IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY AND QUALITY OF PROVINCIAL HEALTH
SERVICES
June 16, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp I Million   US$ 200
US$ I = Rp 5,000
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CHNIII  - Third Community Health and Nutrition Project (Loan 3550-IND)
CPS  - Central Project Secretariat
CQ  - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Dinas - Province Government Health Department
GOI  - Government of Indonesia
HPIII  - Third Health Project (Loan 3048-IND)
HPIV  - Fourth Health Project (Loan 3905-IND)
HPV  - Fifth Health Project
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IND  - Indonesia
Kanwil - Provincial Office of the Ministry of Health
LAN  - Institute of State Administration
LCS  - Least-Cost Selection
MIS  - Management Information System
MOEC  - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH  - Ministry of Health
N.B.F. - Not Bank-financed
NCB  - National Competitive Bidding
NGOs - Non-Governmental Organizations
PCD  - Project Concept Document
QA  - Quality Assurance
QBS  - Quality-Based Selection
QCBS  - Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SFB  - Selection under a Fixed Budget
SMP  - The Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach (Loan 4207-IND)
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
WHO  - World Health Organization
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director: Dennis de Tray, EACIF
Sector Manager: Maureen Law, EASHN
Task Team Leader: Howard Barnum, EASHN



Indonesia
Fifth Health Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                           2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators     2
B. Strategic Context                                                       2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                       2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  5
C. Project Description Summary                                             5
1. Project components                                               6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project     8
3. Benefits and target population                                    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                     8
D. Project Rationale                                                        8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection        8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                              10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design          11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                  12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                      12
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                 12
1. Economic                                                         12
2. Financial                                                         12
3. Technical                                                         12
4. Institutional                                                     12
5. Social                                                            13
6. Environmental assessment                                          13
7. Participatory approach                                            13



Page
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                14
I. Sustainability                                                   14
2. Critical risks                                                   14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                   14
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                    15
1. Effectiveness conditions                                         15
2. Other                                                            15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                            16
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                           16
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                        17
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description                                  20
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs                                       42
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis                                             44
Annex 5.     Financial Summary                                             49
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                     53
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                   59
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review         60
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                 61
Table D.     Procurement Plan                                           62
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule                        63
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File                                     64
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits                                66
Annex 10.    Indonesia at a Glance                                         68
Annex 11.    Decentralization Plan                                         70
Annex 12.    Guidelines for Expenditures under Deployment Innovations      75
Map IBRD 29471



Indonesia
Fifth Health Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Health, Nutrition and Population Unit
Date: June 16, 1998                                       Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Howard Bamum
Country Manager/Director: Dennis de Tray        Sector Manager: Maureen Law
Project ID: ID-PE-3967    Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition  Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: SIL                                   Program of Targeted Intervention:   [XI Yes   [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                   [X] Loan          [ ] Credit       [  Guarantee    Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm):
Proposed terms:                             []   Multicurrency        [X] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 3            [    Standard Variable    [X] Fixed             [2
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                  Local               Foreign             Total
Government                                                        10.6                  0.9               11.5
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                              22.9                 21.8               44.7
IDA
Other (specify)
Total         33.5                 22.7                56.2
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):          1998      1999        2000        2001        2002       2003
Annual            4.2         8.9         11.6        11.1       8.9
Cumulative           4.2          13.1        24.7       35.8       44.7
For Guarantees:                                      [     Partial credit     [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                  [      Yes                []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5Yrs.
Expected effectiveness date: September/1/1998. Expected Completion: September 30, 2003. Expected closing date: March 31, 2004.
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The overall goals of this project are to achieve greater efficiency of utilization and equity of
distribution of health personnel, increase the skills of health professionals, and improve the quality of
health professional practices.
Instrumental objectives to achieve these goals are to strengthen the decentralization of planning,
deployment and management of personnel, and the role of the private sector; to strengthen the licensing
of health personnel, and support professional associations and quality assurance; to improve the quality of
pre-service and in-service training and strengthen the accreditation of institutions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16691 -IND    Date of latest CAS discussion: July 10, 1997 (Board)
* Greater decentralization through increased autonomy and accountability
* Increasing efficiency and productivity in the public and private sectors:
-  improving the regulatory framework
-  improving infrastructure services and public sector efficiency in dense urban and remote
rural areas
-  raising the quality of health services
-  improving the planning of public and private sector investment
* Enhancing equitable development
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The concern with health professionals in this project is driven by two emerging features of the
health sector in Indonesia: (1) the ongoing policy of decentralization of the sector, and (2) the changing
characteristics of the demand for health services.
With regard to the first feature, decentralization has become a critical policy for health sector
change. The health sector in Indonesia has been at the forefront of a gradual process of decentralization
of planning, management and financing. Province and kabupaten governments are taking on greater
responsibilities in the administration of health services. There is also a growing private sector role in the
provision of health services and of training for health professionals. These changes -- decentralization,
and development of the private sector -- are greatly affected by (as well as affecting) the quality and
employment of health professionals in both the public and private sectors. Improvements in the quality of
the professional work force and in the decentralization of work force management, training, and planning
are required to facilitate sector decentralization more generally.
With regard to the second feature, during the First Long-Term Development Plan (1969-1994),
the Government of Indonesia substantially expanded publicly-provided health facilities and programs.
This expansion has contributed greatly to the reduction of infant and child deaths due to infectious
diseases. At the same time, the country's buoyant economic growth and its successful family planning
programs have boosted real incomes dramatically. This has spurred an increased demand for health
services, both in terms of quantity and quality. Increased prosperity, and the aging of the population,
have resulted in an ongoing rise in chronic diseases, especially cardiovascular diseases and cancer, which
require costly medical care and new preventive programs. Since health problems due to infectious



Page 3
diseases have not yet been eliminated, Indonesia's health system faces the double burden of infectious
and chronic diseases at the same time. These new demands on the health system, together with the
continuing challenge of primary care, are generating changes in the markets for health professionals and
new requirements in skills and deployment in both the public and private sectors.
In addition to the these emerging features of concern for the long run development to the sector,
the project setting has been further complicated by the monetary, political and economic crisis that
developed in the fall of 1997 and spring of 1998. In the medium to long term, these political and
economic events are not likely to change the underlying need for institutional change and improved
performance of the health work force. In the past, the Government has followed a policy of providing
broad access to public services, both preventive and curative, through a centrally directed, and largely
centrally funded, hierarchy of public facilities and programs. However, experience has revealed that
government resources are not adequate to provide health services for all. A continuation of the policy of
zero growth of public sector personnel is probable and will limit the expansion of health professionals in
the public sector. In recent Ministry of Health strategy for the future, the private sector has been
encouraged to provide health services, especially for secondary and tertiary care. Following this strategy
the public sector will use its resources to support public health activities, public goods, and primary
health care, especially for the poor and in remote areas of the country in order to ensure equity.
Issues:
Critical health work force issues are raised by the efforts to decentralize and improve the quality
and availability of services for rural communities and low income groups in both urban and rural areas,
and to sustain the quality of services delivered by health professionals in the setting of fiscal instability
brought on by the economic crisis of 1997/1998. The major sector issues affecting health professionals
are grouped under seven headings. The grouping of the first six issues follows a matrix developed by the
MOH planning unit to link issues, strategy, and project objectives and possible project content. The
issues are all interrelated and closely involve the market for health professionals. Decentralization, noted
above as a major feature of the governments strategy for human resources, is an important element in
solutions for the issues noted below. The economic crisis is discussed under the seventh heading below.
Efficiency. The productivity of the health work force in the public sector appears to be low on
average. There are large numbers of personnel, but there is no mechanism to balance staffing and
utilization at the facility level, resulting in chronic under-utilization of facilities. There is an inefficient
match of personnel skills and program and facility requirements within the sector. The Ministry of
Health is aware of these problems and is supporting innovations such as greater facility autonomy (unit
swadana) to improve motivation and efficiency.
Distribution, utilization, and equity. While tremendous strides have been made in increasing the
number of health centers in rural and remote areas, rural-urban distribution of personnel remains skewed
and utilization of health personnel by the poor remains very low. The Ministry of Health has developed
an innovative program of non-renewable three year compulsory service contracts for doctors and flexible
local rules for recruiting health professionals that has made some progress toward solving the regional
distribution issue, but which needs further refinement to achieve distribution goals. Doctors completing
their contracts do not have incentives to stay in rural areas and lack training and knowledge to compete in
private practice. Nurses with the highest qualifications prefer placement in urban areas and in the larger
hospitals. There is evidence to suggest that demand and facility utilization are sensitive to the placement
of specialist and the quality of other health professionals, yet central deployment of personnel does not
give local level health managers the flexibility of allocating resources to needed categories of personnel.
In addition, independent private sector practices (i.e. those where the practitioners do not have a public
sector position) remain limited in all but the highest income urban areas.



Page 4
Private Sector Development. The private sector in modem health care is growing and critical
related issues need to be addressed. Explosive growth of private sector training schools is not disciplined
by reliable information about the quality of schools or graduates; existing licensing and regulation is
complicated and ineffective. Compulsory service doctors are ill prepared to enter the private sector on
conclusion of their contracts. Civil servants often work in private practice with possible conflicts of
interest with their public employment obligations. The growth of capitated managed care organizations
can potentially lead to problems of poor service quality if not complemented by development of quality
assurance and regulatory systems. Professional associations could play a strong role in quality assurance
but lack a supportive regulatory framework and are too weak to support quality objectives.
Management. Decentralization of the government personnel system needs to be supported by a
variety of management improvements. Current management skills below the central level are uneven in
quality. Information systems also need to be strengthened. Government programs extending greater
autonomy to the management of selected facilities (for example, unit swadana hospitals) are an important
initiative to improve the efficiency of management and need to be supported with improved management
programs. The rapidly expanding private sector faces equivalent challenges in training managers and
implementing management systems.
Quality. Increasing incomes and the changing epidemiological requirements and structure of the
health system are resulting in increased demand for quality of health professionals and services in both
the public and private sectors. Recognizing this, the Ministry of Health has planned a shift from
secondary-level to academy-level nursing schools, and is supporting, with donor help, the development of
new quality assurance mechanisms. .
Policy and Planning. Because the government was the main user and supplier of health
personnel, human resources planning in health has focused on the supply and production of personnel to
meet projected employment needs of the public sector. In the future, policy and planning need to
encompass a larger, more complex system in which the private sector plays an increasingly large role.
This will involve a reorientation of the public sector role towards regulation, standard-setting, public
health, and a renewed focus of service provision on poor and under served groups. The new complexity
of the health sector requires greater capacity for planning in provinces and districts, decentralization of
planning, and an improved information base.
YThe 1997/98 Monetary and Economic Crisis. The 1997/98 crisis has heightened the need for
measures that would contribute to the efficiency and better deployment of the professional health work
force in the public and private sectors. Instability of the government budget threatens the sustainability of
quality services delivered through the public sector in the short run. Yet attention must also be maintained
on the need for improved quality of health professionals to accommodate a recovery and meet the
medium and long term growth in demand for greater quality services. Greater public sector efficiency,
and more careful targeting of public services, is required. Public funds need to be focused on basic
quality care and services for the poor, while strengthening the private sector to cover expanding demand
for quality services in the future.
Strategy:
Principles for a strategy for health manpower have been developed as part of the preparation for
Repelita VII. These principles would
*  decentralize planning and management of health professionals from the central to the provincial and
local levels;
*  shift planning from a target-driven to a market-driven and facility-needs-based approach;



Page 5
*  encourage the growth of demand-responsive private and quasi-private providers to serve urban and
higher-income groups, re-focusing government services on public health and on under served groups;
*  undertake policy and regulatory changes, and redirect resources to increase the quality of training
institutions and programs;
*  adopt policies, incentives, and public sector programs to address distribution and equity deficiencies;
*  introduce finance, budgeting and management innovations to promote greater efficiency, quality and
equity of services; and
*  adopt training, programmatic and financing policies to encourage greater private sector participation
in producing and utilizing human resources in health.
The project would support this strategy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Bank's sector report on Indonesia's Health Work Force: Issues and Options (1994, Report
12835-IND), together with the studies on Health Planning and Budgeting (1991), and Public
Expenditures and the Poor (1993), provide a careful documentation of the critical issues, as outlined in
paragraph 6 above, affecting the quality and availability of health professionals. The project content is
designed to address all of these issues. The reports also suggest strategic choices that are consistent with
the emerging government strategy. The project will advance these strategic choices -- most notably
greater decentralization of management and planning, a renewed focus on quality (rather than quantity), a
public sector policy emphasis on equity, and development of a framework for private sector development.
Because of the monetary and budget crisis, the project has been kept to a modest size and
constrained to items with the highest expected benefits but low requirements for counterpart funds and
recurrent operating costs. The content of the project -- better staff deployment and utilization, control
devolved to facility managers and district and provincial administration, focusing government services on
the poor and expanding the private sector for other services -- are an extension of the broader strategic
response to the monetary crisis across the economy in general to the health sector and health
professionals specifically. This content is strongly needed in response to the new pressures on the
government budget.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):



Page 6
Component                                 Category   Cost Incl.  % of
Contin-   Total
gencies
(US$M)
1. Province Components:
A. Improve Efficiency of Utilization and Equity of Distribution of Health
Professionals.
A.1. Planning and Management. This component would build the province   Institution   6.9       12
capacity for work force planning and management through on-the-job and off-site   building,
training, posting of long term consultants to provincial units, and structural changes  Policy
in the kanwil and dinas to integrate personnel administration and planning. The
component would also develop simplified and rapid information systems and
analysis; information on staffing would be integrated with information on program
performance. The project would fund technical assistance, training, fellowships,
and limited equipment.
A.2. Innovations to Support Allocative Efficiency and Productivity. The  Institution  10.1      18
objective of improved distribution and efficiency of the use of health professionals  building,
would be pursued by innovations in staff deployment and incentives, allocation of   Policy
district budgets through a block grant system, support for the development of
private practice, and conversion of some training institutions and service facilities
to autonomous status. The project would fund technical assistance, training,
equipment, and selected proposals for innovations in staff deployment and
productivity. Possible innovations include pilot programs to improve the attraction
for public health professionals of rural service and service to poor populations, to
promote contracting for private services, and to provide assistance in setting up
private practice.
B. Improve Quality of Health Professionals Practices. The objective of this
component is to introduce clearly defined concepts and standards for quality of
health professionals practices. The standards would provide a concrete link
between services rendered, the capabilities of trained health professionals, and the
content, methodology and capacities of pre-service and in-service training
programs.
B.1. Strengthen the Regulatory System. This sub-component would improve the  Institution  1.7   3
licensing system for health professionals, and strengthen professional associations.  building,
The component would also support the development of a system of accreditation    Policy
and regulation and advisory capacity for training institutions and pilot test the
system in the three project provinces. The project would assist GOI in developing
the system for examnining and licensing health professionals, and pilot test the
system in the three project provinces. The project would fund technical assistance,
training, studies, and equipment.
B.2. Strengthen Professional Associations. The professional associations would  Institution  1.7  3
be assisted to develop and deliver in-service training, networking, and professional  building,
communications for members. The project would fund local technical assistance,   Policy
training, materials and equipment, communications, and limited facility
rehabilitation,
B.3. Promote Quality Assurance for Health Services. This sub-component  Institution   2.1       4
would build on the concept and experiences of Health Project IV to introduce and   building,
further develop a system of quality assurance of basic health services for  Policy



Page 7
Component                                 Category   Cost Incl.  % of
Contin-   Total
gencies
(US$M)
puskesmas in the project provinces. It will also build quality assurance in district
hospitals and adopt and extend the existing concept of Total Quality Management
for hospitals (this subsumes, for example, quality assurance for nurses). The
project would fund technical assistance, training and dissemination materials.
C. Improve Quality of Health Professional Training: The objective of this
component would be to improve the quality of pre-service and in-service training.
Two major categories of health personnel, nurses and midwives, will be the
ultimate target of the proposed activities, because of their critical roles in the health
service delivery system.
C.1. Improve Training Methods and Programs. The component would develop  Institution  10.6      19
both competency based training and case based training methodologies linked to    building,
the quality assurance programs and province context. The component would  Policy
improve curriculum and training methodology, 1raining centers, trainers. The
project would strengthen the role of province hospitals in supporting in-service
training for staff of district hospitals, and district hospitals for supporting in-service
training of puskesmas and other community level health professionals (public and
private). A sub-component would develop distance learning and support
professional networks. The project would fund technical assistance, training and
fellowships, materials and equipment, and vehicles.
C.2. Strengthen Training Institutions. This component would improve the  Institution  12.2     22
quality of pre-service training programs, institutions, teachers, management, and    building,
materials. The project would fund training, fellowships, rehabilitation of physical   Policy,
facilities, materials and equipment, and vehicles.                      Physical
D. Province Project Management. This component would fund consultant    Project       3.9       7
services, office equipment and supplies for province level project management and  manage-
administration.                                                         ment
IL Central Components.
E. Build Central Support for Health Professionals
E.1. Strengthen Planning Capacity and Technical Support. The objective of  Institution  3.2     6
this component would be to build central capacity to analyze and adjust health  building,
human resource policies. The project would provide technical assistance, training,  Policy
equipment for analysis, and studies.
E.2. Improve the Professional Environment. The sub component would      Institution   1.9       3
strengthen the national professional associations ability to communicate with  building,
members and develop professional cohesiveness and support national quality  Policy
objectives. The project would provide technical assistance, training, equipment for
communications, materials, and studies.
F. Project Management: This component woul[d fund consultant services, office    Project  1.9   3
equipment and supplies for central level project management and administration.    manage-
ment
Total                                                56.2     100



Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the decentralization of health services management. During the project
specific functions and budgets would be devolved from national sector agencies to the provincial and
district levels. The project would support the development of local level management and planning
capacity to accept the greater local responsibility and accountability for health services. A more flexible
public sector staffing system would allow the placement of staff according to demonstrated local demand
for services.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target Population:
* Health Service Clients: Although all health service clients would benefit from the higher quality of
health professionals available to the health system, the immediate target populations of the project are
rural populations and low income residents of urban areas in the project districts.
Project Benefits:
The immediate impact of the project will be to improve the utilization, skills, and performance of
health personnel. The ultimate benefits of the project are
*  to increase the quality of curative care in a wide range of facilities, including health centers, public
hospitals, and private practices. This will be reflected in better diagnosis, more appropriate
treatment, and more efficient use of referral.
*  to improve the health status of rural and poor populations through more efficient deployment and
utilization of staff for delivering both curative and preventive services.
At the completion of the project, the project provinces would have acquired through project funds
(a) a decentralized system of staffing management, (b) systems of competency based training tied to
quality assurance programs for both public and private services, (c) improved access to trained health
professionals, (d) trained managers and better staff incentives within the public sector.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented over five years. The Secretary General, Ministry of Health,
would have overall responsibility for overseeing project implementation and coordinating interagency
participation in the project. An upper level steering committee is envisaged to facilitate interagency
coordination. At the central level, day to day operations of the proposed project would be managed by a
Central Project Secretariat (CPS) reporting to the Secretary General.
Given the local emphasis of the project, most activities would be implemented at the province
and kabupaten levels and would be the responsibility of the local governments. At the province level, the
project would be carried out under a secretariat reporting to the head of the provincial ministry of health
(Kanwil). The province government health department (Dinas) would also be directly involved in
implementation. In addition, NGOs and professional associations would be involved. A provincial
coordinating committee would facilitate coordination between agencies.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternatives with regard to content and scope were considered in designing the project.
These were (a) continue the current approach using centrally directed programs and pursuing slow



Page 9
decentralization with no particular emphasis on the health work force, (b) address health professional
work force issues only through supply side training activities, (c) adding demand side components with
substantial direct support for health services, (d) adding an extensive demand side health financing
component, (e) including pre-service training of medical doctors, (f) wide geographic scope covering
many provinces. These alternatives were rejected in favor of a decentralization and institutional change
project that works on both the demand and supply sides of the markets for health professionals, excludes
pre-service training of medical doctors and concentrates on pre-service training of nurses and midwives,
and will be limited to three diverse provinces. The reasons for rejecting each of the alternatives (a)
through (f) are briefly summarized.
a) Continuing the current approach. The government is following a policy of slow decentralization of
most sector functions but many sector functions (including health work force training, management
and planning) still remain directed from the center. Centrally directed programs have not been
sufficiently responsive to local needs or effectively supervised. The failure to develop, implement,
coordinate, and supervise training and other human resource programs for health at the central level
has jeopardized the effectiveness of health programs (for example primary health care, maternal and
child services, communicable disease programs, and facility management) implemented at the local
level. As the adopted alternative, the project would support decentralization of human resource
training functions to the province level and below.
b) Supply side only. Past efforts to address human resource problems have dealt primarily with the
expansion of supply side training capacity to address past deficiencies in the quantity of health
professionals (see section 10). Quality, rather than quantity is now the primary human resource issue.
Evidence from sector analysis indicates that market demand will support increases in quality but not
quantity. For this reason, increases in tTaining capacity would be avoided and supply side activities in
the project will address quality. Through its influence on consumer utilization, quality is also a
critical issue on the demand side. In addition to quality, the major issues faced in the sector -- human
resource distribution and employment, utilization, efficiency and management -- must also be
addressed through support for demand side activities. Thus, the project would have province-
administered activities addressing both demand and supply issues in human resources in health.
Some of the activities that have been identified include use of block grants to promote innovation,
support of selected swadanization, development of incentives for professionals, management
innovation in district hospitals and puskesmas, and support for improved quality and distribution of
health professionals in the private sector.
c) Health service components. In early diialogue with the government it was proposed to provide
support for service improvement as a concomitant (from the point of view of consumer demand) to
improvement in training and deployment. The MOH preferred to keep the project design simple and
to use other ongoing and forthcoming projects to support service improvement. In order to keep the
project focused, direct assistance to services, such as improvement in facilities or equipment, would
be limited to specific activities related to better use of human resources.
d) Healthfinancing component. Also in early dialogue, it was proposed to include an even more
extensive component on health financing, including managed care and other alternatives. The
argument for this is that financing is an important determinant of the characteristics of demand,
efficiency, and equity in the market for health professionals. The GOI, with reference to ongoing
experience with health finance innovation, preferred to limit the risk to the project from moving too
fast on change in this area (and to pursue health finance innovation in the existing Fourth Health
Project). To keep the HPV project focused, financing interventions in the government sector will
concentrate on policy changes to promote flexibility in planning, budgeting, and utilizing health
professionals and increased autonomy for training institutions and selected health facilities.



Page 10
Accreditation, licensing, quality programs, networking and in-service training programs will be
included in the project to strengthen the environment for private sector growth.
e)  Medical doctor pre-service training  In addition, the project would not involve pre-service medical
doctor training, but would involve the pre-service training of other health professionals. The project
would include in-service training of all health professionals including doctors. On the supply side of
the market for health professionals, pre-service training of medical doctors is not included because it
would (1) be costly and absorb funds and attention needed by other professionals, (2) involve another
implementing agency (the Ministry of Education). Under this project, two major categories of health
personnel, nurses and midwives, will be the primary target of the proposed pre-service training
activities, because of their critical roles in the health service delivery system and because their
training is conducted under MOH auspices. Pre-service training of doctors could be included in a
possible future project on medical education.
f)  Wide geographic scope. A broad geographic scope was rejected as difficult to implement and
inconsistent with the decentralization focus of the project. Instead, the project would be executed
primarily at the province level and would be limited to three provinces. The Government has
selected Central Kalimantan (Kalimantan Tengah) which has a predominantly rural, very low density
population with problems of access to well trained health professionals; Central Java (Jawa Tengah)
which has large urban and high population density rural areas, but very large numbers of poor people
needing improved access to well trained providers and quality services, and Southern Sulawesi
(Sulawesi Selatan) which combines both urban and rural access challenges. The intention in the
selection of provinces was to develop components to meet the objectives across a variety of
conditions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                             Project                 Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implemen-   Development
tation     Objective
Progress (IP)   (DO)
Bank-financed
Attempted to improve the work force quality, quantity and  Second Health (Manpower  u             u
policy through supply side activities (primarily pre -  Development) Project - Loan No.
service training) carried out through central agencies.  2542 - IND
Supported local resource mobilization and decentralization  Third Health Project (HPIII) -  HS   HS
of planning, budgeting, and administration of public  Loan No. - 3042 - IND
services in health. Covered two provinces.
Has components that support health sector         Community Health and Nutrition    s             S
decentralization, training of midwives.           Project (CHNIII) - Loan No. 3550
- IND
Is supporting health sector decentralization, development   Fourth Health Project (HPIV) -  S     S
of a system of quality assurance, training for quality  Loan No. 3905 - IND
assurance, health finance innovation, resource
mobilization.
Supports training of midwives, innovation in the market    Safe Motherhood Project (SMP) -  S     S
for midwife services (changing the incentive structure).  Loan No. 4207 - IND



Page 1 1
Sector issue                              Project                 Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implemen-   Development
tation      Objective
Progress (IP)   (DO)
Would support primary through tertiary care, address  Proposed Provincial Health
decentralization, institutional constraints for service  Project
delivery, and health financing, in two provinces.
Other development agencies
Develops autonomy of selected public hospitals, supports   Asian Development Bank
cost recovery and flexibility of resource allocation (not  (ADBIII) -- Third Health Project
including health workers). At mid term the autonomny
aspects of the project are successful.
Developed the hospital autonomy concept. Also supports   USAID -- Health Financing
ongoing health insurance initiatives under the JPKM[ law    Project
(this has been less successful).
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There have been fifteen World Bank projects in the health sector in Indonesia since 1977. Earlier
projects were primarily centered on centrallly planned and supply driven strategies for sector
development. The previous project devoted to health manpower, the Second Health (Manpower
Development) Project (Loan 2542-IND), attempted to improve the work force through supply side
activities carried out through central agencies. The project was centered on provision of new training
facilities. By limiting interventions to the supply side, the project had only limited sustainable
achievements and failed to alter the institutional arrangements that govern health manpower.
More recent projects have emphasized decentralization of management, budgeting and planning,
and selected innovations in management and health financing. The Community Health and Nutrition
Project (CHNIII, closes in 1999), has important components that support decentralization, training and
quality assurance. The recently completed Third Health Project (HPIII) supported local resource
mobilization and an increased provincial role and capacity in planning and budgeting, as well as
administration of public services in health. The Fourth Health Project (HPIV, now two years into
implementation) continues to strengthen the province role, support decentralization of services and
develop local responsibility for quality assurance. The Safe Motherhood Project (SMP, effective
September 1997, addresses both supply and demand and supports decentralization of maternal services.
The Fifth Health Project (HPV) would continue with the strategy supported by HPIII, CHNIII,
HPIV and SMP. Thus, HPV would be the latest in a coordinated series of Bank Health projects involved
with institutional change and decentralization. Experience with these projects has demonstrated that
decentralization of training and strengthening of training institutions which would be done under HPV are
crucial for achieving other aspects of decentralization (such as planning, budgeting, and management of
service delivery).
The critical lessons learned from these projects are:
*   include only a few provinces. Implementation and supervision become difficult when the number of
provinces increase;
*   project should be focused. Complicated projects involving multiple and loosely linked objectives are
less successful; project implementation is also improved by reducing the number of involved
agencies;



Page 12
* decentralization projects require substantial involvement of local government in project preparation
and design;
*  development of management skills are essential to support decentralization;
*  health manpower issues must be addressed by demand side interventions and policy changes as well
as the supply side;
*  a flexible project design -- i.e., avoidance of rigid, detailed blueprints at project outset -- can help the
performance of projects that involve decentralization and institutional change.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Ministry of Health and Bappenas place a high priority on this project and the development of
solutions to health work force issues. A task force and upper echelon steering committee for health
human resources identified the issues, strategy, and concept and guided the development of project
content. Province level teams were highly involved in all stages of project preparation and Kanwils
devoted substantial staff resources to the development of the project. The basic project design and most
of the content comes, from MOH central and provincial staff. Central and province project management
units have been formed and staff has been assigned.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is well situated to support the institutional change in this sensitive area. The Bank, in
other projects and its ongoing dialogue, has been instrumental in promoting the decentralization policies
in the health sector. This project would be the latest in a series of projects that have supported
decentralization and institutional change (see Sections 9 and 10). The project also builds on the
manpower sector study (Report No. 12835- IND) that identifies the critical issues and strategy the
Ministry of Health is following in this sector (see Section 6). This project and sector work are well
regarded by the Government and has generated a continuing lively and engaged discussion with key
officials on the issues of decentralization, health financing and budgeting, and health professional
markets.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.Economic: See Annex 4
The economic analysis covers the following, (i) linkage to CAS, (ii) benefits, (iii) rationale for
public sector investment in health professionals, (iv) risks, (v) alternatives and cost effectiveness, (vi)
poverty assessment. The project has an estimated potential IRR of 45 percent.
2. Financial: See Annex S
3. Technical:
Appropriate Technology. The emphasis in the project on innovation, and quality could provoke the use
of inappropriate technology for training, and curricula in pre-service and in-service sub components.
Technology choices will need to bejustified during project implementation by cost effectiveness and risk
analysis.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: no unusual issues



Page 13
b. Project management: The project will be implemented at the province level. The provinces, with
the exception of Central Java, have only limited experience with procurement and administration for
Bank projects. The planning unit of the Central Ministry of Health will give training and assistance in
project administration to the province units during the first year of the project.
Decentralization. Effective decentralization will require the commitment of both central and provincial
agencies. Central agencies involved in human resource training, deployment and policy have undertaken
a functional analysis (for example, functions include planning, program development, program operation,
resource allocation, management, and information systems) and have identified the functions to be
devolved and a process to shift the responsibility to the provinces. Annex 11 provides a summary of the
decentralization plan and decentralization monitoring criteria. During project preparation provincial
agencies were committed to accepting the new_functions that will be undertaken and development of the
capacity required to accept the responsibility for the functions.
Accreditation and Licensing. Accreditation and licensing have not been effective in the past.
Development of effective accreditation and licensing is critical to link higher quality of training, higher
quality of professional performance, and quality of service delivery. Difficult questions must be faced in
development of accreditation and licensing during the project. Who is to do it? At what level should the
day to day activity be carried out? What is the necessary regulatory and legal framework? What should
be the composition and function of regulatory boards? Can effective sanctions be specified and
implemented? What are the appropriate roles of the government, consumers, the professional
associations, and others? A critical path and process to develop the accreditation and licensing functions
was identified during project preparation and during project implementation a new regulatory framework
and procedure for accreditation and licensing would be adopted.
S. Social:
Gender Issues in Rural Deployment: Women, for traditional social and cultural reasons, are less flexible
in allocation when assigned to work in rural areas. The development of incentives and institutional
structure that will support greater flexibility in women's choice of location will be a challenge for the
project. Additionally, giving adequate attention to nursing accreditation, in-service training, change in
nursing roles could be hampered by the dominance of medical doctors in determining sector policies.
Provincial level advisory groups would be convened for periodic (quarterly) review and advice on the
gender impact of all aspects of the project.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category     []A   []B    [X] C
The project would have a positive, but negligible, effect on the environment through the effects of better
trained health personnel on preventive programs and health status.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation     .    Implementation             Operation
Beneficiaries/community  COL, CON, IS       COL                     COL
groups
Intermediary NGOs                       not yet determined      not yet determined
Academic institutions COL, CON           COL                     COL
Local government COL                   COL                     COL
Other donors COL, CON              IS, COL
Note: The stake holders are described above by their form of planned involvement as: information sharing (IS); consultation
(CON); and collaboration (COL)



Page 14
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is designed to be sustainable through its emphasis on institutional restructuring rather
than bricks-and-mortar construction. Project funds would support restructuring and decentralization,
including some experimentation with alternative forms of organization and service delivery. The project
would provide support for incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis over the five years of
implementation. Through the supported institutional changes the project will encourage resource
mobilization and cost recovery in participating training institutions and autonomous facilities. Local
government commitment is critical to sustainability. Increased responsibility for devolved training
functions at the local level must be accompanied by an adequate transfer of funds from the central to the
local level. The post project fiscal burden appears sustainable. (See comments in sectionj on critical
risks, in Block 4 on conditionality and in Annex 5 on fiscal burden).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating                Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objectives
Failure to absorb decentralized functions   M       To develop commitment to decentralization, most of project
effectively at province level                       preparation was done by province level teams. In the short run,
some inefficiency in management is an expected part of the
learning process which constitutes decentralization. The risk is
to be reduced by a phased and monitored program of
incrementally increased responsibility and discretionary
authority over budgets. (see Block 4 on conditionality).
Project does not go far enough on demand    L       There is a trade off between this risk and the alternative risk of
side financing                                      complicating implication by supporting far reaching health
financing components. (see Section 8, rejected alternative _).
Evaluation of experience to date suggested that the alternative
risk would be higher than the program of incremental change
that would be adopted in HPV.
From Components to Outputs
Failure to decentralize management and      M       Pusdiknakes and Pusdiklat (the MOH agencies responsible for
budget of Pusdiknakes and Pusdiklat --             in-service and pre-service training in health) have specified the
project degenerates to a central project (see       functions to be devolved.
Section 8 rejected alternative ~)
Failure to implement the demand side        M       The importance of labor markets and demand side issues in
proposals effectively -- project degenerates        determining the allocation of human resources was stressed
to a supply side project (see Section 8,            during the process of project preparation.
rejected alternative )
Inability to develop effective licensing and  L     Development of commitment and content for effective
accreditation                                       accreditation and licensing is being promoted by ongoing
dialogue among professional associations and will receive
outside technical assistance during project implementation.
Overall Risk Rating   M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   The health sector is a large public sector employer. Measures to change deployment of public sector
health professionals, to alter public sector employment policies, and to change the private sector role
could be resisted by public sector employees who are comfortable with the existing policy. (For
example, the extension of budget allocation flexibility to include personnel in autonomous facilities.)
An effort has been made to include all stake holders in the discussions of health work force policy
and project development.



Page 15
* Some of the project improvement in quality of health professionals and health professional training
may involve training in treatment methodologies or use of technologies that conflict with the
commonly accepted assumption among selected donors or NGOs that less trained personnel and only
simple basic technologies should be used for primary health care programs in low income countries.
Criticism could center on presumed inappropriate technology, or the Government's and the project's
focus on quality as the major training goal. However, the policies that would be supported by the
project are well founded in sector analysis and WHO and USAID staff contributed to the project's
design.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Conditions
There are no board conditions.
2. Other:
Management Aspects
1. The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the project:
(a) a Central Project Management Unit, in accordance with the terms of reference, staffing and
resources acceptable to the Bank;
(b) a Central Project Secretariat, in accordance with the terms of reference, staffing and
resources acceptable to the Bank;
(c) a Provincial Project Management Unit in each of the Project Provinces, in accordance with
the terms of reference, staffiing and resources acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) a Provincial Project Secretariat in each of the Project Provinces, in accordance with the
terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank.
2. Decentralization of functions currently undertaken by the Central Ministry of Health Agencies for in-
service training and pre-service training, and the bureau of personnel will take place according to an
agreed schedule (Annex 11 of the Project Appraisal Document).
3. Deployment innovations will be reviewed and approved in accordance with agreed guidelines (Annex
12 of the Project Appraisal Document).
4. A strategy for training, setting out the role and scope of quality assurance and competency based
training, will be made available to the Bank by March 31, 1999.
5. A proposal for accreditation and licensing linked to competency based training and quality assurance,
and a time table for implementation will be completed by July 15, 2001.
6. Training and fellowships will be carried out in accordance with the agreed guidelines in Annex 13 of
the Project Appraisal Document and implementation timetables acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring, review, and reporting
1. The Borrower shall:



Page 16
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with the Project performance indicators, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b) no later than July 15, in each year, until the completion of the project, furnish to the Bank, a
report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request integrating: (i) the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the project during the period preceding the date of
the said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
f the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; (ii) a description and action plan for Project activities proposed for the next fiscal year,
and (iii) a detailed procurement schedule for the next fiscal year;
(c) review with the Bank, by August 31, in each year, until the completion of the project, or
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) above
and carry out annual Project implementation review;
(d) at the third annual review, carry out a comprehensive mid-term assessment of project
implementation; and
(e) promptly thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion and
recommendations of the reviews carried out pursuant to subparagraphs (c) and (d) above, and
the Bank views on the matter.
2. Studies will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the Bank;
results of the studies will be furnished to the Bank no later than four months after each study is
completed; and promptly after the completion of the study GOI will prepare relevant action plans,
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the studies.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
__ __ __ __                  A%ut A.K^cSu.  La~                                   k
Howard Barnum                Maureen Law                        ennis de Tray
Task Team Leader             Health Sector Manager             Country Director



17
Annex 1
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                 (Goal to Bank Mission)
Increasing efficiency and                                                                The Bank mission is fully
productivity                                                                             consistent with the CAS
objectives.
Enhancing equitable
development
Greater decentralization                                                                      .-
Project Development                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Increase the decentralization    Identified budget, plans and  Budgets, plans, and personnel    There are institutional risks
of training, planning and    deployment functions         data by level and agency;      that (1) decentralized functions
deployment of health         decentralized in accordance  supervision reports            will not be absorbed at local
personnel                    with the Decentralization Plan                              level, (2) the central agencies
will not relinquish the
functions effectively, (3) the
private sector activities will
not take root as planned
Improve the quality of health   Proportion of district facilities   Provincial and district and  Professionals accept and
professional services        with specified quality health    health office monitoring   understand quality goals.
professionals                information and reports
Proportion of population with
access to health professionals
Improve the quality of pre-  Proportion of graduates      Provincial and district health  Policy support from MOE and
service and in-service training   meeting project developed  office monitoring information    local governments will be
standards;                   and reports; professional      needed to change the
Proportion of academies      association information;       curriculum. National policy
meeting accreditation criteria   supervision reports        support will be needed for
effective accreditation.
Outputs:                                                                                 (Outputs to Objective)
Program to recruit area      Proportion of puskesmas and    District and province health  National development policy
compatible students;         district hospital job openings    office monitoring information    support, national civil servant
Distribution program with   filled;                       and reports                    policy, local government
curricula, degree alternatives,   Numbers of Practitioners in                            support
tuition incentives, internships;  public and private sector per
Incentive program;           capita;
Distance support             Proportion of new hires
recruited locally
Capacity and recognized      Provinces benefiting from    Supervision reports            Provinces accept
responsibilities for planning at  outputs at left.                                       responsiblities for specified
province and kabupaten level;  Kabupaten benefiting from                                 local planning functions
outputs at left.
Operating MIS on personnel                                                               Development and retention of
performance and costs;                                                                   personnel to operate MIS
system
Greater central planning
capacity



18
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Management training          Developed management          Project Province and district  Adequate management for
programs;                   training programs and          records;                      autonomous facilities,
Management Training          curricula;                                                  Sufficient demand for
Curricula;                   Numbers of trained managers                                 sustainable private practices
Trained Managers;            at Kabupaten;
Autonomous facilities        Number and performance
(service and costs) of
autonomous facilities
Number of project supported    Professional Association
new private practices        records, Project records
Private sector managers      Number of trained private    Training records, private sector
receive project designed     sector managers;             reporting,
training;
Private sector academies use    Number of private schools
improved curricula and       adopting new competency
competency based training;   based training;
Expanded role for provincial   Identified professional
and local professional       association activities and
associations                 membership contacts
Support for professional    Number and location of
private practice             professionals supported
Improved staff distribution;  Measures of puskesmas and   Kanwil and district facility and    National development policy
district hospital under staffing;   health professional monitoring    support, national civil servant
Better facility staff mix    Distribution of staff by skill                              policy, local government
greater client satisfaction  level;                                                      support
Facility use and occupancy
rates
client surveys
Training institutions with   Curricula revised for specific    Kanwil monitoring reports  National education policy
upgraded programs linked to    health professionals                                      support,
competencies and quality     Number of facilities         Project suppQrted monitoring
assurance.                  rehabilitated, numbers of     and evaluation system for      National accreditation policy
Rehabilitated training       trainers trained             training                       support,
institutions                Numbers of professionals
Better trained staff        trained and employed from     participating hospital and     Government policy and legal
Training institution         upgraded programs             puskesmas reports             support for accreditation and
accreditation system         Proportion of institutions                                  licensing,
subjected to new accreditation
system                                                      Availability of experts
Improved curricula and       Number of in-service training    as above                   National education policy
programs for in-service      courses offered, numbers of                                 support,
training                     retrained trainers, numbers of                              Policy acceptance of
enrollees                                                   competency based/case study
program linked to quality
assurance, availability of
experts, LAN (Inst. of state
administration) policy support.
Greater access to distance   Numbers of health             as above, Bapelkes reports and    Technologically practical
training programs            professionals fully covered by   monitoring information     systems exist Expertise exist



19
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
and professional networks  in-service programs and                                    or can be developed for
professional networks                                     implementation.
Stronger professional       Proportion of eligible      Reporting from professional   Supporting government policy
associations                professionals voluntarily paid   associations             on NGOs,
members, improved programs
and communications
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                                     (Components to Outputs)
components:                component)
Efficiency of Utilization and    Improved distribution of health  Province, district and  Supportive policy from
Equity                     professionals, higher        institutional records         Ministry of Home Affairs,
occupancy and use rates for                               local governments, Menpan.
facilities, size and strength of
private sector practices
Quality of Health Professional  Numbers of facilities with  Province, district and    National education policy
Practices                  functioning QA systems       institutional records;       support; Government support
Improved performance of     QA survey instruments         on licensing
health professionals on defined
competencies
Quality of Health Professional  Improved performance of  Province, district and       National education policy
Training                   training institutions, facilities,  institutional records;  support; Government support
on defined competencies     QA survey instruments         on accreditation
Central Planning and Policy    Planning activities and  Supervision review of products   Absorptive capacity,
products (studies, strategy,                              Government policy on NGOs
plans) for health professionals



20
Annex 2
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Detailed Project Description
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The overall goals of this project are to achieve greater efficiency of utilization and equity of
distribution of health personnel, improve the quality of health professional practices, and increase the skills
of health professionals. The ultimate outcome of the objectives would be improved equity, efficiency and
quality of health services. The project objectives apply to both public and private sectors.
Instrumental objectives to achieve these goals are as follows:
to strengthen the decentralization of planning, deployment and management of personnel, and the
role of the private sector;
to strengthen the licensing of health personnel, and support professional associations and quality
assurance;
to improve the quality of pre-service and in-service training and strengthen the accreditation of
institutions.
The project will improve the health status of rural and poor populations through more efficient
deployment and utilization of staff in delivering curative and preventive services.
SCOPE
The project would have limited scope of geographic coverage and limited scope of content.
Project sites. With regard to geographic coverage, the project would be executed primarily at the
province level and would be limited to three provinces. The Government has selected Central Kalimantan
(Kalimantan Tengah) which has a predominantly rural, very low density population with problems of
access to well trained health professionals; Central Java (Jawa Tengah) which has large urban and high
population density rural areas, but very large numbers of poor people needing improved access to well
trained providers and quality services, and Southern Sulawesi (Sulawesi Selatan) which combines both
urban and rural access challenges. The intention in the selection of provinces was to develop components
to meet the objectives across a variety of conditions. The combined provinces have a total population of 39
million. The population density ranges from 868/km2 (Central Java) to 1 l/km2 (Central Kalimantan).
Project content. With regard to content, the project would have province-administered activities
addressing both demand and supply issues in human resources in health. Thus the project addresses the
institutions and conditions of employment, distribution and use of health professionals as well as the quality
of health professional practices and the selection and training of professionals. To keep the project focused,
demand side financing innovations in the government sector are concentrated on policy changes to promote
flexibility in planning, budgeting, and utilizing health professionals. Direct assistance to services and
financing interventions, such as improvement in facilities and equipment or changes to pricing, would be
limited to specific activities related to better use of human resources. In addition, the project would not
involve pre-service training of medical doctors, but would involve the pre-service training of other health
professionals. The project would include in-service training of all health professionals including doctors.



21
PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project components are grouped into two headings: Province components (to be carried out in
Central Java, Central Kalimantan and South Sulawesi) and Central components. The provincial
components will be managed and implemented by provincial district level teams (see Annex 4 on project
management). A description of the component objectives and the main activities of the sub-components
follows. Additional implementation detail is contained in the documentation listed in Annex 4.
I. Province Components
Province components comprise a collection of integrated activities to improve the efficiency of
utilization and distribution of health professionals, improve health professional practices, and to strengthen
the quality of training..
Component A: Improve the Efficiency of Utilization and Equity of Distribution of Health
Professionals (Total base costs = US$ 13.5 million).
This component will strengthen sec0or planning and management, and support measures to improve
deployment and productivity of health personnel. The objectives of the component are to improve the
efficiency and utilization of health services, to support decentralization, and to improve the equity of access
to well trained health professionals.
Sub-component A.1. Improve Personnel Planning and Public Sector Management.
A. 1. Ia Management and Planning. The project would support measures to increase province and local
capabilities in personnel planning and management in support of decentralization (see Annex 11). To be
meaningful and to ensure the motivation of trainees, the training in planning and management would be
accompanied by genuine enlargement of mEnagerial scope and discretion. The measures would improve
planning, analysis and personnel management capabilities of the provincial and district health managers,
and hospital and puskesmas managers, through: (i) identification of the scope of management
responsibilities, (ii) personnel management workshops, with local and domestic consultants to assist in
curriculum and learning materials design; (iii) long term consultants to assist provincial units and to
conduct on-the-job training at the provincial, kabupaten, and facility levels; (iv) investment in planning
capacity and data management and, (v) short and long term domestic and overseas fellowships.
Activities:
1. Develop a statement of the scope and responsibilities of managers.
2. Prepare curriculum and learning materials for the personnel planning and management training and
workshops for the three provinces.
3. Provide long term local consultants to be assigned in the three project provinces to assist central,
province, district and facility health managers to conduct on-the job training for management and
improved personnel planning, and develop simple methods of analysis to support planning.
4. Develop and conduct workshops on personnel planning, deployment and human resource development.
5. Identify and award fellowships for selected staff to attend strategic planning and human resources
development seminars, workshops and diploma programs.



22
Curriculum design will be conducted in the provinces with the technical support of the Bureau
Personnel and in cooperation with relevant institutions including Pusdiklat, MENPAN, and BAKN.
Learning materials will be prepared and developed by a small workshop facilitator and teaching team.
Workshops will be conducted in the Bapelkes at each project province. Workshop participants will be
personnel managers of the province health offices, kabupaten health offices, and personnel managers from
district hospitals. Additional workshops will be developed and conducted for representatives from local
government, heads of district health offices, and directors of district hospitals. The workshops will be
prepared by the consultant in close consultation with the Kanwil.
A.1.1b. Improve personnel information capabilities. The project would support the development of a
practical personnel management information system (MIS) at the district and provincial level. The basic
software already exists. (The Central Personnel Bureau has developed the prototype for the system. and the
experience in CHN III and in Central Java provides an additional base for MIS development.) Current data
flows would be simplified and improved. Information on staffing would be integrated with information on
program and facility performance. Personnel information systems would be integrated with personnel
administration, so that the issuance of letters of appointment, promotion, or transfer would automatically be
reflected in the database, with regular exchanges of data between administrative offices.
Activities:
1. Develop design specifications for decentralized personnel MIS.
2. Design the MIS.
3. Procure and install necessary hardware, software.
4. Train operators and managers in use of the system.
5. Operate system with assistance.
6. Operate system.
The Central Personnel Bureau would provide technical support in collaboration with Central Java
for the development and implementation of the system, ensuring compatibility with the central system now
in use in DEPKES, and assist in dissemination to Central Kalimantan and South Sulawesi. Local and
domestic consultants would provide assistance.
A. 1.2. Development of Daftar Susunan Pegawai Deployment System (DSP). The DSP is an authorized
staffing level system that is considerably less rigid than the existing ISN staffing norms. The DSP would
include a decentralized recruiting system that would allow the placement of staff according to demonstrated
local demand for services. As a natural outgrowth of improved planning and information capacities, the
project will support technical assistance at the province, and where appropriate, the kabupaten level, to
develop authorized staffing levels (a daftar susunan pegawai ) for each facility. While it may build to some
extent on the ISN system, it would have two distinguishing features. First, it would be a multilevel system,
with province level managers allocating staff levels between kabupaten based on performance indicators,
and kabupaten managers allocating among facilities or units. Second, it would be complemented by more
transparent personnel administration and information systems designed to discourage inefficient transfers
between facilities or kabupaten. The system would de-link authority to transfer staff from the authority to
set staffing levels.
Recruiting would be gradually decentralized to the facility level to allow managers greater control
over staff and to encourage more efficient reallocation of staff between facilities. Personnel functions at
kabupaten and provincial levels would shift towards a job market clearinghouse function, include the
posting and dissemination of information about vacancies.



23
Activities:
1. Assess workloads, competence levels and requirements at each staffing level.
2. Design DSP for health service personnel.
3. Disseminate the DSP system to province and kabupaten.
4. Implement the system.
5. Monitor, evaluate, and incorporate into routine planning.
The DSP would be designed by the Central Personnel Bureau (CPB) in consultation with Menpan.
The CPB would provide technical support for the implementation of the system. The system would be
monitored by the province and evaluated annually by the CPB.
Sub-component A.2. Innovations to Support Allocative Efficiency and Productivity.
A.2. 1. Improve incentives for more efficient and equitable deployment and performance in rural areas.
The project would support the introduction of improved recruitment incentives for puskesmas with
insufficient professional health staff, and an improved performance incentive structure for: (i) puskesmas
managers, (ii) puskesmas staff, and (iii) hospital staff. Non salary productive investments, such as training,
housing, travel, communications, and honoraria for special services, could be funded from the loan. Salary
incentives, or non productive incentives, would be funded by GOI budgets.
The objective of performance incentives would be to motivate health professionals in hospitals and
puskesmas to increase utilization rates, especially for the poor. The basis of the performance linked
incentives would be comparison of actual service performance with targets set in accordance with specified
norms for services, staffing and budgets, and demand projections. The higher incentives would go to those
who overachieve the service norms with less than the standard staffing and budget, and do so in line with
their demand side projections. The performance measures and baselines would be established during the
initial project year. Sustained funding of performance incentives would be through revised arrangements
for retention and distribution of fee revenues generated by facilities, and agreed use of district budgets upon
demonstrated effectiveness of incentives
Recruitment incentives would focus on recruiting and retaining puskesmas managers and selected
health professionals in the project areas' most remote puskesmas locations. The incentives would be linked
to better specification of the work requirements, especially in terms of the work practices (e.g., increased
clinic hours) aimed at increasing the capability for increased utilization, especially by the poor, in the
remote locations. Dimensions of the incentives could include some combination of salary differentials,
increased priority for civil service employment, support for post PTT specialist training, internal study
tours, and rotation through local hospitals. Additionally, staff moving from urban to rural postings might be
offered compensation for moving expenses, improvements of amenities such as better housing, solar
electricity and better communications, scholarships (to defray boarding costs) for their children. Minimum
standards for providing care through the puskesmas could be set and enforced. The initial choice of
incentives can be made during the first year of the project informed by the study of incentives in project
files.
Activities (see details in the project documentation):
1. (a) Design and (b) introduce recruitment incentives for service in remote locations.
2. (a) Design and (b) introduce a performance based system of incentives for puskesmas staff.



24
3. (a) Design and (b) introduce a performance based system of incentives for hospital staff in the project
districts.
4. (a) Design and (b) introduce incentives to reduce over staffing by formasi pegawai at facilities in the
more attractive locations.
5. Conduct incentives impact review. Each year the province Kanwil planning office would review the
impact and appropriateness of the incentive structure in relation to improved service in remote locations
and increased utilization, especially by the poor.
The CPB and CPS would prepare guidelines to be issued to the provinces for the design of the
recruitment incentive packages in the project's remote puskesmas. Local and domestic consultants would
be provided on a short-term and long-term basis to assist adapting the guidelines to design and apply a
system of incentives and performance assessment at the provincial, district, and facility levels. The
assistance would include guidance on setting incentive levels and establishing the baselines and measures
for the utilization indicators. This would involve on-the-job assistance and off-site workshops. Technical
support would also be provided by the CPB and CPS.
A 2.2. Development of self-sustaining private practitioners (midwives, nurses, medical doctors). Contract
doctors and midwives who have completed their contracts and who are not entering the civil service will be
assisted to enter private practice. The activity could be enlarged to support the development of group
practices of post PTT doctors, nurses and midwives in selected locations. In Central Kalimantan or South
Sulawesi, nurses would also be given support to develop private (or quasi - autonomous) practices in
selected remote areas in association with medical doctors (radio contact could be used to complement this
activity). The project would train post PTT doctors and BDD in basic health care business management
and assist them to develop a step by step action plan in preparation for becoming private practitioners.
Activities:
1. Provide business development training.
2. Provide local small business development consultants to assist the BDD in developing action plans.
3. Provide assistance in securing credits.
4. Promote programs with PT ASKES, JAMSOSTEK, and other firms providing health insurance,
including experimenting with prepayment and community financing schemes and different benefit
packages tailored to rural market.
5. Pilot recruitment and incentive schemes to encourage ex-PTT doctors to relocate to staff short areas.
6. Establish targeted performance based contracts with basic fees paid for public good type services. The
latter might be done by paying a capitation fee to post contract BDD to provide a basic package of
midwifery services to members of "pre-welfare" households.
A 23. Supportfor Unit Swadana The project will support the acceleration of autonomy for selected
district hospitals, puskesmas and training facilities using the "unit swadana" concept. The objectives of the
component are to increase the flexibility of resource allocation in autonomous facilities to increase the
efficiency and utilization of services (including the poor), achieve staffing levels and costs which are in line
with demand, and provide improved quality of care. Five hospitals in Central Java and one hospital in
South Sulawesi have been functioning for several years as swadana hospitals. These hospitals have
adopted innovative activities in personnel management that have improved hospital performance.
Extension of hospital autonomy to district hospitals and puskesmas will be done selectively with careful
monitoring of the process to ensure there is no conflict with the equity and efficiency goals of the project.
Most of the swadana activity will take place in Central Java.



25
Guidelines for conversion of facilities to swadana will be adapted based on experience with
existing autonomization projects. Facilities to be converted must have achieved required levels of
utilization and cost recovery as set out in the precursor prototype projects for unit swadana. The activity
will support the adaptation of existing guidelines to district hospitals, puskesmas and training facilities; and,
workshops for district managers to introduce the concept and training to facility managers and staff in
implementation of the concept. In addition the activity may use incentives to attract specialists to
kabupaten hospitals and technical support for facility operation where this is a catalytic intervention to
allow hospitals to reach the bed occupancy rate and cost recovery prerequisites for conversion to unit
swadana.
The sub-component for swadanization will include (i) guidelines and information for local
governments who own the hospitals to be converted; (ii) technical support for best practices, using
experienced staff from successful swadana hospitals as consultants to provide management training and
specialized advice in areas such as marketing, equipment maintenance, and budgeting; (iii) training for
hospital managers who run the Class C district hospitals to be converted; and, (iv) monitoring of the
swadanization process to ensure that the three objectives of the project for swadana (the poor are served,
there is no over staffing by formasi pegawai, and quality care is provided) are likely to be achieved.
Activities:
1. Adopt existing best practices and guidelines from the experience in successful swadana institutions.
2. Conduct orientation seminars for mayors (Bupatis), local parliament members, Bappeda, district hospital
directors and others. Government leaders and hospital directors from successful swadana institutions
would present their experience.
3. Conduct workshops for hospital administrators. Local consultants would be used. For instance, in
Central Java, Tidar hospital in collaboration with Gadjah Mada University would conduct the
workshops. Business plan development would be a focal subject.
4. Technical support would be provided to district hospitals by "best practices consultants" hospital
administrators from successful hospital swadana, such as Tidar Hospital, Mataram Hospital, Kudus
Hospital, and others.
5. Monitor the effects of autonomization.
The Central Java project management team would review best practices in existing autonomous
facilities and adopt existing guidelines. The hospital swadana training will be conducted in the first and
second project years. The orientation seminars and hospital swadana workshops for the hospital
administrators would be managed at the provincial level. The province teams would identify the best
practices consultants for the district hospitals. The best practices study and orientation seminars would be
conducted during the first year. Best practices consultants would be provided during all project years.
A.2.4. Deployment Innovation (DI). Funds would be set aside to support special activities proposed by
district management or province kanwils to improve the equity and efficiency of deployment of health
professionals. The funds would be provided to develop and implement proposals for activities which would
promote and demonstrate: (i) innovations in staff deployment and productivity, (ii) private provider
development, (iii) swadana institution development, (iv) contracted services that promote the component
objectives, and (v) incentives for rural location, service to poor populations, and higher performance level,
(vi) other interventions which demonstrate innovations in staff deployment, productivity and community
participation in assessment that address the main issues of the imbalance between urban and rural staff
distribution and low utilization in rural areas, especially by poor people. Project impact would be
monitored and evaluated.



26
The DI could be used to develop activities that the Government could subsequently support through
the allocation of govermment budget in the form of block grants. This activity would build on existing
initiatives to rationalize and decentralize the budget through a gradual shift in the form of central subsidies
from position-linked salaries to untied block grants. The existing government block grant initiatives would
be developed to allow flexibility in employee expenditure at the district level. These initiatives include
ongoing efforts to shift recurrent expenditures from the development to the routine budget, and the pilot
project in kabupaten decentralization, which shift employees (at least nominally) from the central to the
provincial payrolls.
The DI would enable provinces or kabupaten to explore tradeoffs among different types of staff
expenditure, and between salary and non salary expenditures. For instance, district managers might desire
to hire fewer PTT doctors and bidans, but to pay them performance based incentives. They might decide to
contract to private providers for in-service training, or to contract out some health service activities.
Eventually provinces might be offered the option of receiving all new 'formasi' in cash equivalents rather
than in positions. The long term goal would be to fund an increasing proportion of both salary and non
salary expenditures from decentralized budgetary funds.
One option that could be explored under the DI would be to contract with private post PTT BDD,
doctors, or nurses (in selected remote areas), or group practices to provide midwifery and other medical
services to the poor and to provide services of a "public good" nature to all villagers (service such as health
education which are impractical to provide on the basis of individual fees). The contract would involve the
payment of a capitation fee for the provision of a basic package of midwifery services to members of "pre-
welfare" households. The contracts would be monitored to ensure that services of satisfactory quality and
are provided in an effective and efficient manner.
The program for deployment innovation would be predicated on the development of provincial or
kabupaten capacity for planning and budgeting, and would draw on innovations demonstrated during the
project. While the supported program might initially be demonstrated with loan funds, sustainability
requires that eventually the supported program would be funded by 'repackaging' existing budgetary flows.
The government block grants to fund the innovative programs would be implemented on a trial basis in
selected kabupatens. In implementing the block grants, design issues may require discussions with the
MOF, MOHA, Bappenas, and Menpan.
Activities:
1. Set up procedures'
2. Train staff in proposal preparation.
3. Receive proposals and award funding support.
4. Implement.
5. Monitor, report and evaluate.
The province support team would lead the development of the procedures, promotion and training,
and would review and advise on the suitability of all proposals. Proposals would be approved by the
Provincial Health Officer after consideration of the review and recommendations of the transition support
team. The effectiveness of the SAF would be monitored by the central project secretariat and MOH.



27
Component B: Improve the Quality of Health Professional Practices
(Total base costs = US$ 4.4 million).
The objective of this component is to introduce clearly defined concepts and standards of quality of
health professionals practices. The component would change the professional environment and improve
the quality of professional practices in delivering services in the public, non-governmental and private
sectors. The three sub-components would contribute to this objective by strengthening the regulatory
system, strengthening the professional associations, and promoting the use of quality assurance for health
services.
Sub-component B.1. Strengthen the Regulatory System.
The project would assist provinces to develop institutional structures to (a) strengthen licensing,
and regulation of individual health practitioners and (b) accredit educational and health service institutions.
These structures would adapt and implement the legislative and regulatory frameworks developed at the
central level (see Central Component E.2).
B.1.1. Strengthen Licensing of Health Professionals. This sub-component will support province level
implementation of a national model for statutory regulation and licensing of health professionals. Each
province will develop a system and institutional structure to be applied to the licensing of individual
medical doctors, nurses, midwives. Other health professionals could be added in later years of the project.
Activities:
1. System development (study, technical assistance, equipment, development of management system,
procedures).
2. Development and testing of licensing instruments.
3. Information dissemination.
4. Implementation.
S. Evaluation and adjustment.
Implementation of the system will be done by the provincial ministry of health in conjunction with
health professional organizations. National technical assistance will be required to develop and implement
the system.
B.1.2. Develop Accreditation for Institutions. This activity would support accreditation of educational
institutions and continuing education courses. Standard criteria and implementation steps for accrediting
nursing and midwifery academies developed at national level would be adapted and piloted within project
provinces. The national level accreditation would include the quality assurance and competency based
training program meeting local needs.
Activities:
1. System development.
2. Accreditation instruments and procedures will be tested.
3. Training, seminars, and dissemination will be conducted.
4. Implementation.
5. Evaluation and adjustment.



28
Implementation of the system will be done by the provincial ministry of health in conjunction with
health professional organizations. National technical assistance will be required to develop and implement
the system.
Sub-component B.2. Strengthen Professionals Associations.
The objective of this component is to strengthen the provincial professional associations for
medical doctors (IDI), nursing (PPNI) and midwives (IBI) so that they can contribute to improving the
quality of health professional education and the quality of health practice. The strengthened associations
would (a) attract and serve members through activities such as information dissemination, association
meetings, and advice on implementation of regulatory mechanisms, (b) assist in the development and
delivery of in-service education and training programs to their members through collaboration with
educational institutions, (c) assist in the areas of accreditation of institutions, and registration, certification
and in-service education for members.
The project will finance the set up of provincial administrative offices, including rental of space,
equipment and communication facilities. It will also support orientation activities, studies and network
development to prepare professional leadership for assuming roles in assisting members to increase their
knowledge about quality practice and responsibilities. Modest support will be provided to set up an
information system, desktop publishing capability, and strong communication equipment linking them with
district officers. The assistance will improve the association's office capability so that they can
successfully maintain membership roles, prepare publications for members, and in general operate in an
effective and efficient way to provide high quality services.
Activities:
(1) Motivate local leadership.
(2) Set up provincial offices.
(3) Develop administrative and communications capacity.
(4) Motivate and recruit members, collect dues.
(5) Provide member services.
Sub-component B.3. Promote Quality Assurance for Health Services.
The objective of this component is to build a an integrated system of quality assurance and
assessment in health centers, hospitals and training institutions. The system will integrate training, based
on newly introduced training methodologies such as competency based training (CBT), and quality
assessment methodologies in institutions. The objective of promoting quality assurance assessment will be
systematically implemented through training and workshops, following the pattern employed within the
Health Project IV. QA will be integrated into the competency-based training sub-components outlined in
the section on training (Component C) which follows.
Support to quality assurance activities will encompass (a) training of trainers to conduct training
and workshops for health care decision-makers, managers and individual health care professionals and
health care teams as well as supervisory staff on total quality management (TQM) and quality assurance
implementation; (b) technical assistance from other provinces that are experienced with quality assurance
programs in hospitals and health centers; (c) modification and translation of training materials to adapt QA
programs for local use within hospitals, health centers and sub-health centers; (d) short term fellowships for



29
hospital/health center clinical role models and teachers in in-service and pre-service training institutions,
and (e) operations research or evaluation studies.
The project will improve health center and sub-health center quality of care within the three
provinces. The focus will be on a selection of a priority package of basic health services and the
clinical/technical competencies required for their management. This package includes the competencies
required to manage the following: immunization, antenatal care, tuberculosis, malaria, acute respiratory
infections, nutrition and diarrheal disease.
Training will all be conducted within the first and second years of the project. Problem solving
meetings and analysis of supervisory results will be built into regular management and clinical staff
meetings at various levels in the system. Teaching staff of training institutions will integrate quality of care
concepts into their regular teaching curricula for nurses and midwives. Education institutions include
nursing and midwifery SPK and academies, other paramedical academies, and the provincial training
centers (Bapelkes). Managers of health service institutions at district, sub-district and village levels will
integrate QA into regular supervision and management practices in district health offices, hospitals, health
centers and sub health centers. Reports will be prepared to share feedback results and progress with
various health care service providers and administrators.
Activities:
(1) Use of technical assistance to consolidate and adapt concepts, develop training program;
(2) Training of trainers, workshops;
(3) Assimilation of training methodologies into training academies;
(4) Introduction of QA techniques into service institutions, supervision and management;
(5) Monitoring and feedback.
Component C: Improve the Quality of Health Professionals Training
(Total base costs = US$ 18.8 million).
This component will increase the quality of health professionals through (i) improvements in
training methods and programs and (ii) strengthening training institutions. The clinical and technical skills
of doctors, nurses and midwives will be the main targets of the proposed activities, because of their critical
roles in the health service delivery system and their existing numbers. However the pedagogical and
institutional improvements in the program will also have an effect on the quality of training for other health
professional categories.
The component will develop programs, curricula, and degree alternatives to build the health work
force capability to meet standard competencies as developed within a quality assurance system and to
respond to local needs. Resources will focus on both in-service for medical doctors, nurses, midwives and
others and pre-service training for nurses and midwives. Nurses and midwives make up the largest numbers
of health providers throughout the provinces and are the most likely groups to be functioning in rural and
remote areas. Competency profiles of nurses, midwives, medical doctors and others will be reassessed and
workshops and educational programs selected to strengthen capability of health service providers and
trainers/tutors. Innovations in training and teaching/learning strategies will be developed and introduced
into regular programs.



30
Sub-component C.1. Improve Training Methods and Programs.
This sub-component will introduce improved training methods and programs. The sub-component
will support the decentralized development of a set of teaching and learning skills for health professionals
relevant to varying responsibilities in areas of (a) clinical and technical service provision, and (b)
management. The targets are teachers, nurses, midwives, managers and other types of provider in district
level health facilities such as hospitals, health centers and sub-health centers, including remote and isolated
areas.
The sub-component includes,
(a) Methodologies (Curricula Development, Competency-Based Training, Case Studies and
Quality Assurance)
(b) Learning Resource Centers
(c) Sister School Linkages
(d) Distance Learning Approaches and Networking
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation
C. 1.1 Methodologies. The project would finance activities including: (i) upgrading educational training
methods practiced by in-service trainers (including widyaiswara) or pre-service teaching staff in
management, clinical and technical areas through short term and long term training and fellowships as well
as study tours; (ii) rehabilitating and equipping hospital and field-based learning resource centers for
teacher demonstration and student practice; (iii) foreign and national technical consultants to provide
supplemental teaching staff with critical skills; (iv) developing district training teams for more
decentralized clinic-based teaching; linking remote health sub-centers with communication systems; (v)
establishing educational information networks; (vi) developing curricula and preparing course materials;
and (vi) using various strategies for conducting workshops and training courses for on-the-job skill
development, including quality assurance systems and distance learning.
Short term studies will be supported to increase knowledge and skill levels for a range of technical
subjects and teaching methods. English language training, computer skills, adult learning and teaching
methods, use of various audio-visual aids equipment, and various clinical/technical updates will be
included.
Long term training and fellowships within the country and abroad are needed to upgrade the
qualifications of sufficient numbers of teachers and educators. Some technical assistance will be selected
from sister schools. Others will be selected through recruitment for individual programs.
Team work and team development will be important at the provincial and district levels. To assure
best use of resources and coordination, provincial and district training teams with representatives from both
pre-service and in-service will meet periodically to plan, develop programs and review progress.
C. 1.2 Learning Resource Centers. Learning resource centers will be developed within selected district
offices, hospitals, educational institutions or training centers (Bapelkes) and concentrate an array of
learning materials (books, journals, video and audio tapes, training modules/packages, computer
equipment) that can be accessed by teachers, trainers, clinical role models, supervisors and students. LRCs
will provide educational materials (translated into Bahasa Indonesia), resources and networks for English
language training and competency-based training for technical/clinical education for doctors, nurses,
midwives and other paramedical staff. LRCs will also cater to educational training needs of various levels



31
of managers. LRCs will be a meeting ground for health professionals to discuss educational methodology
such as learning needs assessments, course or curriculum development and implementation as well as
evaluation. Learning needs assessment would involve utilization of standard appraisal tools and
observations to assess health providers practice as within a quality assurance model. Support includes
infrastructure for LRC, health information and ties to the network system.
C. 1.3 Sister Schools. Sister schools and twinning are mechanisms to broaden understanding of how
programs in various educational institutions are designed and managed. Since different institutions (within
Indonesia and abroad) are likely to have different characteristics and procedures for preparing students,
organizational linkages with sister schools can advance understanding and create pathways for change.
Sister schools can be within the province, for example SPK linked to Akper, across provinces, or
between countries. Linkages can be defined and modified with increasing experience. A variety of
possibilities for twinning or sister school linkages for nursing and midwifery include:
(a) study tours;
(b) exchange of teaching or administrative faculty;
(c) exchange of graduate level students for established or customized courses or fieldwork;
(d) technical assistance for educational methodology, program or curriculum development, and
learning material preparation i(for continuity and efficiency); and
(e) strengthening learning resource centers/facilities in hospitals, health centers or other sites for
practical training.
Once decisions are made as to what sister school arrangements would be most advantageous, a
structure program of attachment can be drawn up. In the project, linkages with sister schools within
Indonesia and in other countries will be developed to assist in the process of conversion from SPK to
academy level (for nursing and/or midwifery) and to provide and improve the technical assistance
efficiency and role models for upgrading instruction and instructional facilities. Sister schools would link
programs involving visiting faculty, joint course development, fellowships, and learning materials
adaptation.
C. 1.4 Distance Learning and Networking. Distance learning approaches will be supported in terms of
technically appropriate methods for the targeted learner population from the simplest level of printed
learning materials to computer-based server sites and radio medic sets. The linkage of health service
providers in rural or remote areas with provincial and district specialists will help reinforce technical skills
and networking. Differences across provinces will be taken into account as well as the cost-effectiveness of
a range of learning options available for service providers. Supplies of equipment and training in effective
use will be funded. Networking, in various forms, will be supported from focused professional meetings to
user-friendly (and widely accessible) computer-based learning and Internet systems.
C. 1.5 Monitoring and Evaluation. EssenLtial to program success is the capability of monitoring and
evaluating changes/outcomes resulting from project inputs. Some studies are planned at various stages of
the project. The extent to which operations research can be introduced into educational institutions and
health service settings will be an important achievement as professionals develop leadership ability.
Measuring the utility of distance learning and learning resource center methodologies will be important
because little in the way of evaluation of learning has been accomplished to date.



32
Training courses and workshops will have built-in measures to determine short and medium term
results achieved both regarding the process of training, competencies gained and content learned. Quality
assurance programs will measure changes in clinical performance and supervisory capability.
Sub-component C.2  Strengthen Training Institutions
The institutions that provide pre-service and in-service education have important roles in providing
and maintaining the quality of health personnel and the quality of their practice. This sub-component
would strengthen training institutions to support increased quality of training.
Strengthening involves upgrading pre-service institutions for nurses, midwives and selected other
paramedical groups and the capacity to respond to increased demands for improving quality of health care
professional staff. This will be accomplished by increasing the clinical skills of teaching staff and the
management skills of managers in various work settings as well as increasing the numbers of more highly
qualified staff teaching in or graduating from schools and academies.
Support will be given for improvements to:
Bapelkes (Provincial or Regional Training Center)
Nursing and Midwifery Schools and Academies
Multi-Stream Academy Development
Other Training Institutions for Health Professionals
Support will include: (a) upgrading of facilities, teaching and classroom laboratories, libraries and
equipment; (b) comparative study tours across provinces and internationally; (c) technical assistance for
teachers contracted from outside the province; (d) short term and long term training fellowships within the
country and abroad; (e) English language and computer skills training; (f) short term and long term national
and foreign technical assistance; (g) educational information communication networks;( h) workshops for
improving teaching methods, process and evaluation; (i) workshops and training materials development for
management training, quality assurance and clinical/technical skills; and (j) development of institutional
capacity to train nutritionists in the multi-stream academy.
C.2. 1 Bapelkes. Strengthening will include a) the development of physical facilities such as l:ibraries and
classrooms as well as renovations of laboratories for field-work simulation; b) equipment for
learning/teaching materials production and networking communications; and c) short and long term
fellowships to increase the range and skills of teaching capacity of widyaiswara as well as understanding of
quality assurance and competency-based training and d) implementation and evaluation of training
programs/courses for health professionals based on learning needs assessments; e) technical assistance to
build capacity to implement and maximize use of learning resource centers, develop training materials,
implement competency-based training methodologies, and plan and conduct operations researc]h and
evaluation methodologies. By the end of the project, some of the training courses provided by the Bapelkes
should be of a high enough standard to be accredited.
At the provincial level, in-service education is mainly the responsibility of provincial training
institutions called Bapelkes. Staff, called Widyaiswara, are responsible for implementing training modules
prepared by the central level Pusdiklat. This project shifts responsibility for identifying learning needs and
developing training materials and workshops mainly to the provinces.



33
Widyaiswara, traditionally have been honorary positions given to well-respected professionals who
were approaching retirement age. In this pro.ject, Bapelkes staff will be strengthened by recruiting and
adding greater numbers of younger widyaiswara who will be given additional training in educational
methods such as case studies and competency-based training approaches.
C.2.2. SPK and Academies. Each project province will undertake somewhat different activities with respect
to upgrading of teaching institutions of SPK and Academies for nurses and midwives. In the second year,
Central Java plans to convert two SPK (Depkes Kariadi and Depkes Klaten) to midwifery academies. They
will also convert 5 SPK (D. Surakarta, D. Purwokerto, and D. Pekalongan to nursing academies in the
second year. In year three, D. Blora and D. Magelang will be converted. The Semarang Academy of
Nursing will also be improved.
In the second year, Central Kalimantan will upgrade and maintain two SPK in Sampit and Kapuas
and the SPK in Palanka Raya. It will convert the SPK in Palanka Raya to Academy by the end of the third
year. Recruitment from outside of the province will be an important strategy for Central Kalimantan to
establish a suitable number of qualified teaching staff. The concept of developing networking among SPKs
to open two-way communication on subject matters such as curriculum development and for problem
solving will be a feature within this province.
Beginning in the second year, South Sulawesi will prepare and upgrade 2 SPK (D. Wajo and D.
Gowa) to nursing academies. The province will need to pay special attention to developing district
capability in Wajo because they have a class #3 hospital which may not provide all the learning experiences
necessary for a DIII academy.
Activities:
1. Develop action plans.
2. Review and revise curricula based on competency need profiles.
3. Select and phase teachers for short and long term fellowships.
4. Determine facility upgrade schedule.
5. Order equipment, books, journals based on advice from local and foreign sister schools.
6. Review accreditation criteria in relation to institution.
7. Conduct workshops and studies.
8. Develop memoranda of understanding with clinical facility sites.
Upgrading educational institutions for nurses and midwives will involve a set of phased activities
which will begin with development of action plans. Plans will consider feasibility and scope for required
improvements in strengthening or converting institutions. They will also set priorities in light of anticipated
accreditation criteria and characteristics identified through sister school activities and relationships.
Curricula will be revised to incorporate competency-based training methods with measurable levels of
knowledge and skill. Teaching skills will be upgraded through new recruitment and through fellowships
and technical assistance. Clinical practice sites will be improved through the development of memoranda of
understanding with hospitals and health centers and by the creation of better clinical teaching units, clinical
practice models, and field-based learning sites.
Library improvements would increase the size of the room and the seating, study, and carrel space
for students, the learning materials available in English and Bahasa, and their accessibility. Video and
audio-tapes and computers would also be available for student use.



34
C.2.3 Multistream Academy. As an efficiency mechanism for developing adequate numbers of different
types of health care provider, Central Kalimantan will develop a multi-stream academy. The concept will
share the basic curriculum in sciences and resources across three groups, nursing, midwifery and nutrition.
In the final year, each specialty would be stressed in curriculum subjects.
Activities will be to a) complete a profile study of competencies required by each of the three
professions; b) develop the curricula with shared and separate subjects using technical assistance for
methodology and organization development; c) develop a learning program for field and clinical study; d)
conduct workshops and seminars.
Nursing would be developed within the Academy by the end of the second year as would
midwifery. Nutrition education would be added in the fourth year meaning that the multistream academy
would be completely developed by that time.
C.2.4 Other Paramedical Academies
South Sulawesi will strengthen the physical facilities of their academies for sanitarians,
physiotherapists, nutritionists and dentists by upgrading classroom laboratories (practice workshops) and
providing language training.
Component D: Provincial Project Management (Total base costs = US$ 3.0 million).
The project would support consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops and
supervision, for project administration and management of technical implementation at the province level.
The structure of province project management is given in Annex 2 Attachment 1.
II. Central Components
Component E: Build Central Support for Health Professionals (Total base costs = US$ 4.2 million).
This component will provide assistance to build the central level capacity to support provinces in
taking on new responsibilities for decentralized functions and in carrying out the project objectives. The
central component also supports the improvement of the environment to build the quality of health
professional practices and training. The share of project resources for the central component is modest
because the emphasis of the project is on decentralization, and provincial, local and private sector
development of human resources.
Sub-component E.1. Strengthen Planning Capacity and Technical Support.
This component will support development of strategic work force planning and management,
develop technical support for selected national level training programs, and strengthen national professional
associations.
E.1.1. Planning Capacity. This sub-component will strengthen the capacity of the MOH (and its
supporting agencies for health personnel and training) to analyze and adjust policies governing the
distribution, quality and performance, training, education and career development of health professionals
employed in public service. Inputs would be technical assistance, training abroad for key staff, studies,
workshops, and development of technical capacity for analysis (computers, data management,
communications).



35
Activities:
(a)    Conducting annual national/provincial workshops to create a forum for cross project collaboration
and networking that relates to overall implementation experience as well as discussion about
specific sub-components;
(b)    Coordination and planning of national activities required to support provincial projects including
the further development of accreditation systems for all health teaching and service institutions,
development of an umbrella format for sister relationships with selected foreign universities and
schools that conduct nursing and midwifery education;
(c)    Promoting networks that link the activities of the project with various DEPKES departments with
responsibility for related programs such as quality assurance in hospitals, health centers, and public
health services by doctors, nurses and midwives.
(d)    Support studies to provide feedback, formulate strategic inputs for policy making, and pursue a
better quality and innovative health service. The area of studies would cover the three piers of
health manpower system -- planning, management, and production (training). Some of the studies
would examine the future requirement of health professionals, the preference of health
professionals regarding employment post, the best teaching-learning method for specific targets.
E.l1.2. Data Management and Analysis. This activity will support the development of an efficient, user
friendly, and integrated data management system for health professionals. The objective is to increase the
availability of, and access to, data on health professionals for good planning and personnel management.
Data on the numbers of health professionals as well as types, basic and advanced educational preparation,
work experience and performance, position, promotions, and desired options --- all are useful for
management decision-making.
The central level agencies will worJk closely with Central Java (as the project province that is most
advanced in health professional data management) to develop and test a compatible system and to transfer
results to the other two provinces to support project information needs. The objective will be to develop a
uniform or compatible system suitable for adoption across provinces.
E. 1.3. Technical Support. This sub-component will assist central technical capacity to support the
innovations and training activities in the provincial components. This would be done consistently with the
decentralization theme of the project by implementing project activities at the province level with technical
support from the center. The objective will require detailed familiarity, by designated central staff, with
provincial plans and regular communication and interaction with the project provinces. It will also require
direct technical support or assistance with arrangements for obtaining national or foreign technical
assistance for selected activities such as curriculum and course design activities that cut across the three
provinces. This represents a shift from the previous centralized top down arrangements to province driven
actions.
Central level staff can play a key role in leading the national level changes, such as those required
in legislation and statutory regulation for health professionals, and assist project provinces with guidance,
planning or technical assistance critical to efficiency and effectiveness of implementation.



36
Some specific areas where central technical support is required include
(a) design and guidance for implementation of the DSP;
(b) development of guidelines for use in recruitment and performance incentive systems;
(c) establishing baselines and other measures as utilization indicators and carrying out monitoring and
evaluation;
(d) design issues in using block grants (design issues may require discussion with MOF, MOHA,
Bappenas, and Menpan);
(e) quality assurance system development and monitoring.
Sub-component E.2. Improve the Professional Environment.
E.2. 1. Development of Regulation, Licensing and Accreditation.
The objective of this sub-component is to advance the development of legislation, regulatory bodies
and procedures for (a) licensing and controlling the practice of individuals within key health professional
groups (physicians, nurses, midwives) and (b) accreditation of training institutions.
Licensing. Licensing and regulation of all health professionals has yet to be made universal or to function
as a means of quality control of health professional practice. After licensing and regulation systems are in
place, the process for on-going certification of current individual practitioners will need to be addressed.
Accreditation. A functional national system for accreditation and regulation of training institutions is
required to achieve quality of programs, upgrading of curricula and resources to defined levels or standards.
Activities to be supported include:
(a) Technical assistance, workshops, study tours develop national level systems for licensing and
regulation as well as institutional accreditation;
(b) Development of collaborative systems with corresponding professional bodies, councils or associations
in other countries;
(c) Information dissemination to health professional groups throughout the project areas.
E.2.2. Strengthen National Professionals Associations. The component will support the further
development of national professionals associations, as a means of establishing cohesiveness, networking,
technical support, innovation, and achieving quality of health professional practices. The national
associations would contribute to the development of policy and provide support for local and provincial
associations.
Among the important functions associations can provide for their members are organization of
programs of in-service education; advice on the development and on-going quality of pre-service education;
handling of complaints from patients against their members, and support of government formulation of
policy. National level professional associations could be of particular use in assisting the Govermment to
further define (a) accreditation and accreditation procedures for health professional educational and service
institutions, (b) registration of individual practitioners and assistance to members in maintaining certifiable
licenses.



37
Activities:
(a) Specification of specific action plans for strengthening professional associations.
(b) Provision of offices and essential equipment for communication, networking and desk top publishing;
(c) Fellowships and work study tours for members to increase understanding of professional association
functions and to develop feasible plans of operation for the short and medium term;
(d) Operations research or studies to document professional practice status and changes over time;
(e) Seminars, workshops and meetings during two start up years for fledgling organizations.
(f) Development of improved definitions of competency-based practice for each professional group and
implications for in-service and pre-service training.
(g) Development of technical assistance from national groups to provincial association groups especially in
regard to in-service education, quality assurance and competency-based training approaches.
Component F: Central Project Management (Total base costs = US$ 1.5 million).
The project would provide consultant services, office equipment, supplies and modest preparation
of office space for project administration and management of technical implementation. The structure of
project management is given in Annex 2a.



38
Annex 2 Attachment 1
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Project Management Structure and Funds Channeling
This Annex presents a summary of the project management structure for the central level and
project provinces based on detailed descriptions that are available in project documentation. The
summary description is given with reference to the structural diagrams that follow the text. The summary
also provides a succinct statement of the arrangements for funds channeling.
Project Management Structure
Central Level
1. The Secretary General of Depkes acting as Project Director would take responsibility for all aspects of
the program to be implemented under the project. A Steering Committee headed by the Secretary
General and comprising echelon I officials (the DGs for Medical Care and Community Health of MOH,
Regional Development of MOHA, and Deputy for Human Resources Development in Bappenas) and
echelon II officials of the participating units in the project would be formed to provide policy direction
for the project. An Expert Staff to the Minister for Institutionalization and Organization Affairs would be
appointed as Deputy Project Director to run the project management, and would be supported by the
Central Project Secretariat (CPS), which would carry out day to day administrative management of the
project, and a Technical Working Team to provide advice and coordinate technical aspects of the project.
2. A Central Steering Committee has been established to advise the Project Director on program policy
in the project. The committee, chaired by the Secretary General, would be comprised of echelon I (DGs
of Medical Care and Community Health) and echelon II officials (Heads of the Bureaus of Planning and
Personnel, and Heads of the Centers for In-service and Pre-service Training). Periodical meetings would
be established to keep program policy under the project directed toward project objectives.
3. The Project Secretariat covers administration, procurement, financing, and disbursement, planning,
monitoring and evaluation, including reporting of the project activities. The head of the unit is a person
assigned full time and who is qualified and experienced in such job. At least three qualified staff in
administration and procurement, finance and disbursement, and planning, monitoring and evaluation will
be included in the secretariat. A pimbagpro would be attached to the Project Secretariat.
4. The Technical Working Team would consist of staff representing all bureaus and centers involved to
advise deputy project director in technical aspects of project implementation.
5. The heads of the Bureaus of Planning and Personnel, and Centers of In-service and Pre-service
Training (Pusdiklat and Pusdiknakes) would act as Program Coordinators, responsible for coordinating
the implementation of program activities of their units in this project. Pimpros of each technical
component (Bureau of Planning, Personnel, Pusdiklat and Pusdiknakes) would coordinate with the
finance and disbursement staff in the Administrative Unit and coordinate with the project secretariat.
Provincial Level
6. All provinces would involve the Kakanwil (Head, Provincial Health Office) in the position of
Provincial Project Director to be responsible for all program implementation of the project at the province
level.



39
7. A Provincial Steering Committee (SC) would advise the Provincial Project Officer. This Committee
chaired by Sekwilda (Regional Secretary of Governor) would consist of the heads, Provincial Health
Office, Provincial Health Services (Dinas Kesehatan I), Bappeda I, Head, Bureau of Social Affairs of
Governor's office, and heads of units of the Kanwil office involved in the project (for example, the
Program Development and Health Manpower Training divisions, Bapelkes, RSU, academies and schools,
other senior staff of Kanwil and Dinas Kesehatan I, and representatives of professional organizations).
The SC would also include the Kakendeps from project districts. The SC would provide a forum for
coordination to keep the project activities directed towards the project objectives.
8. A Deputy Provincial Director headed by an a project coordinator (this position would be held by the
Administrative Coordinator or by the head of the Program Development Division) would assist the
Kakanwil in carrying out coordination and direction. The Deputy Project Directors would also provide
day to day project supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and would be responsible for project
implementation.
9. In the project provinces, Project Implementation Units (PIU) have been established in the Kanwil to
coordinate daily management activities, such as administration, procurement, finance, disbursement,
planning, monitoring, evaluation and including reporting activities of the project implementation. The
secretarys are appointed on a full time basis assignment. They are qualified and experienced in such
jobs. The PIU includes at least three experienced staff to handle the basic work of administration and
procurement, finance and disbursement and planning, monitoring and evaluation. This is especially
important for the effective implementation in the provinces, particularly for Central Kalimantan and
South Sulawesi, which have fewer experiences in dealing with World Bank projects. A pimbagpro would
be attached to the provincial project secretariat.
10. The pimpro of the units and institutions at the provincial levels would coordinate with the project
secretariat through the Deputy Project Director.
11. A technical working group would be formed . The head of the Program Development Divisions
would chair the group to back up the Project Directors in technical aspects of the project activities. The
group would consist of technical staff from the divisions (of program development, health manpower),
and units or institutions (Bapelkes, academies and schools) participating in this project. A group of both
international and domestic consultants could also be hired to advise the deputy project directors. The
Heads of divisions of the Kanwil, and participating institutions would function to provide technical policy
guidance in project implementation.
District Level
12. At the district levels there would be a simpler organization. The Dokabu (Head, District Health
Services) would be assigned as District Project Directors. The project directors would be assisted by an
implementation group staffed by officials from the program units and institutions participating in the
project. District level pimpros would coordinate with district project directors.
Funds Channeling
13. Funds would be channeled through the sectoral development budget (DIPs) of the respective units,
division and institution. At the Central Level there would be four DIPs of (i) Proyek-Pendaya-Gunaan
Tenaga Kesehatan (Health Manpower utilization Project-Bureau of Personnel), (ii) Proyek Perencanaan



40
Umum Kesehatan (General Health Planning Project-Bureau of Planning), (iii) Proyek Pendidikan Tenaga
Kesehatan (Health Manpower Education Project- Pusdinakes), (iv) Proyek Pendidikan dan Pelatihan
Pegawai (Health Personnel Education and Training Project-Pusdiklat). Pimpros of these projects would
coordinate with Central Project Secretariat. Budget for the CPS would be allocated in the Proyek
Perenecanaan Umum or Proyek Pendayagunaan Tenaga Kesehatan depending on the leading unit of the
project. However, the pimbapro would be attached to the CPS.
14. At the Provincial Level funds would be channeled through DIPs of (i) Provincial Proyek
Perencanaan (Program Development Division) for project management, (ii) Provincial Proyek
Pendidikan Tenaga Kesehatan (Health Manpower Education Project) for pre-service division, academies
and schools, (iii) Provincial Proye'k Pendidikan dan Pelatihan Pegawai (in-service training) for Bapelkes.
These units would be the channel for annual project implementation, while the pimbagpro of teaching
institutions (e.g. schools and academies) would manage the annual budget of the institutions.
15. At the Kabupaten Level, the funds will be handled by the pimbagpro of the provincial health
manpower project. They would be especially appointed and be responsible for utilization of special funds
for the project. Institutions (Schools and Bapelkes) located in the district would have their own channels
through pimpro or pimbagpros of Health Manpower Education and Bapelkes.



41
INDONESIA: FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT DIAGRAM
Central
Central                    |Proiect Director|
|Steering Committeel               Sertr=eea
Deputy
Technical                                                  Project
Working Team                                               Secretariat
Pimbagpro.
Program                Program                          Program                     Program
Coordinator I          Coordinator IL                  Coordinator III.            Coordinator IV
Head, Planning        Head, Personnel                  Head, Pusdiklat.            Head, Pusdinakes
Bureau                 Bureau                                          _                    P
Pimpro.              Pimpro.
Provincial                                     Province
Steering                   Proiect Director
Committee                 Director, Provincial,
Health. Office
Deputy
Project Director
Technical                                                    Project
Working Group                                                  Secretariat
*           | ~~~Pimbagpro|
........................ ...
|Pimpro ||Pinmpro ||Pimpro|
District                                      District
Project Manager
.   .
Implementing
group                 Pimbagpro



42
Annex 3
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Estimated Project Cost By Project Component
Project Components                              Local   Foreign    Total
--- US$ million
I. Province Components
A. Improve Efficiency of Utilization & Equity of Distrib. of Health Prof.
1. Improve Personnel Planning & Management                             2.4       3.3        5.7
2. Innovations in Staff Deployment & Productivity                       4.9       2.9       7.8
Subtotal Improve Effic. of Util. & Equity of Dist. of Health Prof.       7.3       6.2       13.5
B. Improve Quality of Health Professional Practices
1. Strengthen Regulatory System for Health Professionals                1.0      0.3        1.3
2. Strengthen Professional Associations                                 1.0       0.3       1.3
3. Promote Quality Assurance                                            1.1       0.7       1.8
Subtotal Improve Quality of Health Professional Practices                3.1        1.3       4.4
C. Improve Quality of Health Professional Training
1. Improve Training Methods & Programs                                 4.7       4.0        8.7
2. Strengthen Training Institutions                                    3.9        6.2      10.1
Subtotal Improve Quality of Health Professional Training                 8.6       10.2      18.8
D. Project Management                                                    2.4       0.6        3.0
Subtotal Province Components                                               21.4      18.3      39.7
_H. Central Component
El. Strengthening Planning Capacity & Technical Support
1. Planning Capacity                                                   1.1       0.6        1.7
2. Data Management & Analysis                                           0.2       0.0       0.2
3. Technical Support                                                   0.3        0.4       0.7
Subtotal Strengthening Planning Capacity & Technical Support             1.6        1.0      2.6
E2. Improve the Professional Environment
1. Develop Regulation, Licensing & Accreditation                       0.2       0.6        0.8
2. Strengthen Professional Associations                                 0.6       0.2       0.8
Subtotal Professional Environment                                        0.8       0.8        1.6
F. Project Management                                                    0.9       0.6        1.5
Subtotal Central Component                                                 3.3       2.4       5.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                       24.7      20.7      45.4
Physical Contingencies                                                    1.1       1.0       2.1
Price Contingencies                                                      7.7        1.0       8.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        33.5      22.7      56.2



43
Annex 3
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category
Expenditure Category                            Local   Foreign    Total
US$ million
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Work                                                          2.3        1.2       3.5
B. Equipment                                                           2.0        2.4       4.4
C. Furniture                                                           0.2        0.1       0.3
D. Material                                                            0.6        0.2       0.8
E. Vehicle                                                             0.6         -        0.6
F. Technical Assistance                                                1.3        1.5       2.8
G. Service Contractors                                                 0.7        1.9       2.6
H. Studies and Research                                                2.1         -        2.1
I. Local Fellowships, Workshops and Training
1. Local Fellowships                                                 3.6         -        3.6
2. Workshop                                                           3.3       1.1       4.4
3. Training                                                          2.7        0.8       3.5
Subtotal Local Fellowships, Workshops and Training                   9.6        1.9       11.5
J. Overseas Fellowships                                                 -         9.9       9.9
K. Deployment Innovations                                               1.5       1.3       2.8
L. Project Administration                                               1.1       0.3       1.4
Total Investment Costs                                                   22.0      20.7      42.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                                            0.8         -        0.8
B. Materials & Supplies                                                0.1         -        0.1
C. Maintenance & Repair                                                0.2         -        0.2
D. Travel & Supervision                                                0.8         -        0.8
E. Operational Support                                                 0.8         -        0.8
Total Recurrent Costs                                                    2.7        -         2.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     24.7      20.7       45.4
Physical Contingencies                                                 1.1        1.0       2.1
Price Contingencies                                                    7.7        1.0       8.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      33.5      22.7       56.2



44
Annex 4
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Economic Analysis
The economic analysis covers the following: (i) linkage to CAS, (ii) benefits, (iii)
rationale for public sector investment in health professionals, (iv) risks, (v) incentive alternatives,
and (vi) poverty assessment. The project's fiscal impact and sustainability are discussed in
Annex 5.
I. Linkage to CAS
The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated July
10, 1997 (16691 -IND). The CAS emphasizes three areas that are directly addressed in the
project: greater decentralization though increased autonomy and accountability, increasing
efficiency and productivity in the public and private sectors, and enhancing equitable
development.
Decentralization is a central theme of the project and the project includes components
that will build management capacity and assist with institutional change to support
decentralization and greater autonomy in the training and deployment of professional health
personnel. The project will support increased efficiency and productivity in the public and
private health sectors through the development of a regulatory framework for health
professionals and training institutions, improved infrastructure services and public sector
efficiency in dense urban and remote rural areas, improved planning of health human resources,
and adopting training and treatment methodologies to improve service quality. Finally, the
project will enhance equitable development by promoting greater access to skilled health
professionals for the urban poor and in remote rural areas.
II. Benefits
Project benefits in the forn of improved health status and consumer satisfaction derive
from the higher quality of health professionals that will be made available to the health system
through training, an improved regulatory framework, and improved deployment. The project will
improve health status through increased quality of care in a wide range of health facilities,
including health centers, public hospitals, and private practices. The project will also improve
the health status of rural and poor populations through more efficient deployment and utilization
of staff in delivering both curative and preventive services.
The overall effect on health status of improved quality of health professionals is likely to
be modest because the total impact of health services on health status is the product of many
factors of which the human resource inputs to be affected by the project are just one. However,
human resources, and technological change embodied in training, are one of the most important
determinants of the total impact of the system on health status.
This analysis examines whether the value of possible benefits is worth the cost of the
project under conservative assumptions of project impact. The benefits derive from (a) an
increase in the proportion of the population using health services from improved deployment and
the attraction of improved quality, (b) an improvement in the quality (i.e. effectiveness) of
specific services from the targeted competency based training linked to quality assurance, (c) an



45
improvement in the general quality of services from the regulatory framework, strengthened
professional associations and improved capacity for quality training.
Table 1 provides a list of the nine basic disease groups that are the target of a plausible
quality assurance (QA) and competency based training (CBT) program. The disease groups
include the basic areas or health conditions targeted by the Fourth Health Project quality
assurance program and by the Safe Motherhood Project. The table gives an estimate of the
annual years of healthy life lost (from mortality, morbidity and disability) from these nine
categories and also provides an estimate of the total healthy life years lost from all causes per
thousand people in the project provinces. (The table is approximate, the underlying parameters
are derived from the 1993 World Development Report Other Asia model).
Table 1: Burden of Disease from Priority Disease Groups for target of Quality Assurance
and Competency Based Training
Priority Disease Group                   Healthy Years of Life Lost
Per 1000 Population
Childhood Immunization Diseases & Diarrhea                     33
Acute Respiratory Disease                                      30
Maternal Conditions                                            14
Selected Female Cancers (Breast and Cervix)                    3
Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HIV                          6
Tuberculosis                                                   12
Malaria                                                         4
Ischemic Heart, Lung Cancer, Cardiovascular                    16
Accidents                                                      11
Sub-total of Target Groups                129
Other                                                          130
Total                  259
Compared to the estimated loss of 259 years per thousand in the project area, OECD
countries lose an estimated 117 years per thousand. The difference of 142 healthy years is
attributable to many things in addition to the better quality of health services in OECD countries
- better nutrition, water and sanitation, and housing, and differences in life style, education, and
population age distribution. It is assumed that health services, including preventive care and
health education, contribute to only 20 percent of the difference. Thus the maximum potential
effect of health services is about 28 healthy years per thousand people. This difference could
only be achieved with extraordinary resources and a replication of OECD quality of services. In
actuality, the improvement from any one program would be much more modest.
There is no precise way of measuring the potential benefits from the project under
consideration but it is possible to evaluate a modest change in healthy life years that could
plausibly be attributed to the quality improvements in the project and compare the possible
benefit with the cost of the project. Project benefits in the form of increased healthy life accrue to
three categories of the population in each province: population increasing their use of the
modem health system, health services users that will now benefit from the targeted QA & CBT
program, and the remaining population of users that will benefit from the higher quality of
general services but not specifically from services targeted at the priority diseases groups.



46
To provide an illustrative rate of return from the project, it is assumed that, for people
who use the system, the improved quality will increase healthy life years by 5 percent of the gap
between the project area and OECD countries in the priority disease groups, and by 2.5 percent in
the other groups. In addition, it is assumed that healthy life years will be increased by 1 percent
of the gap with a 5 percent increase in use of services. Under these assumptions the total annual
gain in healthy life years from the completed project would be 40,000. To obtain a monetary
value to compare with project expenditures a healthy year of life is valued at the net national
product per capita. Using a value of US$ 1090 per capita, the value of the estimated gain of
healthy years of life in one year from the completed project would be greater than US$ 40
million.
Using the project disbursement profile and estimated recurrent costs for the project to
provide the pattern of cost over time, and assuming the project benefits on health status are
negligible in the first two years of the project and 25%, 50% and 75% in the third, fourth and fifth
years of the project, and then 100% thereafter through a ten year time horizon after project
completion, the internal rate of return (IRR) can be calculated. The IRR for the overall project is
45 percent. The IRR for Central Java is 99 percent; South Sulawesi, 28 percent; and Central
Kalimantan, 4 percent.
m. Rationale for Public Sector Investment in Health Professionals
The rational for public sector investment in health professionals comes from an
interaction of a public welfare loss caused by the inequitable availability of socially acceptable
quality services and failures in both the markets for professional services and training.
Welfare Loss. The welfare loss is created by (a) the lack of available services in remote areas and
(b) the low quality of services available to the poor. It is estimated that, of the 39 million total
population in the project areas, 9 million are without access to acceptable quality services. The
primary reason for the lack of access is the unavailability of well trained health personnel --
nurses, doctors and midwives.
In the past, the Government has sought to reduce the public welfare loss to rural health
services customers by compulsory contracting with the PTT doctors. This, in effect reduced the
consumer welfare loss by shifting a part of the loss to the PTT doctors. The project would seek
to reduce the PTT doctor welfare loss by using incentive schemes to induce health professionals
to work or set up practices in under served areas.
Market Failures. The employment market failures resulting in inadequate development of
private services and inequitable deployment of health professionals in rural areas come from (a)
lack of consumer information on effectiveness of health system for their needs, (b) lack of
incentive to provide quality training in an unregulated market, (c) lack of a capital market to
assist private practices in rural areas, (d) lack of health professional information on how to set up
a private practice or contract for services. Market failures in training include (a) imperfect labor
markets -- (i) health professionals can not recover the full cost of high quality training and
therefore acquire less skills than are needed to achieve public welfare objectives and (ii) private
training institutions can not recover the full cost of high quality training and therefore offer a
lower quality of training than is socially desired, (b) in-service training is transferable and the
market for employment is not competitive -- neither the worker nor the firm has sufficient
incentive for training, (c) credit markets are insufficient to provide students or workers with



47
funds to secure acceptable quality training, (d) high quality training for health professionals
requires high quality teachers but the training system lacks the capacity to produce the needed
quality trainers -- because there are so ifew high quality trainers the training market for health
professionals is locked in a cycle of continued low quality.
IV. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
Project risks are primarily institutional and are created by (a) the difficulty of
decentralizing management and budgeting, (b) untested use of incentives and deployment
schemes, and (c) the challenge of developing an effective regulatory framework (licensing and
accreditation). The institutional risks are noted in the body of the PAD. The economic
implications of these risks are that the project may fail to reach the estimated benefits because the
institutional and implementation risks will prevent achievement of the assumed levels of project
effectiveness.
To examine the risks, simulations were conducted of the response of project benefits, as
calculated in the benefit section above, to a range of the parameters representing project effects.
For example problems in decentralizing management and budgeting could prevent the effective
adoption of the QA and CBT programs in local pre-service and in-service training. In terms of
the benefit simulation, this would be represented by a failure to achieve the effectiveness of the
targeted program assumed in section I above. Similarly, failure to develop an effective
regulatory framework and other general quality aspects of the project could prevent the project
from having the assumed general effect. Finally, failure to develop effective deployment
innovations, as well as the failure to develop perceived increases in quality, would hinder the
achievement of the targeted increase in health system use.
The sensitivity of the project is examined with respect to a range of values of the
parameters. It is found that the results are most sensitive to the parameter setting the
effectiveness of the QA target program. If the QA program is not effective the IRR for the
project falls to 16 and the IRR is negative in South Sulawesi and Central Kalimantan. Lowering
the three simulation parameters simultaneously by the same proportion it is found that the
switching value beyond which the IRR is negative would come at moderately low yet possible
values of the three parameters for the simulation given the significant institutional risks in the
project. The project internal rate of return is 0 when the parameters are 25 percent of the initially
assumed values.
The sensitivity analysis is difficult to conduct and interpret given the imprecision of the
simulation assumptions. The analysis suggests, however, that economically satisfactory outcome
will require careful project administration and supervision as well as strong government support
for the institutional changes being supported by the project.
V. Incentive Alternatives
A number of alternatives were examined for achieving the demand side objectives in the
deployment and incentives component of the project. As part of the project background a study
of the response of medical doctors to alternative incentives for locating in remote and very
remote areas was undertaken [Chomitz et al, 1997]. The results of the study are intended to
guide the development of policy during the implementation part of the project. The results are
summarized in a table of compensating differentials for location of PTT doctors relative to



48
Jakarta using various kinds of incentives such as added salary, specialist training on completion
of contracts, higher probabilities of civil service employment, and private practices. The results
suggest that incentive payments for very remote service of the order of Rp 1 to 1.5 million per
month (mid 1997 prices) would be sufficient to attract the median outer island male medical
graduate. For a three year service contract this is less expensive from the government's point of
view, than the cost of paying for specialist training as an incentive (as is currently done). Cash
incentives for Javan graduates, however, would be more expensive than training. The results, do,
however, illustrate that it is not necessary to offer a civil service appointment, in addition to
specialist training, as a location inducement. Importantly, the preference results emphasize the
much greater willingness of people from the outer islands to serve in remote and very remote
locations. This suggests very substantial gains to increasing the representation of outer island
students in medical schools. During the first year of the project a similar study will be conducted
to ascertain the location preferences of nurses and midwives.
VI. Poverty Assessment
This section provides an estimate of the benefit incidence of the project by income group.
Each of the three major aspects of the project benefits -- (a) the QA and competency based
training for priority disease targets, (b) the deployment and location changes to improve equity,
and (c) the overall quality enhancement from new training methods, improved regulation and
decentralization -- will have different effects on the different levels of facilities in the health
system.
Depending on the relative facility
use by income group, there will be a                 Distribution of Project Impact by
use by                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Expenditure Group
differential incidence in the effects of the              E    d     G
three aspects. An assumed matrix of effects      so -0
of the three aspects of the project on            80 -
70      - - - - - - -
services delivered through four different         S.
levels of health services was derived from                     '
the probable employment of new pre-service       40 ----                  ----------
-Ml Hd01
graduates and the service level targets of the    o          /--------
training programs in the project.                 20        /PHC
Information on the use of these four             10          --
categories of health services by income            0 10 20 30 40 50 eo 70 80 s0 100
decile (based on circa 1990 unpublished                      % of Population
SUSENAS data) then allows the derivation
of a "Lorenz" curve summarizing the benefit incidence by income decile for the project. The
figure presents the benefit incidence for the project and compares it with the distribution of
benefits from all health services, hospitals and primary health care (PHC).
The analysis suggests that the project benefits are distributed more equitably than all
hospital services and much more equitably than the general income distribution. The project does
not have the dramatic redistribution effect of the benefits from general PHC services, however.
This is expected from the general impact of the project on service quality. A small but significant
part of the project effects will inevitably accrue to secondary and tertiary facilities used
disproportionately by upper income groups. However, by far the largest part of project benefits
will accrue to middle and lower income groups and have the intended social welfare effects.



49
Annex 5
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Fiscal Analysis
This analysis examines the fiscal burden of the project during implementation and the
sustainability of the project after completion in the face of an expected decline in the real
Government budget over the next few years.
L. History
A budget decline over the next several years would not be unprecedented. There was
also a dramatic fall in government budget during the decline in oil prices and rising burden of
external debt service that occurred in the middle 1980s. From 1982/83 to 1987/88 the real level
of Central Government health expenditures fell by over 40 percent to the levels of the late 1970s.
The level of health expenditures was defended moderately and did not fall by the full percentage
of the general budget but, nevertheless, fell sufficiently that selected development programs had
to be slowed and routine expenditures prioritized across tertiary, secondary and primary care.
Figure 1: Government Health Expenditures
2200 -          (All levels, Rp. Billions, 1993 Prices)
2000
1800 -
1600 -
1400-
1200 -
1000 -
800
FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95
In a two year period, from 1986/87 to 1988/89 the total government health expenditures across all
levels of government fell by almost 20 percent. Figure 2 illustrates the negative growth rate of
government health expenditures in the mid 1980s and also illustrates the year to year rate of
budget increase during the recovery in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Figure 2: Growth Rate in Government Health Expenditures,
30ff/o                 1984-85-93/94
S 2 0 %   -     -   - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -- - - - -
-1%84 85  85/8 /87 /88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93 94
-20%
Year



50
II. Fiscal Implications
The mid 1980s downturn, followed by strong budgetary growth in the early 1990s,
provides a pattern for the alternative fiscal scenarios to be faced in the project. The implications
for project implementation and sustainability from 1998 to 2003 and sustainability from 2004 are
examined under best, moderate and worst case scenarios. The analysis is done for the aggregate
health budgets over the three project provinces. In each scenario the budget burden of the
project during implementation is estimated as the total counterpart budget required as a percent of
the projected health budget. The burden after implementation is estimated as the recurrent
expenditures required to sustain the project as a percent of the projected health budget.
During appraisal in April 1998, the project was altered to produce a minimum
counterpart burden and reduce the recurrent costs. In the first 18 months of the project the
counterpart burden will be further minimized by focusing primarily on activities using
expenditure categories with 100 percent loan financing.
Best Case Scenario. This scenario assumes that the health budgets fall by twenty percent in the
first year of the project followed by zero growth in the second year and a recovery to 5 percent
growth thereafter. Under this scenario, total project counterpart costs, of Rp. 37.8 billion over the
5 year period, account for 0.2% of total health budget in the first year, increase to about 1.2% in
the second year, and then are 2.5% in the third year, 2. 1% in the fourth, and 0. 1.5% in the last
year of the project. In the individual provinces the counterpart burden peaks, in the third year of
the project, at 1.5 percent in Central Java, 10 percent in Central Kalimantan, and 2.5 percent in
South Sulawesi.
The question of sustainability focuses on the ability of the government to maintain the
recurrent costs of the project beyond the fifth year of implementation. Recurrent costs are
estimated to be Rp. 2.7 billion per year following the project and account for less than 3% of the
projected aggregate province health budgets. In the individual provinces the after project
recurrent costs as a percent of the project health budget are 1.6 percent in Central Java, 8 percent
in Central Kalimantan, and 3 percent in South Sulawesi.
Thus, the counterpart burden on the province budgets remains at a manageable level
throughout the implementation period and is sustainable thereafter.
Moderate Case Scenario. This scenario assumes a twenty five percent decline in the health
budget in the first year, a 5 percent decline the second year, zero growth the third year, followed
by a recovery to 5 percent growth in each of the last two years of the project. Under the
moderate scenario, project counterpart costs remain at less than 3 percent of the projected health
budget. In the individual provinces the counterpart burden peaks at 1.6 percent in Central Java,
II percent in Central Kalimantan, and 3 percent in South Sulawesi.
Recurrent costs of the project in the sixth and subsequent years following implementation
are 3% of the projected aggregate province health budgets. In the individual provinces the after
project recurrent cost burden is 2 percent in Central Java, 9.5 percent in Central Kalimantan, and
4 percent in South Sulawesi.
Thus, in the moderate scenario, the counterpart burden on the province budgets remains
at a manageable level throughout the implementation period. Although the counterpart burden



51
increases to over 10 percent in Central Kalimantan, there are currently no other major projects
under implementation in Central Kalimantan and the burden would be manageable.
Worst Case Scenario. The worst case scenario assumes dramatic declines of thirty and twenty
percent, respectively, in the health budget during the first two years of the project then a further
decline of 5 percent in the third year, zero growth in the fourth year, and a recovery to 5% growth
in the last year of the project.
Even in the worst case scenario, project counterpart costs during implementation remain
manageable at less than 4 percent of the projected health budget for the aggregate of the three
project provinces. In the individual provinces the counterpart burden peaks at 2 percent in
Central Java, 15 percent in Central Kalimantan, and 4 percent in South Sulawesi.
Recurrent costs of the project in the sixth and subsequent years following implementation
are 4% of the projected aggregate province health budgets. In the individual provinces the after
project recurrent cost burden is 3 percent in Central Java, 13 percent in Central Kalimantan, and 5
percent in South Sulawesi.
Thus, in the worst scenario the counterpart burden remains at a manageable level
throughout the implementation period, from the point of view of the aggregate project province
budgets. However, in Central Kalimantan the burden will increase to 15 percent in the third year
of implementation and 13 percent during the immediate post project period. This will require a
strong commitment from local Governments in Central Kalimantan, or the Central Government,
during the last three years of the project. Additionally, the sustainability of the project could
require the initiation of modest cost recovery programs. However, any program will need to
protect the poor, who are already severely affected by the economic crisis.
M. Conclusion
It is likely that a structural adjustment will result in a decline in health spending although
by less than the overall decline in the government budget. For all three provinces, the best and
modest case scenarios show that the project will be sustainable if there is continued commitmnent
to the health sector from the provincial governments. The worst case scenario, however, makes
the sustainability of the project more difficult, unless there is further resource mobilization either
through local government or the potential for selective increases in costs recovery in public
facilities. This is especially true for (Central Kalimantan.
In Central Kalimantan, the ratio of total project costs to the health budget is 10 to 15% in
the third and fourth years of the project in the moderate and worse case scenarios. However, the
average growth rate of the health budget from 1989 to 1995 in Central Kalimantan has been the
highest (13 percent per year) of the three provinces. If the commitment from the central and local
governments to the health sector in Central Kalimantan continues, the project will be sustainable
even in the worse case scenario.



52
Table 5: Fiscal Impact of the Project (Billions of Rupiah)
Before                                    After
Project    Project Implementation Period    Project
Year          98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02   02/03  03/04
Project Cost (1997 prices)                   19.6  41.3  50.3  45.1   33.9
Counterpart Burden (1997 Prices)              1.0   5.8  12.1  10.8    8.1   15.2
Best Case Scenario
Govt. Health Budget (1997 prices)    583.5  466.8  466.8  490.7  515.9  542.3  570.1
Real Growth Rate of Budget                    -0.2   0.0  0.05   0.05    0.05   0.05
Total Cost/Health Budget (%/6)                4.2   8.9  10.3   8.9    6.3
Counterpart Burden/Health Budget (%)          0.2    1.2   2.5   2.1    1.5    2.7
Moderate Case Scenario
Govt. Health Budget (1997 prices)    583.5  437.6  415.7  415.7  437.0  459.4  483.0
Real Growth Rate                            -0.25  -0.05    0.0  0.05    0.05   0.05
Total Cost/Health Budget (%)                  4.5   9.9  12.1  10.3    7.4
Counterpart Burden/Health Budget (%/6)        0.2    1.4   2.9   2.5    1.8    3.1
Worst Case Scenario
Govt. Health Budget (1997 prices)    583.5  408.4  326.7  310.4  310.4  326.3  343.0
Real Growth Rate                        -   -0.30  -0.20  -0.05    0.0   0.05   0.05
Total Cost/Health Budget (%)                  4.8   12.6  16.2  14.5   10.4
Counterpart Burden/Health Budget (%)          0.2    1.8   3.9   3.5    2.5    4.4



53
Annex 6
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Loan proceeds will be used to finance procurement of civil works, goods and services.
Procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996 and September 1997), and World Bank Standard Bid Evaluation Forms will be usedfor
evaluation. The World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Goods and Works will be used for ICB.
The procurement of consultant services will follow the Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997) and use the World Bank Standard
Requestfor Proposalfor Selection of Consultants (dated July 1997). All consultant contracts would use
the Bank's standard forms of contracts for consultants.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements, showing the items, their respective cost
estimates and proposed method of procurement.
*  Civil Works (US$ 4.5 million including contingencies). Civil works includes some new
construction as part of rehabilitation as well as major and minor repairs of existing training
facilities. Many of the facilities are dispersed or are in remote locations and construction will be
spread over time depending on a range of factors, so it is unlikely that foreign contractors would
be interested in bidding. There will be no new land acquisition under the project. Contract
packages of US$ 100,000 or more each will be awarded through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Other works contracts costing less than US$ 100,000
will be awarded on the basis of price quotations from three qualified bidders, with district and
province construction firms encouraged to participate. Awards will be based on the lowest
qualified bid. Minor repairs and works may be carried out through force account up to an
aggregate of US$ 600,000 with the Bank's prior agreement. A system of quality assurance will
be introduced during construction, and suitable safeguards for cost control and payment against
performance will be incorporated. Model bid documents prepared in Indonesia, in consultation
with the World Bank office in Jakarta, will be used for NCB that conforms to the Bank's
Guidelines. The Bank's SBD without any change in Indonesian language will be used. Annual
provincial civil works plans will be reviewed and approved each year by the Bank.
*  Equipment, Furniture and Instructional Materials (US$ 6.7 million equivalent including
contingencies). Contract packages of US$ 200,000 or more will be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, or may be procured through UNICEF as the
procurement agent. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a margin of preference in
bid evaluation of 15 percent on the import duty, whichever is less. Contract packages costing
less than US$ 200,000, in an aggregate not exceeding US$ 2.5 million, may be procured through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) acceptable to the Bank; contracts costing less than US$
50,000, up to an aggregate not exceeding US$ 1,600,000, may be procured through national
shopping procedures, with at least three offers from qualified suppliers.



54
*  Vehicles (US$ 0.6 million equivalent including contingencies). The Bank financing would not
be used to purchase vehicles. GOI would provide vehicles for operation of the project.
*  Overseas Fellowships (US$ 11.0 million equivalent including contingencies). Placement of
candidates in foreign institutions would be made on the basis of relevance and quality of
programs offered, cost, and prior experience, according to government procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Contracts costing US$ 100,000 or more will be submitted for Bank review and
approval. Annual plans of training and workshop activities for the Central Level and individual
project provinces would be submitted for Bank review and acknowledgment.
*  Training, including In country Fellowships and Workshops (US$ 15.8 million equivalent
including contingencies). Training contracts would be awarded on the basis of relevance and
quality of programs offered by government or private professional training institutions through
short list selection procedures, according to government administrative procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Annual plans of training and workshop activities for the Central Level and individual
project provinces would be submitted for Bank review and acknowledgment.
*  Consultant Services, Studies, Evaluations, Research (US$ 6.6 million equivalent including
contingencies) will be selected and contracted in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines.
Project-financed consultants would be recruited in accordance with the Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997).
Quality-cost-based-selection (QBCS) will be used for the procurement of consultant services
except for the following activities:
Quality-Based Selection (QBS) (US$ 2.2 million equivalent including contingencies) will
be used for planning and management, development of regulation, and innovative
component assistance where these assignments have highly specialized requirements and
are critical to the down stream achievement of the projects objectives.
Service Delivery Contractors (SC) (US$ 3.1 million equivalent including contingencies)
will be used for training institution and training methodology development. The service
delivery contractors will be selected using QCBS. The contracts will extend for the
duration of the supported project activity with provision for performance review and
renewal on an annual basis during the life of the project.
Individual Consultants (IC) (US$ 200 thousand equivalent including contingenecies) will
be used for the procurement of technical assistance for the implementation of the DSP
staffing deployment activity. The justification for the use of individual consultants is that
only one firm has the experience for the assignment.
* Deployment Innovation (US$ 3.6 million equivalent including contingencies). The
Deployment Innovations (DI) will be used to support innovative activities that could lead to new
policies and programs that would improve the deployment and efficiency of health professionals.
Proposals would be prepared and approved at the province level following agreed guidelines and
submitted for Bank review and acknowledgment. The DI is intended for expenditures needed to
carry out pilot programs and research. Eligible expenditures will be limited to the following
items: office equipment, (including computers), data collection and analysis, training, supplies
and materials, services to assist in design and implementation of deployment innovations,
consultants, travel costs. All contracts of DI activities will be awarded in accordance with
government regulation acceptable to the Bank.



55
Project Administration (US$ 1.9 million equivalent, including contingencies) will include
expenditures directly related to project administration such as travel, honoraria, meetings, and per
diem, excluding salaries. The expenditures would follow government procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and Bank review. Procurement of
construction works would follow procedures acceptable to the Bank using National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) documents. Procurement of equipment and furniture, would follow: (i) ICB procedures for
contracts each with an estimated value of US$ 200,000 or more; (ii) NCB procedures for contracts each
costing less than US$ 200,000 but more than US$ 50,000, up to an aggregate of US$ 2.5 million; and (iii)
National shopping procedures for packages of less than US$ 50,000 up to the aggregate limits of US$ 1.6
million.
Bank Reviews. Bank review will be as follows:
*  The Bank will carry out prior review of bidding documents and bid evaluation reports for
civil works contracts awarded under NCB procedures and goods and equipment contracts to
be awarded under ICB procedures, in accordance with Bank Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loan and IDA Credit, dated January 1995 and revised in August 1996 and September
1997).
*  All civil works contracts valued at or over US$ 200,000 will be subject to prior review and
will be awarded under NCB procedures in accordance with GOI regulations acceptable to the
Bank; all contracts of goods valued at or over US$ 200,000 will be subject to prior review
and will be awarded under ICB procedures following the Bank guidelines. All other
contracts of civil works will be subject to random post-review using a 1 in 4 sampling ratio.
Roughly 55 % of goods contracts are likely to be covered by prior review. In addition, as
part of annual implementation 25 % of goods contracts will be given ex post reviews.
Procurement planning, project administration and implementation will be reviewed at the
mid-term review of project that should be carried out no later than February 28, 2001.
*  All individual consultant contracts valued at or over US$ 50,000 equivalent and contracts for
consulting firms valued at or over US$ 100,000 would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. All other consultant contracts would be subject to random post review. However, the
Bank prior review shall apply to the terms of reference for single source selection of
consulting firms, and assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank.
All contracts of overseas fellowships valued at or over US$ 100,000 would be subject to
prior review and awarded according to Bank regulations.
*  In-country and overseas fellowships not otherwise subject to prior review, local training and
workshops would be subject to random post review by the Bank. The plans for each year
would be furnished to the Bank for review and approval.



56
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed loan of US$ 44.7 million would be disbursed over a period of five years. The
project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003, and the Loan would be closed six months
later. The project's closing date is March 31, 2004. Disbursements would be made in accordance with
the categories outlined in Table C. The disbursement schedule is based on the inmplementation and
disbursement profile for health projects in Indonesia.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements would be against statements of expenditures
for: (i) civil works and goods under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 equivalent each; (ii) studies
research and overseas fellowship contracts costing less than US$ 100,000; (iii) in-country fellowships,
training and workshops; (iv) deployment innovations; (v) Project administration; (vi) service delivery
contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 each; and (vii) contracts for the employrnent of consulting firms
valued at less than US$ 100,000 equivalent each, and contracts for the employment of individuals valued
at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 13ank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. All other disbursements from the loan would be against full documentation.
Special account. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in an amount of US$ 2.8 million would
be established at Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank. This Special Account would be held in
the name of the Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The
Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment to the
Special Account would be made on the monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been
used, whichever occurs first.
Flow of funds: The Pimpro and Pimbagpro at the CPS and Province PIUs and units of institutions will
be responsible for authorizing the project expenditures in accordance with annual DIPs under existing
government procedures. The Pimpros and Pimbagpros will submit their payment requests to their
respective MOF Treasurer Offices (KPKN) at the provincial or district level, depending on the location of
the implementing units. The treasurer offices (KPKN) will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to the
Bank Indonesia (BI) to credit payees' accounts at their respective banks of the respective projects and to
debit the project Special Account. For expenditures in small amounts and for activities managed by the
CPS or PIUs themselves (swakelola), sufficient cash advance funds will be provided by KPKN to the
treasurers (Bendarahawan) of the CPS, PIUs or units. Each month or, when required, earlier, the CPS,
PIUs or units will account for their expenditures and report to the KPKN who wiill replenish the CPS,
PIUs or unit's account, based on the CPS, PIUs and unit's reports; the KPKN will then request
reimbursement from the project Special Account.
The DG Budget (DirJen Anggaran) will provide KPKN with guidelines and criteria for eligible
project expenditures, in accordance with the Loan Agreement. All the required forms necessary to submit
payment requests and the relevant documentation are standard and currently applicable to all foreign-
funded projects. The KPKN will provide copies of the payment remittance orders (SPM) and other
supporting documents to DG Budget regularly, against which the application for disbursement will be
prepared.
Financial Management System
The details of the project's financial management system is in the attachment provided which is



57
derived from the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared by Borrower.
Internal Control System. The Government's internal control systems consisting of an institutional
framework (project organization), accounting system and control procedures, are basically satisfactory to
the Bank. The adequacy of staff to carry out the project and the adoption of internal controls by the
involved units under the project have been reviewed. Staff with limited experience will be provided
training on project administration and management, and equipped with technical implementation
guidelines. Expertise in project management could be also recruited to provide advice to the project
implementing units.
The CPS in Jakarta and the PIU in the provinces will include staff responsible for administration
and procurement, finance and disbursement, and planning, monitoring and evaluation. Pimpro and
Pimbagpro, and bendaharawan (treasurers) at central, provincial and district implementing units will be
recruited following government regulation.
Financial Statement. The project financialL statements showing the financial position of the project during
the fiscal year ending on March 31 will comprise the following:
(a) Financial Statement of Project Account: The Pimpro and Pimbagpro of CPS, PIUs and units
will maintain separate project accounting records, on a cash basis, for source of funds. CPS,
PIU and institution units will also maintain accounting records for activities executed at
central and provincial and district levels, respectively. All relevant supporting documents
will be kept for annual audit and random inspection by the Bank. The overall financial
project accounts, i.e. the Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing will be prepared
CPS.
(b) Financial Statement of Special Account and SOE: The DG Budget, as custodian of the
project Special Account and responsible for disbursing funds from the bank, will prepare the
financial statements of the Special Account and the SOE (Statement of Expenditures). The
financial statement in standard formats (developed from June 1992) will include the
following:
(i). Deposits and replenishments to special account received from the Bank
(ii). Withdrawals from the Special Account, including all SOEs (both from SA and other
accounts) used
as the basis of submission of withdrawal applications
(iii). Remaining balance at the end of fiscal year
(iv). Reconciliation between amount received by SA and amount disbursed by the Bank
Financial Management Reporting Requirements. As part of the monitoring system, progress of financial
status will be reported on quarterly basis. PIUs and institutions will submit progress reports two weeks
after the end of quarter. CPS will compile and consolidate the central and provincial reports for
submission to the project management and the Bank one month after the end of the quarter.
All financial reports will follow the agreed formats provided in the Project Implementation Plan,
which include following:
(i) Statement of Project Expenditures and Finance (SPEF)
(ii) Progress Report of Project Expenditures and Financing (PRPEF)
(iii) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds (SSUF)
(iv) Cost Variance Report (CVR)



58
(v) Unit Variance Report (UVR)
(vi) Variance Analysis Report (VAR)
(vii) Project 6 Month Forecast (P6MF)
(viii) Contract Expenditures Report (CONREP)
(ix) Non-Contracted Expenditures Report (NCONREP)
(x) Status of Loan disbursement (STATLN)
In order to facilitate preparation of the above report reports, all expenditures will be recorded in the
worksheet for "Project Expenditures and Financing" format provided in the PIP.
Auditing Requirement. The quarterly progress reports would be used for the basis of preparing the
financial statement of project account (SPEF) to be submitted to the BPKP for annual audit. The annual
audit reports shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the Government's
fiscal year, i.e. not later than September 30 each year.
The annual audit at province would be carried out by the BPKP regional offices, based on the
provincial account prepared by the PIUs. CPS will prepare the overall consolidated accounts combining
the provincial account and the central accounts on the basis of audit findings by BPKP regional offices
and its own audit activities. The BPKP head office in Jakarta will also audit the financial statement of
Special Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOE) prepared by DG Budget. The audits by BPKP
auditors would be in accordance with the terms of reference for the audit of project account, Special
Account, and SOEs acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement Plan (Table D)
The procurement plan reflects the decentralized nature of the project activities. The plan will be
carried out in the provinces of Central Java, Central Kalimantan, South Sulawesi and their districts
throughout the five year life of the loan.



59
Annex 6
Indonlesia: Fifth Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
(including
Expenditure Category                               Procurement Method                      contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other al   N.B.F
1. Works                                         -          3.9          0.6        -           4.5
(0.4)       (0.0)                   (0.4)
2. Goods
EquipmentlFurniture/Instructional Materials      3.5        2.2          1.0        -            6.7
(2.2)      (1.3)        (0.5) -                (4.0)
Vehicles                                         -           -            -         0.6          0.6
3. Services
Overseas Fellowships                             -           -          11.0        -           11.0
(1 1.0)                (I 1.0)
Training/Workshops/In-country Fellowships        -           -          15.8        -           15.8
(15.8)                 (15.8)
Studies and Research                             -           -           2.8        -           2.8
-          -          (2.8)                   (2.8)
Consultant Services                              -           -           6.6        -           6.6
(6.6)                  (6.6)
4. Miscellaneous
Deployment Innovations                           -           -           3.6        -            3.6
(2.2)                  (2.2)
Project Administration                           -           -           1.9        -            1.9
(1.9)                  (1.9)
Operational Support                              -           -            -         2.7          2.7
Total                                         3.5        6.1         43.3        3.2        56.2
(2.2)      (1.7)      (40.8)                  (44.7)
Notes:
a/ This category includes community works, national shopping, force account, Govemment's administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and consultant selection procedures acceptable to the Bank.
ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
NBF = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Numbers may not add up due to rounding errors.



60
Annex 6
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure              Contract Value            Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category                 (Threshold)               Method           Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                                     (US$ millions)
1. Works
Facility Rehabilitation   Equal to or more than      NCB for contracts      All contracts costing
US$ 200,000               costing US$ 100,000 or  US$ 200,000 or more
more.
US$ 20,000 or less        Other (force account by
community)
2. Goods
Equipment and furniture   Equal to or more than      ICB for contracts      All contracts costing $200,000 or
US$ 200,000               costing US$ 200,000 or  more
more.
Less than US$ 200,000 but   NCB for contracts
more than US $ 50,000     costing less than US$
200,000
US$ 50,000 or less        National Shopping,
three prices quotation,
for contracts costing
less than US$ 50,000.
3. Services
Overseas fellowships      US$ 100,000                Other                  Contracts costing US$ 100,000 or
more;
Annual plans for overseas
fellowships will be submitted for
Bank review.
Training/workshops/in-    N.A.                       Other                  Annual training plans for each
country fellowships                                                         year will be submitted as part of
annual report for review.
Consultant services,      $50,000 for individual     Other                  All individual consultants
evaluation and research   consultants and $100,000                          contracts costing $50,000 or more
for firms                                        and for consulting firms $100,000
or more. All TORs and single-
source selection of consultants.
Project administration    N.A.                       Other                  Contracts for consultant services
will follow review set out above;
All other will follow Government
procedures acceptable to the Bank
4. Miscellaneous
Deployment Innovation     N.A.                       Other                  Follow Government procedures
Fund                                                                        acceptable to the Bank
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 26.1 million



61
Annex 6
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in US$      Financing Percentage
million
(1) Civil Works                                       0.5                   10%
(2) Goods, excluding vehicles                         3.8                  60%
(3) Training, Workshops, In-country Fellowships       14.7                 100%
(4) Studies and Research, Overseas Fellowships        12.9                 100%
(5) Program for Deployment Innovation                 2.0                  60%
(6) Service Delivery Contractors                      2.9                  100%
(7) Project Administration*                            1.8                 100%
(8) Consultant's Services                             3.2                  100%
(9) Unallocated                                       2.9
Total         44.7
* Includes expenditures for travel, meetings, and per diems necessary for project implementation.



62
Annex 6
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table D: Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibility
Total    Estimate                                  Contracts
Category                         value     Contract
(US$ M)   Quantity   DIP Allocation   Procurement    Review         Bank      Documents required
method       Method        Review by  for Disbursement
Civil Works:                      4.5
(0.4)
> USS 200,000                                6      Province         NCB           Prior          TM/RSI      Full documentation
< US$ 200,000                                 8     Province         NCB           Random Post   SPN/RSI    SOE
< US$ 20,000                                 20    Province/District  Other*       Random Post
Goods                             6.7
(4.0)
>US$ 200,000                                 13    Central/Province  ICB           Prior          TMIRSI      Full documentation
<US$ 200,000                                 12    Province/District  NCB,         Random Post   SPN/RSI    SOE
<US$ 50,000                                  38    Province/District  Shopping     Random Post   SPN/RSI    SOE
In-country fellowship/           15.8       NA    Central/Province   Other         Random Post   SPN/RSI    SOE
training/ workshops             (15.8)              District
Overseas Fellowship              11.0
(1 1.0)
> US$ 100,000                               NA    Central/Province   Other         Prior          TM/RSI      Full documentation
<US$ 100,000                                NA    Central/province   Other         Limited prior   TM/RSI     SOE
Consultants services/ research/   6.6
Study:                           (6.6)
Quality & Cost Based Selection               12    Central/Province   QCBS
(QCBS)
Quality Based Selection (QBS)                22    Central/Province   QBS
Individual Consultant (IC)                   5      Central/Province   IC
Service Delivery Contractors                 12    Province          QCBS
Deployment Innovations            3.6       NA    Province/district   Other        Random Post   SPN/RSI    SOE
(2.2)
Project Administration            1.9       NA    Central/Province/  Other         Prior         TM/RSI       Full documentation
(1.9)             District                       Random Post   SPN/RSI    SOE
Note: The Project Administration Unit will prepare annual procurement plans for each year that will be incorporated in the annual
implementation plan for the project. The project administration Unit will also prepare a plan of annual training/workshops, in-country fellowship,
overseas fellowship programs. The plans for the coming fiscal year will be submitted by July 31 of each year.
*For civil works valued less than US$ 20,000, the method of procurement will be force account procedures involving the community.



63
Annex 7
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)   (as of 5/31/98)
310                 310
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                             12
Identification mission                         3/14/1997           3/14/1997
Approval of Project Concept                    6/24/1997           6/19/1997
PAD Decision Meeting                          12/18/1997            3/2/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    3/6/1998            3/17/1998
Negotiations                                   4/15/1998            4/30/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  8/15/1998
Prepared by: GOI Central MOH and Provincial KANWIL (MOH) preparation teams
Preparation assistance: Trust Fund # 29286 (managed by GOI)
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Howard Barnum (task team leader)
Jo Martins (peer reviewer)
Vicente Paqueo (peer reviewer)
Helen Saxenian (peer reviewer)
Rosario Aristorenas (Costab)
Bridie Champion (disbursement officer)
Kenneth Chomitz (health financing)
Clifford Garstang (legal counsel)
Vivian Hon (Costab, fiscal analysis)
K. Iswandi (project management)
Preben Jensen (Sr. disbursement officer)
Maurice Le Blanc (Sr. disbursement officer)
Samuel Lieberman (country sector coordinator)
Karin Nordlander (legal counsel)
Yogana Prasta (Sr. disbursement officer)
Mukesh Chawla (health financing, consultant)
Marie Farrell (training, consultant)
James Finucane (health financing, consultant)
James Heiby (training, USAID)
Milton Orris (training, consultant)
Jane Robinson (training and accreditation, consultant)
Sheila Ward (training, consultant)



64
Annex 8
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Proposals for Fifth Health Project from (a) Central Java, (b) Central Kalimantan, (c) South
Sulawesi.
Project COSTAB file (electronic version available at EASHN)
Project Implementation Plan (Project Description; Project Management; Financial Management System;
Detailed Procurement Plan; Agreed Guidelines; Terms of Reference for First 18 Months Technical
Assistance and Studies; Detailed Project Implementation Schedule)
B. Bank Staff and Consultant Assessments
Identification, preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal aide memoires and back-to-office reports.
Finucane, James R. 1997. "Indonesia: Fifth Health Project: Efficiency and Equity Component."
James Heiby, Consultant Report on Competency Based Training
Milton Orris, Consultant Report on Pre-Service Training
Sheila Ward, Consultant Report on Training
C. Other
Adisasmito, Wiku. 1997. "Health Professionals Project: Strengthening Professional Association: Final
Report." University of Indonesia, School of Public Health.
Chomitz, K. M., G. Setiadi, A. Azwar, N. Ismail and Widiyarti. 1997. "What Do Doctors Want?: Two
Empirical Estimates of Indonesian Physicians' Preferences Regarding Service in Rural and Remote
Areas." Consultant Report, World Bank, East Asia and Pacific Region, Health Nutrition Population
Unit.
Hamid, Achir Yani. 1997. "Strengthening Nursing Professional Association." Paper prepared at
Consultant Report and Concept Paper, Indonesia, Ministry of Health.
Hutapea, Ronald. 1997. "Health Professionals Project: Final Report." Consultant Report, HPP
Consultant for Accreditation and Licensing.
Indonesia, Bureau of Personnel. 1997. " Health Professional Project: Utilization and Distribution
Component." Concept Paper.
Indonesia, Ministry of Health. 1995. Study on "Selecting an Essential Package of Health Services Using
Cost-Effective Analysis": Final Report. Bureau of Planning Secretariat General.
Indonesia, Yayasan Pengembangan Kesehatan Masyarakat. 1997. "Unit Cost Study in 20 Institutions of
Health Manpower Education, Central Java and Sulawesi Provinces, Budget Year, 1996/1997."
University of Indonesia, Public Health Faculty.
Kaufman, Cindy and Judith Standley. 1997. "Training Needs Assessment of Diploma III Midwifery
Schools." Consultant Report, ACNM Consultants for PRIME.



65
Knowles, James C. 1996. "Options for Expanding Private Sector Reproductive Health Services in
Indonesia." Report submitted to National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN), Abt
Associates Inc.
Maeda, Akiko. 1997. "Indonesia Health Sector Study: Selecting an Essential Package of Health
Services Using Cost-Effective Analysis." Paper prepared for the National Institute of Health
Research and Development, World Bank and Johns Hopkins University, School of Public Health.
McMillan, Margaret and Marilyn Pedder. 1997. "Nursing Education: Joint Program and Multi-Program
Institution Component." Consultant Report.
Melnick, Glen. 1997. "Proposal for Private Sector Development: Health Professionals Project."
Consultant Report.
Murray, Susan F. 1997. "The Development of an In-Service Training Program and Training Strategy for
Bidan di Desa." Consultant Report.
Setyowati. 1997. "Developing Curriculum Nursing Program under Health Professional Project."
Consultant Report and Concept Paper, University of Indonesia, Faculty of Nursing Science.
Soetikno. 1997. "Management Training for the Province and District Level Health Personnels at Central
Java, South Sulawesi and Central Kalimantan." Consultant Report, Indonesia, Depkes, Ministry of
Health.
Thabrany, Hasbullah. 1997. "Strengthening Utilization and Distribution of Health Professionals for the
Health Professionals Project." Consultant Report.
World Bank. Indonesia's Health Work Force: Issues and Options. Report No. 12835-IND. November
28, 1994.



Annex 9
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Generated: 06/15/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                 Last ARPP
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Cloped Loans/credits: 460
Active Loans
ID-PE-36956   IBRD 42070    98   GOI                                  SAFE MOTHERHOOD               42.50        0.00            0.00          41.15       -.51        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-41894   IBRD 4095A   1987  GOI                                  SUMATRA SEC EDUC              94.65        0.00            0.00          93.02       3.36        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3960    IBRD 3209A   1990                                       GAS UTILIZATION               24.15        0.00            0.00          15.71      15.74       12.58       S              S
ID-PE-3922    IBRD 3340A   1991  GOI                                  SULAWESI/IRIAN JAYA            4.17        0.00            0.00           2.17        2.15       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3977    IBRD 3246A   1991  GOI                                  THIRD JABOTABEK URB           13.41        0.00            0.00          11.98      11.98        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3916    IBRD 3501A   1992                                       SURALAYA THERMAL              88.17        0.00             0.00         72.34    144.40        50.93       S              S
POWER
ID-PE-3969    IBRD 3496A  1992  GOI                                   PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH           8.47        0.00            0.00           7.02       7.02        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3997     IBRD 3482A  1992  GOI                                  TELECOM IV                   148.13        0.00            0.00         131.20    111.18         0.00       HS            HS
ID-PE-4012    IBRD 3454A  1992  GOI                                   BAPEDAL DEV PROJ                .30        0.00            0.00             .30        .32       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3940    IBRD 3448A  1992  GOI                                   PRIMARY EDUC QUALITY          13.40        0.00            0.00          11.45      11.25        0.00       S             S
IMPROVE
ID-PE-3966    IBRD 3431A   1992  GOI                                  NON-FORMAL EDUC III            5.94        0.00              .27          4.46       4.74        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3928    IBRD 3402A   1992  GOI                                  AGRICULTURAL FINANCI          39.06        0.00            0.00          38.86      38.87        0.00       S             S   CY
ID-PE-3990    IBRD 3629A  1993  GOI                                   WTR & SANI FOR LOW I          43.23        0.00            0.00          40.33      33.69       15.02       S              S   a'
ID-PE-4007    IBRD 3602A   1993  GOI                                  POWER (CIRATA II)             61.44        0.00            0.00          58.44      53.47        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3999    IBRD 3588A   1993  GOI                                  GROUNDWATER DEVT.             11.91        0.00            0.00          10.55      12.83        -.09       S              S
ID-PE-4009    IBRD 3586A   1993  GOI                                  INTEGRATED PEST MGMT          13.28        0.00            0.00          10.84       9.84        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4006    IBRD 3579A  1993  GOI                                   E.INDONESIA KABUPATE          21.20        0.00            0.00          15.95      15.92        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3914    IBRD 3550A   1993  G01                                  THIRD COMM HEALTH &           30.74        0.00            0.00          27.22       9.46        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3954    IBRD 3762A   1994  GOI                                  JAVA IRR IMP 6 W R M         108.27        0.00            0.00          98.45      40.19        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3910    IBRD 3761A  1994  GOI                                   SUMATERA & KALIMAN P         216.28        0.00            0.00         201.59    111.43         0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3937    IBRD 3755A   1994  GOI                                  INTEGRATED SWAMPS             38.42        0.00            0.00          34.87      11.40        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4017    IBRD 3754A  1994  GOI                                   UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR          33.12        0.00            0.00          30.46      10.43        0.00      HS             S
ID-PE-3890    IBRD 3749A  1994  GOI                                   SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U         110.67        0.00            3.67          93.68      49.78         .90       S             S
ID-PE-4010    IBRD 3742A   1994  GOI                                  DAM SAFETY                    38.25        0.00            0.00          35.55      20.63       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-4020    IBRD 3732A   1994  GOI                                  KABUPATEN ROADS V             25.59        0.00            0.00          19.08       7.09        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3998    IBRD 3726A   1994  GOI                                  SURABAYA URBAN               113.14        0.00            0.00         106.38      62.29        2.15       S             S
ID-PE-3952    IBRD 3721A   1994  GOI                                  SKILLS DEVELOPMENT            10.24        0.00            0.00           8.04      12.95        5.54       S             S
ID-PE-3945    IBRD 3712A   1994  GOI                                  HIGHWAY SECTOR II            196.44        0.00            0.00         180.37    137.04         0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3985    IBRD 3658A   1994  GOI                                  WTRSHED CONSERVATION          44.22        0.00            0.00          43.31      18.33       0.00       HU             U
ID-PE-3860    IBRD 3464A   1994  GOI                                  TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE          27.12        0.00            0.00          24.00      17.76       0.00        S             HS
ID-PE-39754   IBRD 39136   1995                                       TA FOR INFRA. II              28.00        0.00            0.00          24.69      13.49        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3965    IBRD 39056  1995  GOI                                   HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT         87.00        0.00             0.00          75.91      11.91       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3965    IBRD 3905S  1995  GOI                                   HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT           1.00       0.00             0.00           0.00      11.91       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-4001    IBRD 39046  1995  GOI                                   TELECOM SECTOR MODER        325.00        0.00             0.00         299.81    114.81        0.00       HS             HS
ID-PE-34891   IBRD 38886  1995  GOI                                   VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU          47.10        0.00            0.00           3.69         .37      0.00       HS             HS
ID-PE-3968    IBRD 38876   1995                                       BOOK & READING DEV          130.40        0.00             0.00         113.42       6.02       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3968    IBRD 3887S  1995                                        BOOK & READING DEV             2.10       0.00             0.00            .10       6.02       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3972    IBRD 38866  1995  GOI                                   AG. RESEARCH II              61.00        0.00             0.00          53.57      24.07       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3951    IBRD 3854A  1995  GOI                                   KALIMANTAN UDP               77.4.3       0.00             0.00          65.85      41.84       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3979    IBRD 3845A  1995  GOI                                   RURAL ELECT II              252.09        0.00             0.00         204.18    165.41        0.00        S             S
ID-PE-3988    IBRD 3825A  1995  GO                                   PHRD II                       40.57        0.00            0.00          36.81       7.48       0.00        S             S
ID-PE-4019    IBRD 3801A  1995  GOI                                   ACCOUNTANCY DEV II            18.64        0.00            0.00          17.33      13.78        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3984    IBRD 3792A  1995  GOI                                   LAND ADMINISTRATION           56.45        0.00            0.00          50.07      14.27        0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4016    IBRD 40540  1996  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA                 STRATEGIC URB. RDS I          86.90        0.00            0.00          76.59      18.49       0.00        S             S
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 9
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Generated: 06/15/98
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   disbursements a!    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj           Imp Prog
ID-PE-4004    IBRD 4043A  1996  GOI                                 HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III        56.80        0.00            0.00         51.27      -1.25       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-37097   IBRD 4042A  1996  GOI                                 E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.            96.50        0.00            0.00         95.81      10.44       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-41896   IBRD 4030A  1996  GOI                                 HR CAPACITY BUILDING        19.31        0.00            0.00         19.11       5.61       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-39312   IBRD 4017A  1996  GOI                                 SECOND E. JAVA UDP         129.64        0.00            0.00        128.99      69.90       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4014    IBRD 4008A  1996  GOI                                 KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP         18.47        0.00            0.00         18.44       3.87       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4011    IBRD 4007A  1996  GOI                                 SULAWESI AGRI AREA          23.97        0.00            0.00         22.83       1.10       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4008    IBRD 3984A  1996  GOI                                 NUSA TENGGARA DEV.          24.80        0.00            0.00         24.10       3.91       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-39643   IBRD 39810  1996  GOI                                 STD/AIDS                    24.80        0.00            0.00         22.95      14.16       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-4003    IBRD 3979A  1996  GOI                                 SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA        54.40        0.00            0.00         51.74      21.09       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4021    IBRD 3978A  1996  GOI                                 POW. TRANS 6 DIST II       362.74        0.00            0.00        354.04    165.61        3.71       U             U
ID-PE-3978    IBRD 3972A  1996  GOI                                 IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV        40.08        0.00            0.00         38.42      23.24       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-42882   IBRD 41980  1997  GOI                                 RENW. ENER SMAL PW P        66:40        0.00            0.00         66.40        .67       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-49051   IBRD 41940  1997                                      BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P        16.40        0.00            0.00         15.40       1.30       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-40195   IBRD 41930  1997  GOI                                 QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED        71.20        0.00            0.00         68.70       2.84       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-36047   IBRD 41550  1997  GOI                                 BALI URBAN INFRAST.        110.00        0.00            0.00        106.80       -.43       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-35544   IBRD 41320  1997  GOI                                 SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS          20.00        0.00            0.00         20.00       2.14       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-42540   IBRD 41250  1997                                      IODINE DEF. CONTROL         28.50        0.00            0.00         26.99       1.09       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4026    IBRD 41060  1997  GOI/PERUMKA                         RLWY EFFICIENCY            105.00        0.00            0.00        105.00      11.34       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-36053   IBRD 4105A  1997  GOI                                 SULAWESI UDP II            149.58        0.00            0.00        146.70      34.08       0,00       S             S
ID-PE-40521   IBRD 41000  1997  GOI                                 VILLAGE INFRA II           140.10        0.00            0.00        103.53      19.26       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3987    IBRD 4062A  1997                                      C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.       101.14        0.00            0.00        100.10      14.74       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-45337   IBRD 43300  1998  GOI                                 KECAMATAN DEV FUND         225.00        0.00            0.00        225.00       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-39644   IBRD 430S0  199B  GO1                                 W.JAvA BASIC EDUC.         103.50        0.00            0.00        103.50       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-3993    IBRD 43070  1998  GOI                                 N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS       234.00        0.00            0.00        234.00       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-37095   IBRD 43060  1998  GOI                                 MALUKU REG. DEV             16.30        0.00            0.00         16.30       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-36048   IBRD 43050  1998  GOI                                 CORAL REEF MGM REHAB         6.90        0.00            0.00          6.90       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-40061   IBRD 42900  1998  GOI                                 BENGKULU REG DEV            20.50        0.00            0.00         20.50        .20       0.00                           "
ID-PE-55755   IBRD 42550  1998  TBD                                 BANKING REFORM ASST.        20.00        0.00            0.00         18.25      -1.75       0.00
ID-PE-48715   IBRD 42440  1998                                      IIDP                        34.50        0.00            0.00         33.25       1.09       0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                        5,160.12        0.00            3.94      4,735.81  1,839.15       90.74
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 435.71           18,324.35           18,760.06
of which has been repaid:                   0.00            7,779.55           7,779.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,228.06           10,584.05           15,812.11
Amount sold                      :                0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid               :                0.00               88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed                :            4,735.81               39.27            4,775.08
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = hi9hly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology ISecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



68
Annex 10
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Indonesia at a glance                                                      1/28198
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East  middle-
ndonesia      Asia  income        Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        197.1     1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             1,090       890    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                              213.4      1,542    1,967
T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          1.7       1.3      1.4
Labor force ()                                         2.5       1.3      1.8      GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)              11 
Urban population (% of total population)                36         31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        64         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               51         40       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (0% of children under 5)             11
Access to safe water (% of population)                  62         49       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    16         17                       Indonesia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  115        117      104
Male                                                 117       120       105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               113       116       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                           32.1      87.2     201.2    225.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                23.7      26.1      31.1     31.8              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servicesJGDP            24.0      23.0      26.4     26.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   26.6      28.6      32.3     33.2
Gross national savings/GOP                      ..       ..      24.7     25.6
Current account balance/GDP                     ..       ..      -3.5      -3.6
Interest payments/GDP                         1.0       2.3       2.5      2.3      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               35.8     42.1       61.8     57.1
Total debt service/exports                     ..        ..      30.1     36.0
Present value of debttGDP                      ..       ..         ..    55.4
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..         ..   209.6                   Indebtedness
197545  1986-96      1996      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                      Indonesia
GDP                                  7.0      7.9       8.2       7.6      6.6               Lower-middleincome group
GNP per capita                       4.3      6.1       5.7       5.8      5.1
Exports of goods and services       -1.0      8.9      8.6        6.3      7.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agrculture                                   30.2      23.2      17.2     16.3      20-
Industry                                     33.5     35.9       41.5     42.7
Manufacturing                                9.8     16.0      24.2     25.2     is
Services                                     36.3     40.9       41.4     41.0
Private consumption                          64.3     59.6       59.9     59.2             91   92   93   94   95   96
General government consumption                9.0      11.8       7.9      7.7                     GDI       GDP
Imports of goods and services                21.0     20.5       25.2     24.9
197545  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   4.2       3.4       4.2      1.9    30
Industry                                      7.0       9.9      10.4     10.5
Manufacturing                               14.5     11.2      10.8      11.0    20
Services                                      9.0       8.0       7.7      6.9
Private consumption                          10.0      7.2        9.6      7.4
General government consumption               10.5      4.4        1.3      3.8 
Gross domestic investment                    12.1      10.8      13.5     11.8             91   92   93   94   95   96
lmports of goods and services                 8.8       9.4      15.8      9.6               - Expo
Gross national product                        6.5       7.9       7.4      7.5    l
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



69
Annex 10
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1986      1995    1996   !
Domesic prices                                                                  Inflation
(% change)                                                                     i10
Consumer prices                             19.1      4.7       9.4      8.0
ImplicitGDPdeflator                         11.2      4.3       9.4      8.7     s
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                       0
Current revenue                               ..    19.2       15.5    15.3             91   92   93   94   95   99
Current budget balance                        ..      6.0       6.4       ..             -    GDP def. --*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -3.2       -0.2      1.0
TRADE
1976    1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  18,823    44,792        ..    5OOOD
Fuel                                        .,  12,804      8,638
Rubber                                       ..     714     1,554
Manufactures                                .. 2,287    23,487                 310
Total imports (cif)                           .. 14,056    41,286                20,00IIl
Food                                        ..     812        868200
Fuel and energy                             .. 280          3,841              1,0
Capital goods                               ..   5,394    16,712
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..    121        137        *-           90  91  92  93  94  95  95
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..      85       127        .                    Exports    a Imports
Termsof trade (1987=100)                      ..    143        108        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..   53,154   58,317      0
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..   47,871   52,822    o     90  91         93  94  99  96
Resource balance                              ..       ..    5,283    5,495                      l
Net income                                    ..      ..   -5,799   -6,094
Net current transfers                         ..      ..   -6,471   -7,470                         L '
Current account balance,                                                       I
before official capital transfers           ..       ..   -6,987   -8,069      3.
Financing items (net)                         ..      ..    9,548   11,967
Changes in net reserves                       ..      ..   -2,561   -3,898    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         592   13,184    26,139   27,519
Conversion rate (1ocaiLUS$)                415.0  1,110.6   2,248.6  2,342.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995    1996   1
(millions US$)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      11,498   36,715   124,398  129,033                        A
IBRD                                       57    3,590    12,503   11,139                        11139 B
IDA                                       318      844       756      736             G               736 D
Total debt service                         1,060    5,823    16,419   21,462   I       32230               5375
IBRD                                        2      384      1,875    2,249   1
IDA                                         2       12        26       26
E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             28911
Official grants                             ..      ..       249      190
Officialcreditors                         515      980      1,115    -805
Private creditors                        1,749     154      2,314    6,971
Foreign direct investment                   ..      ..    4,348    7,960
Portfolio equity                            ..      ..    4,873    3,099   1               F
5 0642
World Bank program                                                                         5
Commitments                               311    1,068      1,312    1,194     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             184      777      1,045     905      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        0      133       975    1,429      C - IMF                    G - Shon-term
Net flows                                 164      644        69    -523
Interest payments                           3      262       926      846
Net transfers                             160      382      -857   -1,370
Development Economics                                                                                            1/28/98
Note: Government finance and trade fiscal year (April to March).



70
Annex lla
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Decentralization Of The Ministry Of Health
Bureau Of Personnel By Function
Revised, March 20, 1998
No.     Function          Central Authority       Has Been Decentralized     Will Be Decentralized to    Time
Province and District
I    Planning of      1. Receive proposal from  1. Receive proposal based on   1. Planning proposal based    Y-2
Health Personnel  province.               min. standard staffng need  on agreed min-max standard
from district and provincial    staffmg need (DSP for HP).
2. Set allocation of HP for   level.
each province. ^
2. Allocation of HP based on   2. Allocation of HP based on
bottom-up and top-down.    agreed DSP plan.
2    Recruitment of   Recruitment for Physicians,  Recruitment for HP except  1. Recruitment of all    Y-3
HP              Dentist and Pharmacists and  doctor, dentist, and pharmacist  category of HP will be
other university level HP.    done by Kanwil.        delegated to prov./district
levels, based on agreed DSP,
include. posting HP to
private sector due to
overstaffing.
2. Contract additional staff   Y-3
needed at the services unit by
prov/district levels.
3. Provide necessary      Y-2
incentives for HP based on
their performance, by district
level.
3    Registration and   1. Registration of doctors.   1. Registration of midwives at  1. Registration of all HP  Y-2
Licensing                                 prov. level.                decentralized to provincial
2. Licensing of all HP.                              level.
2. Licensing of doctors and    2. Licensing issued by  Y-3
midwives by Kandep.        Kanwil, based on
certification/recertification
issued by professional
association.



71
Annex llb
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Decentralization of Pre-service Training According to Function
No.      Function          Central Authority        Has Been Decentralized      Will Be Decentralized To    Time
.____________________                                      Province and District
I    Educational       Standard and provision     Proposal for facilities plan.  The institutions:         Y-2
facilities       decided by Center.                                      *  Develop facility needs,
based on priorities.
*  Decide facility
specifications.
*  Province develops
______________________________   guidelines.
2     Curriculum       MOH develops core          Development of syllabus and    *  Development of 10-20%   Y-3
development      curricula, Ministry of     teaching plan. Development       local content of
Education & Culture        of 10-20% local content of       curriculum.
approves. General          curriculum.                  *  Development of
implementation and subject                                  institutional curricula.
guidelines developed at                                 *  Development of specific
Center.                                                    institutional strategic
approach in program
implementation.
Modification of subject
guidelines for the purpose of
higher achievement in
competencies.
3    Teaching staff    *  Set up teacher standard   Select fellows and submit  *  Kanwil and institutions    Y-2
appointment and      and criteria.          proposal.                       initiate teacher
development      *  Provide opportunity                                      development system
and support for                                         based on standard and
continuing education.                                   criteria.
*  Approve teacher                                      *  Institutions develop
recruitment.                                            cooperation with
universities institutes to
improve teachers
education and
competencies.
* Develop learning
resources networking for
teachers.
4     Monitoring and    Center develops general   Kanwil develops operational    *  Institutions develop   Y-2
evaluation of    guidelines.                guidelines and supervises.       internal guidelines.
program                                                                  *  Self mechanism in
implementation                                                               monitoring and
evaluation system.



72
No.      Function          Central Authority        Has Been Decentralized      Will Be Decentralized To    Time
Province and District
5    Final             General guidelines.        Kanwil coordinates the       *  Examination process by   Y-2
examination                                 implementation.                  Kanwil and institutions,
accreditation grade as
basis for authority.
*  Related professional
organizations and health
service institutions
involve in examination
process.
6    Accreditation     Policy, guidelines and     Kanwil explains accreditation   *  Kanwil has greater    Y-3
instruments. Decision on  policy and guidelines to         authorization to decide
the level of accredited   institutions.                    the level of accredited
schools.                                                    schools. Professional
organizations to be
involved in accreditation
process.



73
Annex lilc
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Decentralization of In-service Training According to Function
No.    Function         Central Authority      Has Been Decentralized      Will Be Decentralized to     Time
_____________                  Province and District
I    Training        Developing Master Plans  Each district compiles training  *  TNA conducted by  Yl (Central
Program        of training programs and   programs proposed by          Puskesmas and district   Java)
Planning       conduct TNA.            Puskesmas and sends it to       level.                  Y2-3 (South
province to central.                                   Sulawesi., C.
__________  _________________                          Kalimantan)
Selects and approves    Develop Plans of Action of  *  Selection & approval of  Y-1
training programs       those training programs         training program done
proposed by provinces    approved based on allocated    by provincial level.
based on assumption and  budget and central guidance.
allocated budget.
Each DG proposes                                    *  Province will also      Y 1-2
training programs and its                               develop strategies of
guidance for                                            implementation.
implementation.
Develop curriculum of                               *  Province and districts    Y1-2
approved training                                       develop training
programs and its                                        curriculum assisted by
guidance for                                            Bapelkes.
implementation.
2     Training       Standard and provision    Proposal and plan for      *  Bapelkes identifies their  Yl (C.Java)
Facilities     decided by center.      facilities.                     facility needs. Province  Y2-3 (S.
expands training       Sulawesi, C.
capacity using existing   Kalimantan)
facilities (schools,
______________  _hospitals, etc.
3     Training Staff   Establishment positions   Province proposes names of    *  Bapelkes may use their  Y-2
Appointment    determined by central.    Widiyaiswara.                  own sources (BNBP) to
Central considers       Bapelkes may hire non-          hire more high position
proposed training staff    government staff (cleaning,  staff.
and gives approval.     kitchen staff, etc.)            Bapelkes may
outsource the expertise
from other institutions.
4     Implementation  Conduct training       Conduct training according to   *  Province conducts all    Y-2
of training    programs at central level. their POAs and central       training programs based
program                                guidance.                        on their needs.



74
No.  - Function        Central Authority       Has Been Decentralized     Will Be Decentralized to     Time
Province and District
Certain training                                   *  District conducts       Y-2
programs at province are                               specification on the job
still conducted by central                             training.
(using central budget)
*  Province and district    Y-l (C. Java)
hospitals conduct     Y2-3 (S.
clinical training using    Sulawesi, C.
problem-based and     Kalimantan)
competency- based
approach.
5    Evaluation of   Accreditation of training   Evaluation conducted mainly   *  Each institution  Y-2
training       institutions.          through pre-test and post-test.  conducts self evaluation
programs                                                               based on their job
performnance.
*  Province assisted by
Bapelkes conducts     Y-2
accreditation program
for training institution.



75
Annex 12
Indonesia: Fifth Health Project
Guidelines for Expenditures under Deployment Innovations (DI)
1.    One of the goals of the Fifth Health Project is to improve the efficiency of utilization and equity
of distribution of health personnel. The Deployment Innovations (DI) sub-component is intended to
support special activities and innovations proposed by district management or province Kakanwils that
would improve the efficiency and equity of deployment of health personnel.
Eligible Expenditures
2.    The DI will be used to finance expenditures to support, develop and implement special activities
proposed by district management and proviince Kakanwils that could promote and demonstrate: (i)
innovations in staff deployment and productivity; (ii) private provider development; (iii) Swadana
institution development; (iv) contracted services contributing to component objectives; (v) incentives for
rural location, service to poor populations and higher performance levels; and (vi) other interventions that
demonstrate innovations in staff deployment, productivity and community participation, and reduce the
imbalance between staffing and utilization of urban and rural health services.
3.    Eligible expenditures under DI will be limited to the following items: office equipment (including
computers), data collection and analysis, training, supplies and materials, travel costs, consultant charges,
services to assist in design and implementation of deployment innovations, and demonstration of the
supported program.
4.    To be eligible for Bank financing, all procurement must be done in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Proposals
5.    Proposals will be initiated at the province or district level. However, proposals may be a joint
undertaking between the province, district and other agencies, including Perum Husada Bhakti, academic
and research institutions, and professional health organizations. Consultants from either the province or
the center may assist in preparation of the proposals.
6.    To facilitate cvaluation, all proposals must be prepared according to the following format:
(a) Objectives
(b) Description of the activity
(c) Relevance to the overall goals and objectives of the project
(d) Expected benefits to the project province
(e) Scope of work, including the design and implementation plans
(f) Cost estimates and budget, following standard format
(g) Time table for completion of activities
(h) Monitoring and evaluation plan



76
Criteria for Evaluation
7.    The following criteria will be used to evaluate each proposal:
(a) Clarity of objectives
(b) Relevance to the overall goals and objectives of the project
(c) Appropriateness and feasibility of the proposed design and implementation plan
(d) Potential for replication
(e) Adequacy of the monitoring and evaluation plan
(f) Reasonableness of cost estimates
(g) Evidence in support of availability of government budgetary grants to substitute for loan
funds to ensure sustainability, where applicable
(h) Competence and experience of proponents and implementors of the proposal.
Review and Approval of Proposals
8.    Proposals prepared in the three HPV provinces will be submitted to the Provincial Project
Coordinator (Kakanwil Depkes) who, with assistance of the Provincial Technical Team and Project
Consultants, will review the proposal. On being satisfied that the proposal meets the eligibility criteria,
the Provincial Project Coordinator (Kakanwil Depkes) will, within a period of thirty days, submit the
proposal to the Project Director for DI funding.
9.    The Project Director, assisted by the Central Technical Team and Project Consultants, will
review the proposals to ensure that they meet all the eligibility criteria. The Project Director will prepare a
written technical review of each proposal.
10.   In the case of proposals that may have implications for departments other than DEPKES, such as
those that suggest innovate employment practices, the Project Director will obtain written comments and
concurrence from all relevant departments and agencies.
11.   All proposals, along with written comments, will be submitted by the Project Director within
fifteen days of receipt of the proposal, to the Central Steering Committee for final disposal. The Central
Steering Committee will take a decision on the proposal within thirty days. Proposals approved by the
Central Steering Commnittee will be returned to the Project Director for submission to the World Bank for
comments. The approval decision, along with comments from the Bank, if any, will be communicated by
the Project Director to the Provincial Project Coordinator within fifteen days of the Central Steering
Committee decision. Proposals rejected by the Central Steering Committee will be returned to the Project
Director, who will send it back to the Provincial Project Coordinator explaining the reasons for rejection.
Disbursement of Funds and Accountability
12.   DI funds for approved proposals will be channelled through the sectoral development budget of
the three HPV provinces. Initially, 50% of the proposal amount will be released following acceptance of
the proposal. release of the remaining 50% will be contingent on acceptable progress reports and
satisfactory execution of the proposal.
13.   The Provincial Project Coordinator will be responsible for disbursement of funds for approved
proposals as well as for their accounting. DI funds will be audited following standard government
practice vis-a-vis bank-funded projects in Indonesia.



77
Monitoring and Evaluation
14.   At the province level, the Provincial Technical Team will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of approved proposals. Quarterly (three-month) reports will be submitted by the
implementors of the proposal to the Province Project Coordinator who, assisted by the Provincial
Technical Team, will cause periodic performance audits, and make a special note of unforeseen
impediments to implementation of the proposal. The Province Project Coordinator will submit six-
monthly reports to the Project Director in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation plan laid down
in the proposal.
15.   At the project level, the Project Director, assisted by the Central Technical Team, will be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation. Besides the six-monthly progress reports, the Province Project
Coordinator will submit the completion reports on the implementation of the approved proposals. The
Project Director will send a copy of the final completion report to the Bank.
Evaluation and Recommendations
16.   The Project Director, assisted by the Central Technical Team, will review all reports and may
make such recommendations as may be necessary for revising any aspect of the proposal during its
implementation stage if he is convinced that such revisions will improve the overall effectiveness and
efficacy of the proposal. All revisions are subject to the approval of the Central Steering Committee.
17.   The Project Director will review the overall progress of the Deployment Innovations program
once a year, and may make such suggestions as may be necessary regarding any amendments in the
overall scope of the Deployment Innovations program and/or of these Guidelines. These suggestions will
be discussed with the Bank for further action.



1 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1 4  amarin~~~~~~~~~)Po~c Poine
ro Ba,ai ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ dnd                                                 rvic   oudre
Pekanbar ~~~~~~~~~2~~~<lK~~~~~~<.    ~~~~    /  ~~~~                                                Internahonol Boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
)iK<r                       14  ~~~~~~~~~~~.                                      I                                                          PacrnC 0  crcsn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'1



