Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4374 IND
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 31, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4374 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
Page  2
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BAPELKES” means a health in-service training facility; 
(b)
“Central Project Secretariat” means the secretariat established by the 
Borrower in its Ministry of Health under the Secretary-General and maintained in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Decentralization Plan” means the Ministry of Health’s decentralization 
plan of training and health personnel functions in the Project Provinces dated April 
14, 1998; 
(d)
“Deployment Innovations Guidelines” means the guidelines, dated April 30, 
1998, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the procedures and conditions for the 
financing of deployment innovations under Part A.2 (d) of the Project, as such 
Guidelines may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(e)
“Dinas” means the local government health office;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(g)
“Kanwil” means the provincial health office of the Ministry of Health; 
(h)
“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established in the Kanwil in 
each of the Project Provinces and maintained in accordance with paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Jawa Tengah, 
Kalimantan Tengah and Sulawesi Selatan; 
(j)
“Puskesmas” means a public health center; 
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(l)
“SPK” means a school for basic nurse training; and 
(m)
“Unit Swadana” means an autonomous health facility. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty four 
million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($44,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, health and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  5
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti, 
Ambassador 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Loos
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
          Amount of the
        Loan Allocated
      % of
          (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
             Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
                  500,000
10%
(2)
Goods, excluding
                3,800,000
60% 
vehicles
(3)
Training, workshops
 14,700,000
100%
and in-country
fellowships
(4)
Studies, research
               12,900,000
100%
and overseas
fellowships
(5)
Deployment
                       2,000,000
                     60%
innovations
(6)
Service delivery
                2,900,000
                     100%
contractors
(7)
Project
                       1,800,000
                     100%
administration
(8)
Consultants'
                       3,200,000
                     100%
services
(9)
Unallocated
                       2,900,000
TOTAL
                             44,700,000
Page  6
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Deployment innovations” means expenditures for activities under 
Part A. 2 (d) of the Project approved in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; and
(b)
the term “Project administration” means expenditures on account of the 
Project by the Central Project Secretariat and the Project Implementation Units within 
the respective Kanwils for honoraria and travel expenditures, but excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
+
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works and goods under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) training, workshops, and 
in-country fellowships; (iii) studies, research and overseas fellowships costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) Deployment innovations; (v) Project 
administration; (vi) service delivery contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; and (vii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) achieving greater 
efficiency of utilization and equity of distribution of health personnel in the 
Project Provinces,  (ii) increasing  the skills of health professionals in the Project 
Provinces, and (iii) improving the quality of health professional practices in the 
Project Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of the Efficiency of Utilization and the Equity of 
Distribution of Health 
Professionals in the Project Provinces
1.
Strengthening planning and public sector management of health professionals in 
the Project Provinces by:
(a)
strengthening planning, analysis and personnel management capabilities of 
the provincial and district health managers, and hospital and Puskesmas managers, 
including identification of the scope of management responsibilities, and a program of 
workshops, on-the-job training, and local and overseas fellowships;
(b)
developing a practical personnel management information system (MIS) at 
the provincial and district levels, including procurement and installation of relevant 
hardware and software, and training of operators and managers in the use of the 
system;
(c)
designing and implementing at the provincial and district levels the 
staffing deployment system for health service personnel, Daftar Susunan Pegawai (DSP), 
including a decentralized recruitment system for placement of staff according to 
demonstrated local demand for services; and 
(d)
implementing the Ministry of Health’s Decentralization Plan for the 
Project Provinces relating to in-service training, pre-service training and health 
personnel functions.
2.
Implementation of innovations to support allocative efficiency and productivity 
in the Project Provinces, by:
Page  7
(a)
strengthening of the deployment and performance of professional health 
staff in Puskesmas and hospitals through the design and introduction of recruitment 
incentives for service in remote locations, a performance-based system of incentives 
for Puskesmas staff and for hospital staff in districts, and incentives to reduce 
over-staffing at facilities in more attractive locations;
(b)
training medical doctors, midwives and nurses in basic health care 
business management, and preparation of individual action plans for becoming private 
practitioners;
(c)
support  for  the  acceleration  of  Unit  Swadana  functions, including: 
(i) dissemination of guidelines and information for local governments who own 
hospitals to be converted; (ii) technical support for best practices, including 
management training and specialized advice in areas such as marketing, equipment 
maintenance, and budgeting; and (iii) training for hospital managers of district 
hospitals to be converted; and
(d)
the development and implementation, at the provincial and district level, 
of innovations in the deployment of health professionals to improve productivity and 
community participation in the assessment of the provision of health services, and to 
address the issues of the imbalance between urban and rural health staff distribution 
and low utilization in rural areas, especially by poor people.
Part B:
Improvement of the Quality of Health Professionals Practices in the 
Project Provinces
1.
Strengthening of the regulatory system for the licensing of health professionals 
and for the accreditation of educational institutions and continuing education 
courses, through (a) the development and implementation in the Project Provinces of a 
national model for statutory regulation and licensing of health professionals, and (b) 
adaptation and piloting in the Project Provinces of national level standard criteria 
and implementation steps for accrediting nursing and midwifery academies, including 
training and seminars. 
2.
Strengthening of the professional associations for medical doctors (IDI), 
nursing (PPNI) and midwives (IBI) and other selected associations in the Project 
Provinces through: (a) the establishment of provincial administrative offices, 
including provision of equipment and communication facilities; (b) the provision of 
orientation activities, studies and network development, and (c) the establishment of 
an information system and a desktop publishing capability, including provision of 
communication equipment for linkage with district offices.
3.
Establishment of an integrated system of quality assurance and assessment in 
health centers, hospitals and training institutions through: (a) training of trainers 
on total quality management and quality assurance implementation; strengthening 
training materials to adapt quality assurance programs for local use within hospitals, 
health centers and sub-health centers; and short-term fellowships for hospital and 
health center clinical role models and teachers in in-service and pre-service training 
institutions; (b) technical assistance by other provinces that are experienced with 
quality assurance programs in hospitals and health centers; and (c) carrying out of 
operations research and evaluation studies.
Part C:
Improvement of the Quality of Health Professional Training in the Project 
Provinces
1.
Improvement of training methods and programs through:
(a)
training, fellowships, and study tours for in-service trainers and 
pre-service teaching staff; rehabilitation and equipping of hospital and field-based 
learning resource centers; training of supplemental teaching staff in areas of 
critical skills; development of district training teams; establishment of educational 
information networks; development of curricula and preparation of course materials; 
and workshops and training courses for on-the-job skill development;
(b)
establishment of learning resource centers within selected district 
offices, hospitals, educational institutions and training centers;
Page  8
(c)
development of linkages with sister schools within and outside Indonesia 
to assist in the process of conversion from SPK to academy level for nursing and 
midwifery; 
(d)
strengthening distance learning; and
(e)
carrying out of studies for monitoring and evaluation of training methods 
and programs.
2.
Strengthening training institutions by:
(a)
strengthening BAPELKES through the construction and equipping of 
facilities, provision of fellowships to in-service health trainers to increase the 
range and skills of the teaching capacity and the understanding of quality assurance 
and competency-based training, and provision of consultants’ services for, among 
others, planning and conducting operations research and evaluation;
(b)
support for conversion of selected SPK to academies for nurses and 
midwives and upgrading the quality of selected SPK and academies for nurses and 
midwives, through: review and revision of curricula based on competency need profiles; 
fellowships for teachers; upgrading of facilities; review of the accreditation 
criteria; workshops and studies; and development of memoranda of understanding on 
training with clinical facility sites;
(c)
establishment of a multi-stream academy in the province of Kalimantan 
Tengah for the development of adequate numbers of different types of health care 
providers, including nursing, midwifery and nutrition; and 
(d)
strengthening, in the province of Sulawesi Selatan, the facilities of the 
academies for sanitarians, physiotherapists, nutritionists and dentists through the 
upgrading of classroom laboratories and the provision of language training.
Part D:
Project Management in the Project Provinces
Strengthening the Project Provinces’ Project Implementation Units’ capacity for 
Project management including provision of office equipment, supplies, workshops and 
technical assistance.
Part E:
Building Central Support for Health Professionals
1.
Strengthening planning capacity and technical support at the national level by:
(a)
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health and its supporting 
agencies for health personnel and training, to analyze and adjust policies governing 
the distribution, quality and performance, training, education and career development 
of health professionals employed in public service, including studies, training, 
workshops and technical assistance;
(b)
developing an integrated data management system for health professionals 
at the central offices of the Ministry of Health, at the Kanwil and Dinas offices and 
at their respective agencies at the Kabupaten and Kecamatan level; and
(c)
providing technical support to provincial and district health management 
units for the staffing deployment system (DSP), the recruitment and performance 
incentive systems, monitoring and evaluation activities, and quality assurance system 
development and monitoring.
2.
Improvement of the professional environment for health professionals through:
(a)
the preparation of draft regulations and procedures for licensing and 
controlling the practice of individuals within key health professional groups and for 
the accreditation  of  health  training  institutions; and
(b)
the strengthening of selected national health professional associations, 
including provision of equipment for communication, networking and desktop publishing; 
fellowships and work study tours; operations research and studies; and seminars, 
workshops and meetings for organizations needing strengthening.
Page  9
Part F:
Central Project Management
Strengthening the Central Project Secretariat’s capacity for Project management 
including provision of office equipment, supplies, technical assistance and renovation 
of office space.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
Page  10
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
 (i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 (ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank  offered  rates,  or  
other  reference  rates,  for  six-month  
\0cdeposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
Page  11
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this Part, goods estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this Part, works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $600,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  12
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for Project management, personnel planning and development of 
innovations under Part A of the Project and training methodology development under 
Part B of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by contractors for training institution and training 
methodology development under Parts B and C of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for implementation of the staffing deployment system under Part A of 
the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  13
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Central Project 
Secretariat for Project coordination, with terms of reference, staffing and resources 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Project 
Implementation Unit within the Kanwil in each Project Province for Project 
coordination at the provincial level, with terms of reference, staffing and resources 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the Decentralization Plan under Part A.1 (d) of the 
Project in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank.
4.
In carrying out Part A.2 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall review and 
approve deployment innovations in accordance with the Deployment Innovations 
Guidelines.
5.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than July 
15, 2001, furnish to the Bank for comments a proposal on the linking of accreditation 
and licensing to quality assurance and competency based training and, thereafter, 
prepare and carry out an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment of 
such a linkage.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the training, including fellowships, under the Project in 
accordance with guidelines and a training program acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
not later than March 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank for comments a 
training strategy setting out the role and scope of quality assurance and competency 
based training; and, promptly thereafter, carry out such strategy taking into account 
the comments of the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required under the Project in accordance 
with a schedule acceptable to the Bank.
Page  14
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the studies under Parts A, B, C and E of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish the recommendations of the studies to the Bank for comments not 
later than four months after the completion of each study; and 
(c)
promptly thereafter, prepare and carry out action plans, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments on the recommendations of the studies.
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 15 in each year, commencing July 15, 1999, and until 
completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank, by August 31 in each year, commencing August 31, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall request, and until completion of the 
Project, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 15, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and since the start of the Project, and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  and
(e)
review with the Bank, by August 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, and until completion of the Project, the report referred to in 
paragraph (d) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
10.
The Borrower shall cause the Central Project Secretariat, no later than July 15 
in each year commencing July 15, 1999, to furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment, a detailed work plan for the subsequent Fiscal Year, including proposed 
procurement requirements, fellowships and budgets for each Project Implementation Unit 
for such year.
SCHEDULE 6
Project Performance Indicators
1.
Decentralization
Achievement, by September 30, 2003, of the decentralization of all 
Project-related agency functions in accordance with the Decentralization Plan.
2.
Management
(a)
By August 31, 2001, 30% of District health management teams trained in 
Page  15
quality assurance and competency-based training, human resource management, financial 
management, and information systems; and 90% of such teams trained by September 30, 
2003.
(b)
By August 31, 2001, 50% of Provincial health management teams trained in 
quality assurance and competency-based training, human resource management, financial 
management, and information systems; and 90% of such teams trained by September 30, 
2003.
3.
Increased use of health services and equity of access to health professionals
(a)
By August 31, 2001, the number of unfilled Puskesmas and district 
hospital positions for nurses, midwives, and physicians reduced by 20%; and reduced by 
60% by September 30, 2003.
(b)
By August 31, 2001, the gap between capacity and actual use of health 
services reduced by 20%; and reduced by 50% by September 30, 2003.
(c)
By August 31, 2001, the proportion of the population without regular 
access to trained health professionals, including public and private practitioners, 
reduced by 20%; and reduced by 50% by September 30, 2003.
4.
Improve quality of health professional practices through regulatory mechanisms
(a)
By August 31, 2001, a system in place for the systematic registration of 
professionals in nursing, midwifery, and medicine; and by September 30, 2003 at least 
90% of professionals in nursing, midwifery and medicine registered in accordance with 
such system.
(b)
By August 31, 2002, an accreditation system established; and by September 
30, 2003, an operational system in place in all Project Provinces.
(c)
By August 31, 2002, a system in place for licensing professionals in 
nursing, midwifery, and medicine; and by September 30, 2003 provisions for annual 
licensing of new graduates initiated.
5.
Improve quality of health professional practices through quality assurance and 
competency-based training
By August 31, 2001, 20% of doctors, midwives and nurses trained through 
comprehensive programs in quality assurance and competency-based training; and by 
September 30, 2003 an additional 40% of professionals trained.
6.
Improve quality of training
(a)
By August 31, 2001, 50% of teachers and in-service trainers trained in 
quality assurance and competency-based training; and by September 30, 2003 95% trained 
in quality assurance and competency-based training.
(b)
By August 31, 2001, 50% of planned pre-service training institutions 
upgraded; and by September 30, 2003 95% of  these institutions upgraded.
7.
Fellowships 
By August 31, 2001, 25% of overseas fellowships and 25% of in-country 
fellowships placed; and by September 30, 2003 100% of both overseas and in-country 
fellowships completed.
8.
Professional Associations
By August 31, 2001, training and information system completed; and by Project 
completion fully functioning and self-sustaining professional associations in place in 
nursing, midwifery, and medicine with current membership, procedures for collecting 
dues, capacity for participating in accreditation, and delivery of in-service programs 
for members.
SCHEDULE 7
Page  16
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,600,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
Page  17
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
 (d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
