Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3967-AF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 4, 2004 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 
3967
-AF 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 2004, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower 
through the Ministry of Urban Development; 
(C) 
Part F of the Project will be carried out in accordance with 
implementation arrangements that are satisfactory and acceptable to the Association; 
(D) 
the Borrower intends to obtain grants and loans from various other 
donors to assist in financing Parts B, C, D, E, and F of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, among other things, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 2004) 
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Afghan Cartography Office” means the Afghan Geodesy and 
Cartography Head Office; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“Community-Based Organization” means a community development 
committee or a community action group that satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual; 
(c) 
“Community Upgrading Plans” means plans formulated by Community 
Based Organizations under Part A of the Project; 
(d) 
 
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” means the 
Borrower’s Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (including any 
amendments made from time to time), satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, 
which includes (i) key policy principles for social and environmental management, (ii) 
tools to guide the screening of project activities for significant social and environmental 
impacts, and to assist in the mitigation of such impacts, (iii) procedures to ensure that 
these principles and tools are appropriately applied, and (iv) guidelines for capacity 
building and monitoring; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
 “Kabul Mazhkan” means the government agency that is a repository of 
land titles, deeds, and other documents; 
(g) 
“Kabul Municipality” means Kabul Municipality established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower or any successor thereto acceptable to the 
Association; 
(h) 
“Land Tenure Technical Committee” means the Land Tenure Technical 
Committee to be established under paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Letter of Undertaking” means the letter of undertaking to be executed 
and furnished to the Borrower by Kabul Municipality and each of the Participating 
Municipalities regarding their respective roles and responsibilities in Project 
implementation; 
 (j) 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any 
successor entity thereto acceptable to the Association; 
(k) 
 “Ministry of Urban Development” means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Urban Development and Housing or any successor entity thereto acceptable to the 
Association; 
(l) 
“Municipal Plan” means a physical plan to be prepared under Part E of 
the Project for development of Kabul Municipality and any other Participating 
Municipalities;  
Page  5
-
3
-
(m) 
“Participating Municipalities” means Kabul Municipality and other 
municipalities (including towns and cities) of the Borrower selected to participate in 
Part E of the Project with the Association’s approval; 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, covering 
the initial eighteen month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall 
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(o) 
 “Program Management Unit” means the Program Management Unit, or 
any other entity acceptable to the Association, to be established pursuant to paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement with, among other things, overall responsibility for 
Project management; 
(p) 
“Project Executing Agencies” means with respect to: (i) Parts A, B, C, D, 
and E of the Project, the Ministry of Urban Development or an entity satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association; and for (ii) Part F of the Project, an entity satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association; 
(q) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation 
Manual (including amendments made from time to time and any schedules and annexes 
thereto) satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, which sets forth various 
operational, financial management, and procurement procedures governing the operation 
of the Project; provided however, if there is a conflict between this Agreement and the 
manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail;   
(r) 
“Project Support Team” means the Project Support Team to be 
established by Kabul Municipality pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement for coordinating Kabul Municipality’s participation in the Project; 
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Special Disbursement Unit” means the Special Disbursement Unit 
established by the Ministry of Finance under paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(u) 
“Structure Plan Team” means the Structure Plan Team established under 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(v) 
“Technical Support Unit” means the Technical Support Unit to be 
established under paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to provide technical 
support for all parts of the Project. 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account with its central bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2014 and ending June 15, 2044. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2024 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 (b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through the Project Executing Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with the Project Implementation Manual and the Environmental and Social 
Safeguards Framework and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and urban reconstruction practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Kabul Municipality and each 
of the other Participating Municipalities to: (i) execute and furnish to the Borrower a 
Letter of Undertaking, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and  
(ii) carry-out their respective activities under the Project in accordance with their 
respective Letters of Undertaking. 
(d) 
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take all actions, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable Kabul Municipality and each of the other Participating Municipalities to perform 
all the respective obligations of their respective Letters of Undertaking.  The Borrower 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Executing Agency 
responsible for implementing Part F of the Project carries out all its obligations in 
accordance with implementation arrangements satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association.  To this end, the Borrower shall take all actions, including the provision of 
Page  9
-
7
-
funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable this 
Project Executing Agency to perform its obligations.  The Borrower shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause its officials, agents, and representatives to 
provide, promptly as necessary, any necessary entry and exit visas, work permits, 
exchange and travel documents required for personnel engaged to implement Part F of 
the Project. 
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than eighteen months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
Page  10
-
8
-
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4
 
to this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Project 
Executing Agencies to prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring 
Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds; 
Page  11
-
9
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each financial monitoring report 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause Kabul Municipality, the Project 
Executing Agencies, and the other Participating Municipalities: 
(a) 
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(b) 
to carry on their respective operations and conduct their respective affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and 
(c) 
at all times to operate and to maintain their respective plants, machinery, 
equipment, and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, administrative, and environmental practices. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  12
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Colombia, United State of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /S/ Said Tayeb Jawad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /S/ Alastair McKechnie 
 
Authorized Representative  
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
16,540,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
320,000 
 
100% 
 
 
(3) Consultants 
70,000 
 
 
100% 
 
 services, 
including 
 audits 
 
(4)   Incremental Operating 
170,000 
 
100% 
 
Costs  
 
__________    
 
17,100,000 
 
TOTAL
 
==========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” 
means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and 
management, including the operation and maintenance of vehicles, communication and 
insurance costs, office administration costs, Special Account banking charges, utility 
charges, domestic travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of the officials 
of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
Page  15
-
13
-
equivalent per contract; and (e) all expenditures for Incremental Operational Costs; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (1) above, no withdrawals shall be made 
with respect to category (1) for Part A of the Project unless the Borrower and the 
Association have agreed upon a list of areas within Kabul Municipality’s jurisdiction in 
which upgrading shall be carried out. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving capacity 
of the Ministry of Urban Development and Kabul Municipality in urban management; 
and (ii) supporting the integration of selected neighborhoods into the urban fabric of 
Kabul Municipality through the reconstruction and rehabilitation of urban services and 
facilities. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Area Upgrading in Kabul Municipality
Carrying out an area-
upgrading program in areas under Kabul Municipality’s 
jurisdiction focusing on poor, infrastructure-deficient, planned, and unplanned 
neighborhoods by providing improved water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, 
access roads, hill-side steps, drainage and street lighting services and facilities. 
Part B
:
Land Tenure Regularization
Developing an appropriate capacity, appropriate methodologies, and procedures 
to regularize urban land-tenure in the Borrower’s territory, including: 
(i) 
the carrying out of pilot schemes to test methodologies and assess 
capacity in four identified communities; and 
(ii) 
capacity-building and training in the Afghan Cartography Office, the 
Kabul Makhzan, and other project implementing agencies. 
Part C
:
Engineering and Project Management Support for the Borrower’s Urban   
Agencies
Provision of engineering and project management support including: (i) technical 
assistance by the Technical Support Unit to support the Program Management Unit, the 
Project Support Team, and the planning and design consultants; (ii) goods for the 
Ministry of Urban Development, Kabul Municipality, and the Afghan Cartography 
Office; (iii) auditing, monitoring and evaluation services, and (iv) incremental operating 
expenses. 
Part D
:
Overall Capacity Building for Kabul Municipality
Assisting Kabul Municipality by: (i) strengthening its revenue-generation, 
financial management, asset management, budgeting, and planning (other than town 
Page  17
-
15
-
planning); (ii) capacity building for various departments including: (A) the planning and 
finance department and related sub-departments, (B) the income department, (C) the 
properties department, and (D) the control office; and (iii) the development, design, and 
implementation of simple operating procedures to improve efficiency. 
Part E
:
Preparation of Structure Plans and a Future Urban Project
Assisting the Ministry of Urban Development, Kabul Municipality, and other 
Participating Municipalities in: (i) preparing physical development plans; and 
 
(ii) building planning capacity, and (iii) preparing a feasibility study for a future urban 
project focusing on city-wide urban services in Kabul Municipality and other 
Participating Municipalities. 
 Part F
:
Improvements to Main Roads, Drainage, and Traffic Management in Kabul
A
program involving construction and rehabilitation of major streets and drains 
in Kabul Municipality that will include: (i) construction of new roads; (ii) reconstruction, 
repair, and overlay of existing roads; and (iii) repair of primary drainage channels and 
secondary drainage systems; and (iv) traffic management improvements. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated 
May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract and works for medium sized upgrading schemes 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the procedures set 
out in the annex to this schedule. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
Page  19
-
17
-
4. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
said procurement method. 
5. Community 
Participation
.
Works involving small upgrading schemes 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in  
Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(i) 
the first contract (irrespective of its value) for either goods or works in 
each year of the Project; 
(ii) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more; 
(iii) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and 
(iv) 
each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more. 
B. 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(h), 2(i) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
C. 
For contract of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
Page  21
-
19
-
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least 28 days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
Page  22
-
20
-
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight weeks, and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
Page  23
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Overall Project Management 
1. 
 (a) 
The Borrower shall prepare a Project Implementation Manual in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association setting out details of all procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the Project, including: (i) the financial, 
administrative, and operational arrangements for carrying out the Project; (ii) criteria for 
selecting eligible communities to participate in the Project; and (iii) principles on which 
the Project’s upgrading program is to be designed. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, vary, or waive any provision of the Project Implementation 
Manual and the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall assign responsibility for the overall management of 
the Project to the Ministry of Urban Development and, to that end, shall maintain the 
Ministry of Urban Development in a form and with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Ministry of Urban Development shall establish, and thereafter 
maintain a Program Management Unit with responsibilities, functions, staffing, and 
resources satisfactory and acceptable to the Association.  The Program Management Unit 
shall be responsible for, among other things, managing Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the 
Project including procurement and financial management.   
(c) 
The Borrower shall ensure that two financial officers (an external 
appointee and an internal staff member), with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Association, are available on a full-time basis throughout the Project’s 
implementation period to coordinate and oversee the Project’s financial management and 
disbursement aspects. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Executing Agency for Part F 
of the Project carries out this component in accordance with implementation 
arrangements that are satisfactory and acceptable to the Association and the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
(e) 
The Ministry of Urban Development shall establish by 
 
December 31, 2004, and thereafter, maintain a Technical Support Unit in a form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  24
-
22
-
(f)  
 The staff of the Technical Support Unit shall include a financial 
management specialist with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
(g) 
The Borrower shall maintain the Special Disbursement Unit in its 
Ministry of Finance in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association.  The Special Disbursement Unit shall be responsible for: 
(i) accounting of the Project’s funds; and (ii) management of cash resources. 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall refrain from taking any action that shall prevent or 
interfere with the implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Frameworks. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall continue to conduct annual monitoring of the 
environmental impacts of Project implementation for at least the two years immediately 
following the Closing Date. 
Project Teams and Committees
 
4. 
The Ministry of Urban Development shall establish, and thereafter maintain a 
Structure Plan Team with responsibilities, functions, staffing, and resources satisfactory 
and acceptable to the Association to prepare a Municipal Plan for Kabul Municipality and 
other Participating Municipalities. 
5. 
Kabul Municipality shall establish, not later than December 31, 2004, and 
thereafter maintain, a Project Support Team with responsibilities, functions, staffing, and 
resources satisfactory and acceptable to the Association.  The Project Support team shall, 
among other things, provide technical support for Project implementation. 
6. 
The Ministry of Urban Development shall establish, not later than 
 
December 31, 2004, and thereafter maintain, a Land Tenure Technical Committee with 
responsibilities, functions, staffing, and resources satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association.  The Land Tenure Technical Committee shall provide the Ministry of Urban 
Development policy advice, direction, and strategy regarding land-tenure regularization 
under Part B of the Project. 
Participating Communities 
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that communities identified to participate in the 
Project are selected according to a procedure satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association. 
Page  25
-
23
-
Land Mines 
8. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that no project activities are carried out in high 
security areas or areas containing a significant risk of land mines without receiving 
appropriate and necessary clearances from designated authorities.   
(b) 
In particular, the Borrower shall ensure that no activities involving civil 
works to be financed under the Project shall commence without appropriate clearances 
concerning the status of land mines in the areas where civil works are to be undertaken. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall undertake not to lay new Mines in any part of the 
Borrower’s country so as to adversely affect, or in any way undermine, the implementation 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
 
9. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 (a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 (b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2006, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 (c) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  26
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  27
-
25
-
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  28
-
26
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.  
 
