E827
November 2003
Afghanistan
Emergency Urban Reconstruction Project
Environmental & Social Management Framework
Background
With an estimated population of around 25 million, Afghanistan is among the poorest
countries in the world. The urban infrastructure of Afghanistan was severely damaged in
the past two decades of conflict. Neglect and even deliberate targeting of vital facilities
that keep modem cities healthy and prosperous have resulted in a variety of public health
problems in a number of urban centers in the country. These problems are further
compounded by the increasing numbers of people who are moving into urban areas to
escape rural hardships insecurity arising from degraded environments and loss of
livelihood as well as return of refugees in substantial numbers (nearly 3.5 million
Afghans are estimated to be retuming by the end of 2003). There is a tremendous
shortage of housing. The proposed Afghanistan Emergency Urban Reconstruction Project
with funding assistance from the World Bank seeks to provide much-needed support in
rehabilitating and improving services in Kabul and provincial towns of Afghanistan.
Project Objective
The main objective of the Emergency Urban Reconstruction Project is to improve urban
management and the delivery of urban services and shelter in Kabul Municipality. This
will be achieved by supporting the integration of selected neighborhoods into the urban
fabric of the capital city by carrying out reconstruction and rehabilitation of urban
services and enhancing the managerial capacity of the Ministry of Urban Development
and Housing and the Kabul Municipality. The project would also lay the groundwork for
a follow-up project aimed at city-wide infrastructure reconstruction and service delivery.
The project will also support improvements in water supply and primary road networks in
selected secondary towns.
Project Description
In pursuit of the above objective, the proposed Credit will finance a series of investments
in critical infrastructure and housing and a set of institutional development activities
designed to improve the management capacity of the Ministry of Urban Development and
Housing and the Kabul Municipality.
The project includes two components, each with its five sub-components; (i) urban
service and shelter improvements; and (ii) policy advice, training and engineering and
management support:
* Urban Services Improvement
o Area Upgrading in Kabul and secondary towns



o  Housing reconstruction
o  Repairs and reconstruction of major road and drains (KfW to oversee
implementation)
o  Repair and extension of Water supply and Sanitation systems (KfW to
oversee implementation for works in Kabul)
o  Engineering and Management Support
Policy Advice and other support
o  Urban Institutional Development
o  Structural Planning for Kabul
o  Land tenure regularization in Kabul upgrading areas
o  Future proj ect preparation and other studies
o  Management support
Potential impacts of various components
Activities envisaged under the project should not entail significant and negative
environmental and social impacts, provided they are designed and implemented with due
consideration of environmental and social issues. Construction activities may cause
limited, temporary, and localized negative impacts that can be mitigated through the
implementation of an appropriate social and environmental management plan. Most sub-
projects envisaged under EURP should contribute to improving environmental and social
conditions in Kabul and other provincial cities. Capacity building of municipalities,
which would also include environmental and social management, are likely to have a
positive impact on the environment. The proposed preparation of a revised structure plan
for Kabul and feasibility studies will include detailed environmental and social
assessments so that environmental and social concems can be addressed in both the
design and implementation of future large scale projects.
Adverse impacts may arise due to depletion or degradation of natural resources such as
stone, earth, water etc. used for housing and urban infrastructure construction and if
proper environmental management is not carried out at design, construction and operation
stages. To limit the extent of these risks, the Framework provides guidelines and codes of
practice for and environmental mitigation measures to be incorporated in the design,
contracting and monitoring of sub-projects, along with an implementation structure
assigning responsibilities to implementing agencies and their consultants, and a capacity
building program for social and environmental management.
Purpose of the Environmental and Social Management Framework
It is acknowledged that currently social and environmental management in Afghanistan is
suffering from critical capacity constraints. Since there is potential for adverse impacts,
albeit limited, on the environment due to the proposed activities under the Urban
Reconstruction Project, their mitigation and management is key to wholesome
rehabilitation and development of neighborhoods. Hence, keeping in view the existing
2



social and environmental management capacity, as well as the flexibility required with
investments still to be finalized, a framework approach is adopted for EURP. It allows
the early identification of potential adverse impacts, without the requirement of rigorous
analysis through quantification, and also provides broad guidance for their effective
mitigation. Consistent with existing national legislation, the objective of the Framework
is to help ensure that activities under the project will:
* Protect human health;
* Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;
*  Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects or
their cumulative effects;
* Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and,
* Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.
General Principles
Recognizing the emergency nature of proposed reconstruction operations, and the related
need for providing assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing
potential environmental and social risks, this Framework is based on the following
principles:
1. The proposed operations will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs of
which may not be known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application of the
World Bank's safeguard policies, the Framework provides guidance on the
approach to be taken during implementation for the selection and design of
subprojects, and the planning of mitigation measures;
2. All proposed subprojects will be screened (using Matrix 1) to ensure that the
environmental and social risks can be adequately addressed through the
application of standardized guidelines (using Matrix 2);
3. Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintain regional balance, and
equity between genders, and ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in
population density. Employment opportunities within the projects will be
available on an equal basis to all, on the basis of professional competence,
irrespective of gender, or ethnic or religious group. In all projects which require
consultations with local communities or beneficiaries, gender-separated
consultations will be conducted to elicit the views of the female population, along
with that of the male population; and,
4. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special
needs of these operations. Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in
Afghanistan in Dari and Pashto, and in the World Bank Infoshop.
3



Safeguard Screening
Although no significant environmental impacts are expected, some proposed activities
will need to be carefully screened for potential impacts, including: (i) solid waste
management, particularly if it involves disposal; (ii) domestic liquid waste disposal, and
septic tank cleaning; (iii) reconstruction of sewers and drains; (iv) low cost water
treatment facilities and water distribution network repairs and extensions in Kabul and in
provincial cities; and (v) construction impacts for access roads.
Additionally, the selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects
will be consistent with the following guidelines:
* A negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed subproject ineligible
for support, as indicated in Attachment 1;
*  Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation,
presented in Attachment 2;
*  Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including the chance discovery
of archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites, provided
in Attachment 3.
*  Generic codes of practices for environmental management at design, construction
and operation stages, provided in Attachment 4.
*  Formats for limited environmental assessment (LEA) and generic Terms of
Reference for a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), available in
Attachments 5 and 6, respectively.
*  Generic Terms of Reference for a full Social Assessment in Attachment 7
*  The requirement that confirmation is received through the Regional Mine Action
Center that areas to be accessed during reconstruction and rehabilitation activities
have been demined (see guidelines in Attachment 8)
Mitigation measures - Design
Sound design will, if not eliminate, at least diminish to the extent possible, most of the
potential adverse impacts of project activities. Good Engineering design will, in most
cases, have a positive impact on the environmental conditions in the project area.
Environmental criteria for the design of particular types of sub-projects are provided in
Attachment 4.
As a matter of principle, no new borewells should be drilled in urban areas as it would
further deteriorate the quantity and quality of groundwater. It is however recognized that
piped water will not be made available to all urban residents for many more years, and
there is an urgent need to ensure access to safe water for drinking purposes at least.
Where water cannot be supplied through the network, the project will assess feasible
alternative/temporary options on a case-to-case basis. If it is determined that a new
4



borewell is the only possible alternative, a through environmental assessment will be
carried out, including water quality tests and analysis of impact on aquifers and on other
users of the resource. In all cases, adequate water quality monitoring arrangements will
be put in place.
Adverse impacts on local ecology will be considered on a case-by-case basis. A pre-
design walk-through of the design team, with specialist environmental input, through the
project area will be a highly desirable exercise. Otherwise, local knowledge from other
stakeholders such as NGOs' and local residents may be tapped to ascertain that the
project does not cause significant damage to any important environmental resources.
Co-ordination with the line departments, other stakeholders such as NGOs must begin in
the design phase itself. This will ensure that the project is ready for mitigating impacts
such as those related to Resettlement and Health service support, if required. One aspect
which deserves attention is the drafting of the Contract documents where social and
environmental mitigation should be built into the project agreements (candidate clauses
are provided in the next section and formats/guidelines are provided in the Annex).
Mitigation measures - Construction
The emphasis of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is on construction stage
impacts since the operation stage impacts, as has already been stated before, can be
minimized, mitigated or compensated by managing the rehabilitated infrastructure in line
with project design parameters. In order to minimize the potential adverse impacts of
construction, standard bidding documents would have the following environmental
precautionary clauses:
*  The natural landscape should be preserved to the extent possible by conducting
operations in a manners that will prevent unnecessary destruction or scarring of
natural surroundings. Except where required for permanent works, quarries,
borrow pits, staging and processing areas, dumps, and camps, all trees, saplings,
and shrubbery should be protected from unnecessary damage by project related
activities. After unavoidable damage and to restore quasi-original conditions were
appropriate;
*  Contractor's operations should be so performed as to prevent accidental spillage
of contaminants, debris, or other pollutants, especially into streams or
underground water resources. Such pollutants include untreated sewage and
sanitary waste, tailings, petroleum products, chemical, biocides, mineral salts, and
thermal pollution.
*  Wastewater, including those from aggregate processing and concrete batching,
must not enter streams without settling ponds, grade I filters, or other process, so
as not to impair water quality or harm aquatic life;
*  The contractor should ensure proper disposal of waste materials and rubbish. If
disposal by burial or fire, it should not cause negative impact to either the air, soil
nor ground water supplies;
5



*  The contractor should minimize air and water pollution emissions. Dust from the
handling or transporting of aggregates, cement, etc., should be minimized by
sprinkling or other methods. Materials, brush or trees should only be burned when
the owners permits, under favorable weather conditions;
*  The contractor's facilities, such as warehouse, labor camps, and storage areas,
should be planned in advance to decide what the area will look like upon
completion of construction. These facilities should be located so as to preserve the
natural environment (such as trees and other vegetation) to the maximum extent
possible.
*  After project construction, camps and building should either serve as permanent
residences and form future communities, if such use can be foreseen and
approved, or be torn down and the area restored to its quasi-original condition in
order to avoid deterioration into shanty towns.
* Borrow pits should be landscaped and planted accordingly to an ecological design
to provide some substitute area for lost natural landscapes and habitats.
Social Safeguards
The components of the project will benefit households in general by providing increased
level of services including water, sanitation and transport. While women and children are
not specifically targeted, they will be the primary beneficiaries of the interventions in
water and sanitation in terms of health gains (the under-5 mortality rate is currently 25%)
and reduced workload in water collection. The realization of these benefits will be
ensured through the provision of health education as part of the water and sanitation
interventions.
No land acquisition is anticipated since the project mostly involves rehabilitation of
existing urban structures and construction in existing municipal right-of-ways (for roads
and water supply). However there are three proposed investment components where there
could be some potential for land acquisition: urban upgrading, water supply, and roads. In
the event that any minor areas of land would be needed for a project (e.g. realignment of
a road), such land could only be obtained through either private voluntary donations,
compensation payments for assets acquired by the local community, or available
government land. Private voluntary donations would be documented as required by the
Framework (Attachment 2(ii)), as would compensation payments made by the
community (Attachment 2(i)). A one page Land Acquisition Assessment Data sheet
includes basic land acquisition screening information including, quality of land required,
location, use of land and number of people potentially affected by involuntary
resettlement. For government land, documentation would be needed that the land is free
of encroachments, squatters or other encumbrances, and has been transferred for the
project by the authorities.
No activities will be supported that require involuntary land acquisition or the acquisition
of land requiring the resettlement or compensation of more than 200 people.
Consequently, no Resettlement Action Plan will be required for the proposed project.
6



Participation Framework
Participation is a process through which stakeholders influence and share control over
development initiatives and the decisions and resources which affect them. This process
will be carried out through the different stages of proposed project i.e. selection of sub-
projects, planning, implementation and monitoring for which a strategy will be prepared
(by the consultants implementing the project components, notably urban upgrading, as
part of inception reports), with the following objectives:
*  Understand existing modes of participation to improve the effectiveness of
stakeholder participation. Collaborate with govemment to identify appropriate
stakeholders. Recognize customs, beliefs, attitudes and constraints related to
participation are gender-specific and stem from the fact that men and women play
different roles, have different needs, and face different constraints on a number of
different levels.
*  Develop a strategy for involving stakeholders as participants and monitoring and
evaluating participation and outcomes that involves both quantitative and
qualitative tracking of indicators over the life of the project which is done with the
direct involvement of the communities whose participation is being monitored.
During the process of consultations with local communities, separate arrangements shall
be made to ensure participation by and consultation with women, as they can not be
expected to be covered through the general community consultations.
Responsibilities for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
The overall responsibility of project oversight rests with the Ministry of Urban
Development and Housing (MUDH). A designated Safeguards Nodal Officer will be
identified with responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the Environmental and
Social Safeguards Framework and Management Plan within the Project Management
Team (PMT) at the MUDH. The Kabul Municipality will provide an officer drawn from
its own staff to act as the nodal point for safeguards for sub-project implemented by the
Municipality. Intemational Consultant firms will be contracted for the implementation of
the project investment components (urban upgrading, water supply, and roads) , and will
have primary responsibility as per the terms of their Contract to ensure adequate social
and environmental mitigation and management during design, construction and
operation, as shown below:
7



Sub-project           Responsibilities for implementation   Responsibilities for
of the safeguards framework       oversight/monitoring
Area Upgrading in Kabul and    Design/implementation Consultant # 1  MUDH and Kabul
secondary towns; Housing       (UN-Habitat), as per the terms of their  Municipality (KM), with
reconstruction                 contract/ToR                      assistance from Project
Management Consultant
Repairs and reconstruction of  Design/implementation Consultant # 2  KM, with assistance from
major road and drains          (KfW-funded), as per the terms of their  Project Management
contract/ToR                      Consultant
Repair and extension of Water  Design/implementation Consultant # 3  KM, with assistance from
supply and Sanitation systems  (KfW and IDA-funded), as per the  Project Management
terms of their contract/ToR       Consultant
Urban Institutional Development  Urban component of Technical Assistance for Social and Environmental
Assessment (separate IDA-funded comp nent)
Structural Planning for Kabul  Design Consultant # 4, as per the terms  MUDH and KM, with
of their contract/ToR             assistance from Project
Management Consultant
Future project preparation and  Design Consultant # 5, as per the terms  MUDH and KM, with
feasibility studies            of their contract/ToR, using generic  assistance from Project
.________ _  ToR (Attachments 6 and 7)     Management Consultant
Capacity Building
As part of the social and environmental capacity building that will be provided for
implementation of IDA-financed operations in Afghanistan, the Safeguards Focal Officer
and relevant staff of MUDH, Kabul Municipality and implementing agencies/Consultants
will receive training in the application of the Safeguard Framework. It is proposed to
prepare specific materials, hold a workshop, and arrange site visits to other countries in
the region on similar projects in progress to provide hands-on training to the Ministry and
implementing agency staff. Specialist training modules may be considered after an
acceptable level of base knowledge has been established. The capacity building activity
will be implemented under a separate Technical Assistance program for Social and
Environmental management. During supervision of the project, the World Bank will
assess the implementation of the Framework, and if required, will recommend additional
strengthening.
Consultation and Disclosure
This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was developed on the basis of an
overall Framework for World Bank-funded reconstruction operations which was prepared
in consultation with the principal NGOs and development partners participating in
reconstruction activities in Afghanistan. Prior to approval of the project by the World
Bank Board, it will be disclosed by ITSA in both Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and
it will also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop. It is worth noting that ITSA
intends to make all project documentation publicly available through the Afghan
Information Management System (AIMS).
8



The proposed project will support feasibility studies for future large urban infrastructure
schemes, for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to consultation and disclosure
will apply, if they are financed by IDA. In particular, for environmental Category A and
B investments (as defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental
Assessment) proposed for future operations, the implementing agency will consult
project-affected groups and local non-governmental organizations about the project's
environmental and social aspects, and will take their views into account. The executing
agency will initiate such consultations as early as possible, and for meaningful
consultations, will provide relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a
form and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.
No activities classified under Category A will be financed in this project.
9



Attachment 1
Ne2ative List of Subproject Attributes
Subprojects with any of the attributes listed below will be ineligible for support under the
proposed emergency reconstruction operations.
Attributes of Ineligible Subprojects
Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats.
Including, but not limited to, any activity within:
*     Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary;
*     Ajar Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve;
*     Dashte-Nawar Waterfowl Sanctuary;
*     Pamir-Buzurg (Proposed) Wildlife Sanctuary;
*     Bande Amir National Park;
*     Kole Hashmat Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary.
Will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, including but not limited to
any activities that affect the following sites:
*     monuments of Herat (including the Friday Mosque, ceramic tile workshop,
Musallah complex, Fifth Minaret, Gawhar Shah mausoleum, mausoleum of Ali
Sher Navaii, and the Shah Zadehah mausoleum complex);
*     monuments of Bamiyan Valley (including Fuladi, Kakrak, Shar-I Ghulghular
and Shahr-i Zuhak);
*     archaeological site of Ai Khanum;
*     site and monuments of Ghazni;
*     minaret of Jam;
*     mosque of Haji Piyada/Nu Gunbad, Balkh province;
*     stupa and monastery of Guldarra;
*     site and monuments of Lashkar-i Bazar, Bost;
*     archaeological site of Surkh Kotal.
Requires pesticides that fall in WHO classes IA, IB, or II.
Requires involuntary acquisition of land, or the resettlement or compensation of more
than 200 people.
10



Attachment 2
Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation
I. Objectives
Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement is not anticipated under this proposed
emergency project since it mainly involves rehabilitation of existing urban infrastructure.
Proposals that require more than minor expansion, along rights of way, demolishing
houses or acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to minimize or avoid
their impacts through alternative alignments. No land or asset acquisition may take place
outside of these guidelines. A format for Land Acquisition Assessment is attached as
Attachment 2(i).
These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons to
ensure that all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure/tenancy
status, will be assisted to improve, or at least to restore, their living standards, income
earning or production capacity to pre-project levels.
Categorization
Based on the number of persons that may be affected by the project (Project Affected
People, PAPs) and the magnitude of impacts, projects may be categorized as S-1, S-2, or
S-3 projects:
a.     S-I projects are those that will involve the resettlement of more than 200
PAPs and where a full Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) must be produced.
Such interventions will be ineligible for support under the proposed
emergency reconstruction operations.
b.     S-2 projects are those which will involve the resettlement of less than 200
persons. In such cases, the following documentation is required: (1) a land
acquisition assessment, (2) the Minutes or record of consultations which
assess the compensation claimed and agreement reached, and (3) a record of
the receipt of the compensation, or voluntary donation, by those affected (see
below).
c.     S-3 projects are not expected to have any land acquisition or any other
significant adverse social impacts; on the contrary, significant positive social
impact and improved livelihoods are expected from such interventions.
II. Eligibility
PAPs are identified as persons whose livelihood is directly or indirectly affected by the
project. PAPs deemed eligible for compensation are:



(1)   those who have formal legal rights to land, water resources or
structures/buildings, including recognized customary and traditional rights;
(2)   those who do not have such formal legal rights but have a claim to usufruct
right rooted in customary law;
(3)   those whose claim to land and water resources or building/structures do not
fall within (1) and (2) above, are eligible to assistance to restore their
livelihood.
Acquisition of Productive Assets and Compensation
PAPs are eligible for replacement costs for lost assets as described below:
a.     Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices,
individuals may elect to voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate
temporarily or permanently from their land without compensation.
b.     Contributions against compensation. A contributor/asset loser considered
"affected" will be eligible for compensation from the local community or
alternatively from the Government. A PAP shall lodge his/her claim for
compensation to the local community representatives/shura head and it shall
be verified by the implementing agency. The claim shall be lodged within 2
weeks of completion of the consultations with the concerned community,
and before project implementation begins.
Voluntary contribution, or contribution against compensation, should be documented.
The documentation should specify that the land is free of any squatters, encroachers or
other claims. A format is attached in Attachment 2(i), which includes a Schedule to be
followed to assess any compensation claimed and the agreement reached.
III. Compensation Principles
The project implementing agencies shall ensure that any of the following means of
compensation are provided in a timely manner to affected persons:
(1)    Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other
productive assets with the remaining assets being economically viable are entitled
to compensation at replacement cost for that portion of land or assets lost to them.
Compensation for the lost assets will be according to following principles:
a.    replacement land with an equally productive plot, cash or other equivalent
productive assets;
b.     materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures that will be
demolished;
c.    replacement of damaged or lost crops and trees, at market value;
d.     other acceptable in-kind compensation;
12



e.    in case of cash compensation, the delivery of compensation should be
made in public, i.e. at the Community Meeting.
(2) Project affected persons losing access to a portion of
their land or other economic assets rendering the
remainder economically non-viable, will have the
options of compensation for the entire asset by
provision of alternative land, cash or equivalent
productive asset, according to the principles in (1)
a-d above.
Consultation Process
The implementing agencies will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets
located in a proposed subproject area are consulted. There will be gender-separate
community meetings for each affected mantaqa/gozar (urban infrastructure) or village
(other projects) to inform the local population about their rights to compensation and
options available in accordance with these Guidelines. The Minutes of the community
meetings shall reflect the discussions held, agreements reached, and include details of the
agreement, based on the format provided in Attachment 2(ii).
The implementing agency shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and
confirm in discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for
compensation, agreements reached, and any eventual complaint. Copies will be recorded
in the posted project documentation and be available for inspection during supervision.
Subproject Approval
In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the
implementing agency shall:
a. not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed
between the affected person and the local community;
b. not allow works to start until the compensation has been delivered in a
satisfactory manner to the affected persons;
c. if more than 200 persons are affected and require compensation, the
subproject shall be deemed ineligible for support under the emergency
reconstruction operations.
Complaints and Grievances
All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the local
community/village level. If this falls, complaints and grievances about these Guidelines,
implementation of the agreements recorded in the Community Meeting Minutes or any
alleged irregularity in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the affected
persons or their representative at the municipal or district level. If this also fails, the
complaint may be submitted to the relevant implementing agency for a decision.
13



Verification
The Community Meeting Minutes, including agreements of compensation and evidence
of compensation having been made shall be provided to the Municipality/district, to the
supervising engineers, who will maintain a record hereof, and to auditors and socio-
economic monitors when they undertake reviews and post-project assessment. This
process shall be specified in all relevant project documents, including details of the
relevant authority for complaints at municipal/district or implementing agency level.
14



Attachment 2(i)
Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet
(To be used to record information on all land to be acquired)
1. Quantities of land/structures/other assets required:
2. Date to be acquired:
3. Locations:
4. Owners:
5. Current uses:
6. Users:
*     Number of Customary claimants:
*     Number of Squatters:
*     Number of Encroacher:
*     Number of Owners:
*     Number of Tenants:
*     Others (specify):        Number:
7. How land/structures/other assets will be acquired (identify one):
*     Donation
*     Purchase
8. Transfer of title:
*     Ensure these lands/structures/other assets free of claims or encumbrances.
*     Written proof must be obtained (notarized or witnessed statements) of the
voluntary donation, or acceptance of the prices paid, from those affected, together
with proof of title being vested in the community, or guarantee of public access,
by the title-holder.
9. Describe grievance mechanisms available:
15



Attachment 2(ii)
Format to Document Contribution of Assets
The following agreement has been made on .day of.
between ..........                   resident of ......                     (the Owner)
and ...................................          (the Recipient).
1. That the Owner holds the transferable right of .jerib of
land/structure/asset in....................................................................................
2. That the Owner testifies that the land/structure is free of squatters or encroachers and
not subject to other claims.
3. That the Owner hereby grants to the Recipient this asset for the construction and
development of .........            for the benefit of the villagers and the public at large.
(Either, in case of donation.)
4. That the Owner will not claim any compensation against the grant of this asset.
(Or, in case of compensation.)
4. That the Owner will receive compensation against the grant of this asset as per the
attached Schedule.
5. That the Recipient agrees to accept this grant of asset for the purposes mentioned.
6. That the Recipient shall construct and develop the ........................ and take all
possible precautions to avoid damage to adjacent land/structure/other assets.
7. That both the parties agree that the ........................... so constructed/developed
shall be public premises.
8. That the provisions of this agreement will come into force from the date of signing of
this deed.
Signature of the Owner:                      Signature of the Recipient:
Witnesses:
1.
2.
(Signature, name and address)
16



Schedule of
Compensation of Asset Requisition
Summary of                Units to be Compensated          Agreed
Compensation
affected unit/item
a. Urban/agricultural
land (mi):
b. Houses/structures to be
demolished (units/rn):
c. Type of structure to be
demolished (e.g. mud,
brick, etc.)                                            Not Applicable.
d. Trees or crops affected:
e. Water sources affected:
Signatures of local community representatives, shura head:
Include record of any complaints raised by affected persons:
Map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas):
17



Attachment 3
Protection of Cultural Property
Physical culture includes monuments, structures, works of art, or sites of "outstanding
universal value" from the historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological, or anthropological
point of view, including unrecorded graveyards and burial sites. Within this broader
definition, cultural property is defined as sites and structures having archaeological,
paleontological, historical, architectural, or religious significance, and natural sites with
cultural values.
The proposed emergency reconstruction operations are unlikely to pose a risk of
damaging cultural property, as the sub-projects will largely consist of small investments
in community infrastructure and income generating activities, reconstruction of existing
structures, and minor urban public works. Further, the negative list of attributes, which
would make a subproject ineligible for support (Attachment 1), includes any activity that
would significantly damage non-replicable cultural property. Nevertheless, the following
procedures for identification, protection from theft, and treatment of chance finds should
be followed and included in standard bid documents.
Chance Find Procedures
Chance find procedures are defined in the law on Maintenance of Historical and Cultural
Monuments (Official Gazette, December 21, 1980), specifying the authorities and
responsibilities of cultural heritage agencies if sites or materials are discovered in the
course of project implementation. This law establishes that all moveable and immovable
historical and cultural artifacts are state property, and further:
1. The responsibility for preservation, maintenance and assessment of historical and
cultural monuments rests with the Archaeological Committee under the Ministry
of Information and Culture, which has representation at provincial level.
2. Whenever chance finds of cultural or historical artifacts (moveable and
immovable) are made the Archaeological Committee should be informed. Should
the continuation of work endanger the historical and cultural artifacts, the project
work should be suspended until a solution is found for the preservation of these
artifacts.
3. If a moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact is found in the
countryside of a province, the provincial govemor (wali) or district-in-charge
(woluswal) should be informed within two weeks, and they should inform the
Archaeological Committee. In case the immovable historical or cultural artifact is
found in a city, the provincial branch of the Department of Maintenance of
Historical Values of the Ministry of Information and Culture should be informed
within two weeks (art. 18). If the find is made within the center, the
Archaeological Committee must be informed directly within one week (art. 25).
18



4. Failure to report a chance find within the stipulated time limit will be punished
with a fine or imprisonment for a period of one week or up to one month (art. 72).
5. If someone intentionally damages a historical or cultural artifact, the culprit shall
pay compensation in accordance with the value of the artifact plus be imprisoned
for a period of one month to ten years depending on the gravity of the crime (art.
71).
In case of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact, the
implementing agency is responsible for securing the artifact from theft, pilferage and
damage until the responsibility has been taken over by the relevant authorities as
specified above.
These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts,
when applicable. During project supervision, the Site Engineer shall monitor that the
above regulations relating to the treatment of any chance find encountered are
observed.
Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank Project Supervision Reports
(PSRs), and Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall
effectiveness of the project's cultural resources mitigation, management, and capacity
building activities, as appropriate.
19



Attachment 4
Codes of Practice for Prevention and Miti2ation of Environmental Impacts
Potential Impacts          |           Pre%ention and NMitigation Mleasures
V 'ater Supply
Disease caused by poor water quality:  .     Prioritize leak detection and repair of pipe networks.
*      contamination by seepage from  *      Chemical and bacteriological testing of water quality
latrines, municipal waste or            from adjacent comparable sources prior to installation of
agricultural areas.                    new sources.
*      high mineral concentrations.   *      Redesign to prevent contamination if adjacent
*      creation of stagnant pools of      comparable sources are found to be contaminated.
water.                             *      Subsequent monitoring of installed or rehabilitated
sources.
*      Appropriate location, apron and drainage around
tubewells and dug wells to prevent formation of stagnant
pools.
*      Provision of cover and hand-pump to prevent
contamination of dug wells.
*      Where pit latrines are used they should be located
more than 1 Om from any water source. The base should
be sealed and separated by at least 2m of sand or loamy
soil from the groundwater table.
*      Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they
should be sealed. Outflows should drain either to a
soakaway located at least 1Om from any water source or
be connected to a working drain.
Depletion of water source:            *      Urban interventions and abstraction limits to be
*      over-exploitation of aquifers.     planned in the context of groundwater investigations.
*      hazard of land subsidence.     *      Local water use planning (community and technical
consultation).
Sanitation (on-site systems)
Contamination of water supplies:      *      Where pit latrines are used they should be located
*      contamination of groundwater       more than 1 Om from any water source. The base should
because of seepage.                    be sealed and separated vertically by not less than 2m of
*      contamination of surface waters    sand or loamy soil from the ground water table.
due to flooding or over-flowing.   *      Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they
should be sealed. Outflows should drain either to a
soakaway located at least 1Om from any water source or
be connected to a working drain.
.      Maintenance training to be delivered along with new
latrines.
Disease caused by poor handling       .   Training and health education to be provided to nightsoil
practices of nightsoil.                   handlers where affected by interventions.
*   Protective clothing and appropriate containers for
nightsoil transportation to be provided.
20



Potential Impacts                       Prevention and Nlitigation Nleasures
Disease caused by inadequate excreta   *   Nightsoil should be handled using protective clothing to
disposal or inappropriate use of latrines.  prevent any contamination of workers skin or clothes.
*   Where night-soil is collected for agricultural use it should
be stored for a sufficient period to destroy pathogens
through composting. At the minimum it should be stored
in direct sunlight and turned regularly for a period of at
least 6 weeks.
*   Septic tanks should not be constructed nor septic waste
collected unless primary and secondary treatment and
safe disposal is available.
*   Health and hygiene education to be provided for all users
of latrines.
*   Awareness campaign to maintain sanitary conditions.
Solid WVaste
Disease caused by inadequate collection  *    Sufficient frequency of collection from transfer
and disposal, including health risks       stations.
from:                                  *      Containment of waste during collection and transfer.
* insects, rats.                       *      Promote separation at source to reduce spreading by
* burning of waste.                        rag-pickers during recycling.
* industrial/medical waste.           *       Minimize burning.
*      Separate collection and disposal system for medical or
hazardous wastes.
*      Assess requirement for additional investment in final
disposal site.
Contamination of water supplies:       .      Site transfer stations should have sealed base and be
*      lateral seepage into surface        located at least 15m away from water sources with the
waters.                                 base separated vertically by not less than 2m of sand or
*      seepage of contaminants into       loamy soil from the ground water table.
aquifers.                           *      Assess requirement for additional investment in final
*      contamination from clandestine      disposal site to protect water sources.
dumping.                            *      Monitoring of site to prevent illegal dumping
Roads
Disruption of drainage:                *      Design to provide adequate drainage and to minimize
.      hampers free drainage, causes       changes in flows, not limited to the road reserve.
stagnant pools of water.            *      Provision of energy dissipaters, cascades, steps, and
*      increased sediments into ponds,     check dams.
streams and rivers due to erosion   *      Provision of sufficient number of cross drains.
from road tops and sides.           *      Balancing of cut and fill.
*      increased run-off and flooding.  *     Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
*      Rehabilitation of borrow areas.
21



Potential Impacts                       Prevention and Mitigation Nleasures
Erosion:                               *      Design to prevent soil erosion and maintain slope
* erosion of land downhill from the        stability.
road bed, or in borrow areas.              Construction in the dry season.
. landslides, slips or slumps.        *       Protection of soil surfaces during construction.
* Bank failure of the borrow pit.     *       Physical stabilization of erodible surfaces through
turfing, planting a wide range of vegetation, and creating
slope breaks.
*      Rehabilitation and re-grading of borrow pits and
material collection sites.
Loss of vegetation:                    *      Balancing of cut and fill.
*      Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
*      Minimize loss of natural vegetation during
construction.
*      Revegetation and replanting to compensate any loss of
plant cover or tree felling.
Loss of access:                               Design to include accessibility to road sides in case
roadbed is raised.
*      Alternative alignments to avoid bisecting villages by
road widening.
Impacts during construction:           *      Provision of fuel at work camps to prevent cutting of
*      fuelwood collection.                firewood.
*      disease due to lack of         *       Provision of sanitation at work camps.
sanitation.                         *      Removal of work camp waste, proper disposal of oil,
*      introduction of hazardous           bitumen and other hazardous wastes.
wastes.                             *      Management of construction period worker health and
*      ground/water contamination          safety.
(oil, grease).
*      accidents during construction.
Housing and Public Buildings
Deforestation caused by:               *      Replace timber beams with concrete where
*      unsustainable use of timber.        structurally possible.
.      wood-firing of bricks.          *      Ensure fired bricks are not wood-fired.
*      Where technically and economically feasible,
substitute fired bricks with alternatives, such as sun-dried
mud bricks, compressed earth bricks, or rammed earth
construction.
Injury and death from earthquake:      *      Apply low-cost aseismic structural designs.
Disease caused by inadequate provision  *     Ensure designs include adequate sanitary latrines and
of water and sanitation:                   access to safe water.
22



Environmental criteria for Design of sub-proiects
Housing Reconstruction
Avoid sensitive areas as housing sites (see Attachment 1)
Adequate sizing of dwelling units and toilets
Layout of infrastructure - proper grades to prevent water logging; avoid
contamination of water supply by wastewater
Use environmentally benign techniques such as vegetative protection, rather than
'hard' engineering solutions as far as possible for stabilizing of slopes for housing in
hilly areas
Use rational, rather than highest, building code standards - setbacks, Floor-space, etc.
to maximize utility of existing resources
Water and wastewater conveyance
See layout of infrastructure above
Use locally available material in drain construction wherever possible
Provide manholes at more frequent intervals to ensure that any material clogging the
drains can be accessed more easily
Provide adequate space for siting treatment and disposal facilities
Solid waste collection and disposal
Ensure that collection trips are routed and timed to avoid sensitive locations and
periods.
Provide the locations of kerbside collection bins as far away from drains as practical
to avoid clogging of the drains due to spilled, neglected, blown over garbage
Site the storage and disposal locations with due consideration of access by animals,
especially rodents, migration of leachate to ground and at times surface waters, etc.
Avoid disposal by open burning of waste
Include in the layout of the disposal facility, a screen, preferably using trees (green
belt) to shield visual blight as well as act as wind barrier to the site.
Road and street construction and repairs
Avoid environmentally sensitive locations
Use locally available material as far as possible
Be prepared to use slightly lower standards than the highest in order to accommodate
local concerns - social, cultural and environmental
Provide adequate street crossings for people and animals and non-motorized transport
wherever these are identified as a characteristic of the neighborhood
23



Attachment 5
Format for
Limited Environmental Assessment (LEA)
Context of LEAs
The LEAs to be carried out for individual schemes to be rehabilitated as part of the EURP will
draw upon Attachment 4 of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Framework.
They will guide the process of assessing the potential impacts and examining candidate
mitigation measures for each environmental concern. This format is a guide to the reporting of the
assessment carried out as per those matrices. It will provide documentary evidence of
environmental considerations in decision-making at the sub-project level and streamline the
processing of the schemes during implementation. It will also act as a reference for executing
mitigation and management measures selected during the assessment.
Outline of an LEA
Description of the project area
This section will include concise description of the project area, its inhabitants, their current
condition, existing urban infrastructure, etc. Describe current practices with respect to water
supply, sanitation, solid waste, drainage etc.
Project Interventions
This will include various improvements considered under the project. It will include a rationale
for selection of a particular treatment over others (if alternatives were considered). A concise
overview of the benefits will also be provided.
Existing Environmental Scenario (draw on site visits and secondary sources)
Biophysical Environment
Topography - slope
Soil - Structure, Salinity
Water - quality and quantity
Flora and Fauna within the study area (include terrestrial and aquatic)
Socio-Economic Environment
Income levels
Amenities available - water supply, etc.
Health and Hygiene
Role of Women
Impacts Anticipated (draw on site visits, secondary sources and Attachment 4)
Biophysical Environment
Topography changes - landform, erosion
Soil structure - moisture retention capacity, stability, increased salinity
Water - qualitative changes due to increased salinity, use of chemicals



Flora and fauna - loss of habitat, impeding migration
Socio-economic Impacts
Changes in income - distribution and timing
Changes in amenities - impact of construction period increased population, long-
term Demographic changes due to improved urban services
Health and Hygiene - risk of increased spread of disease, etc.
Mitigation Measures and Implementation Responsibilities (Use Attachment 4)
Stage of the project  Anticipated Impact  Selected Mitigation  Implementation
Environmental        Measure              Responsibility
attribute
Budgetary Estimates
Stage of the project  Mitigation measure  Quantity / Time input  Amount
25



Attachment 6
Generic Terms of Reference for a full Environmental Assessment
Introduction
Since the Loya Jirga in 2002, a new Afghanistan is being built by the concerted efforts of the
Afghan people. The Government of Afghanistan (GoA) intends to upgrade and expand its urban
infrastructure to enhance the quality of life and promote the economic development potential of
its urban centers. For achieving this objective, it has decided to take up several large urban
infrastructure projects. GoA wants that the proposed development occurs with due regard for the
environmental and social concerns associated with such development. The Ministry of Urban
Development and Housing (MUDH) wishes to engage the services of a consultant to carry out the
Environmental Impact Assessment of large / new schemes during the project preparation stage to
ensure that these key concerns are addressed early in project development. While the MUDH is
the nodal ministry for the project, inputs are also expected from the Municipalities of  and
urban sector institutions such as
Project Background
The Government of Afghanistan is to avail IDA credit for the rehabilitation and expansion of its
urban infrastructure. The proposed multi-component Emergency Urban Reconstruction Project
(EURP) aims to improve urban infrastructure, including water supply, sanitation, solid waste,
drainage, urban roads, housing etc.. One component of this project is also financing preparation
of feasibility studies for large urban infrastructure schemes which may be taken up in the future.
As part of the EURP, detailed Environmental Impact Assessments are to be carried out for
candidate large/new projects identified, to feed into the overall project preparation. The XYZ
project is being prepared as part of this component. {Provide a plan of the area that will be
affected either indirectly or directly. Basic data should be given on existing and proposed urban
infrastructure in the area and the area characteristics, if available. }
Objectives
This study is being carried out to ensure that environmental implications of the proposed XYZ
project have been identified, analyzed and clearly communicated to the decision makers. In order
to achieve this target, the following objectives have been set:
a. To prepare inventory of the biophysical and socio-economic environmental attributes in
the study area;
b. To involve the local population in project preparation through active consultations which
could also assist in identifying the attributes important to them;
c. To identify and assess the magnitude and significance of impacts due to the proposed
activities on the attributes identified;
d. To consider a range of proposals should be considered and if so whether they would be
less environmentally damaging;
e. To propose avoidance, mitigation and enhancement measures for adverse and positive
impacts;
f  To assess the current capacity for environmental management to develop institutional
arrangements for this and subsequent (like) projects; and
26



g. To prepare an environmental management plan to ensure implementation of the
management measures selected from the ones proposed, along with budgetary allocation
(to feed into the overall project cost estimates) and institutional responsibility.
Environmental Assessment Requirements
The Environmental Assessment shall be guided by the requirements of OP4.0 1 and other relevant
safeguard policies of the World Bank such as OP4.04, etc.
Scope of Work
The current information has led to the development of the following tasks, which may be
modified with consent of the MUDH if new information comes to light during the course of the
study (e.g. the presence of sensitive receptors not known when the ToR is finalized).
Task 1. Description of the Proposed Project. General design and extent of urban infrastructure
works, size and specifics of project area; operation and maintenance of urban infrastructure
works.
Task 2. Description of the Environment. Assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on the
relevant environmental characteristics of the study area. Include information on any changes
anticipated before the project commences.
(a) Physical environment: geology; topography; soils; climate and meteorology;
ambient air quality; surface and ground- water hydrology; existing sources of air
emissions; existing water pollution discharges; and receiving water quality.
(b)  Biological environment: flora; fauna; rare or endangered species; sensitive habitats,
including parks or preserves, significant natural sites, etc.; species of commercial
importance; and species with potential to become nuisances, vectors or dangerous.
(c)  Socio-cultural environment: land use (including current crops and cropping
patterns); land tenure and land titling; present water supply and water uses, control
over allocation of resource use rights.
Task 3. Legislative and Regulatory Considerations. Describe the pertinent regulations and
standards governing environmental quality, health and safety, protection of sensitive areas,
protection of endangered species, siting, land use control, etc., at international, national, if any.
Task 4. Determination of the Potential Impacts of the Proposed Project. Potential impacts to be
assessed include:
(a)    Project location: resettlement of people; loss of forest land; loss of agricultural
land (cropping and grazing); impact on flora and fauna; impact on historic and
cultural sites; effects on water resources outside and inside command area.
(b)    Project Design: disruption of hydrology; drainage problems; design of urban
structures; crossings for people and animals.
(c)    Construction Works: soil erosion; construction spoils (disposal of); sanitary
conditions and health risks associated with construction camp and workers coming
into area; social and cultural conflicts between imported workers and local people.
27



(d)   Project Operation:      water and air pollution;        impacts on
soils; changes in ground water levels inside and
outside command area; changes in surface water quality
and risks of eutrophication; incidence of water-borne
and water-related diseases, water quality testing and
monitoring.
(e)   Cumulative and long-term effects
Task 5. Analysis of Alternatives to the Proposed Project. Describe alternatives that were
examined in the course of developing the proposed project and identify other alternatives which
would achieve the same objectives. The concept of alternatives extends to siting, design,
technology selection, construction techniques and phasing, and operating and maintenance
procedures. Compare alternatives in terms of potential environmental impacts; capital and
operating costs; suitability under local conditions; and institutional, training, and monitoring
requirements. When describing the impacts, indicate which are irreversible or unavoidable and
which can be mitigated. To the extent possible, quantify the costs and benefits of each alternative,
incorporating the estimated costs of any associated mitigating measures. Include the alternative of
not constructing the project, in order to demonstrate environmental conditions without it.
Task 6. Development of Environmental Management Plan, with focus on three generic areas:
Mitigation measures, institutional strengthening and training, and monitoring. The emphasis on
each of these areas depends on the needs in the specific project context, as identified by the EA
itself.
*    Mitigation of environmental impact: Recommend feasible and cost-effective measures
to prevent or reduce significant negative impacts to acceptable levels. Estimate the
impacts and costs of those measures. Consider compensation to affected parties for
impacts which cannot be mitigated. The plan should include proposed work programs,
budget estimates, schedules, staffing and training requirements, and other necessary
support services to implement the mitigating measures.
*    Institutional strengthening and training:  Identification of institutional needs to
implement environmental assessment recommendations. Review the authority and
capability of institutions at local, provincial/regional, and national levels and
recommend steps to strengthen or expand them so that the management and monitoring
plans in the environmental assessment can be implemented. The recommendations may
extend to new laws and regulations, new agencies or. agency functions, intersectoral
arrangements, management procedures and training, staffing, operation and
maintenance training, budgeting, and financial support.
*    Monitoring:  Prepare detailed arrangements for monitoring implementation of
mitigating measures and the impacts of the project during construction and operation.
Include in the plan an estimate of capital and operating costs and a description of other
inputs (such as training and institutional strengthening) needed to carry it out.
Task 7. Assist in Inter-Agency Coordination and Public/NGO Participation. Assist in
coordinating the environmental assessment with other government agencies, in obtaining the
views of local NGO's and affected groups, and in keeping records of meetings and other
activities, communications, and comments and their disposition.
Reporting Requirements
28



(I)        Inception Report: The Consultant will submit an Inception report confirming the
methodology to be adopted for the study, the deployment schedule of personnel, a
schedule of site visits to be carried out and a reporting schedule, within a fixed time from
the date of beginning of the assignment. The consultant may want to carry out a
reconnaissance survey before submitting the inception report.
(II)       Environmental Impact Assessment: The EA report should include the following
items (not necessarily in the order shown):
(a)    Executive summary. Concisely discusses significant findings and recommended
actions.
(b)    Policy, legal, and administrative framework. Discusses the policy, legal, and
administrative framework within which the EA is carried out. Explains the
environmental requirements of any co-financiers. Identifies relevant international
environmental agreements to which the country is a party.
(c)    Project description. Concisely describes the proposed project and its geographic,
ecological, social, and temporal context, including any offsite investments that may
be required (e.g., dedicated pipelines, access roads, power plants, water supply,
housing, and raw material and product storage facilities). Indicates the need for any
resettlement plan or indigenous peoples development plan {see also subpara. (h)(v)
below}. Normally includes a map showing the project site and the project's area of
influence.
(d)    Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the study area and describes relevant
physical, biological, and socioeconomic conditions, including any changes
anticipated before the project commences. Also takes into account current and
proposed development activities within the project area but not directly connected
to the project. Data should be relevant to decisions about project location, design,
operation, or mitigatory measures. The section indicates the accuracy, reliability,
and sources of the data.
(e)    Environmental imnpacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely positive and
negative impacts, in quantitative terms to the extent possible. Identifies mitigation
measures and any residual negative impacts that cannot be mitigated. Explores
opportunities for environmental enhancement. Identifies and estimates the extent
and quality of available data, key data gaps, and uncertainties associated with
predictions, and specifies topics that do not require further attention.
(f)    Analysis of alternatives. Systematically compares feasible alternatives to the
proposed project site, technology, design, and operation-including the "without
project" situation-in terms of their potential environmental impacts; the feasibility
of mitigating these impacts; their capital and recurrent costs; their suitability under
local conditions; and their institutional, training, and monitoring requirements. For
each of the alternatives, quantifies the environmental impacts to the extent possible,
and attaches economic values where feasible. States the basis for selecting the
particular project design proposed and justifies recommended emission levels and
approaches to pollution prevention and abatement.
(g)    Environmental management plan      (EMP). Covers     mitigation  measures,
monitoring, and institutional strengthening; see outline (in III) below.
29



(h) Appendixes
(i) List of EA report preparers-individuals and organizations.
(ii) References-written materials both published and unpublished, used in study
preparation.
(iii) Record of interagency and consultation meetings, including consultations for
obtaining the informed views of the affected people and local nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs). The record specifies any means other than consultations
(e.g., surveys) that were used to obtain the views of affected groups and local
NGOs.
(iv) Tables presenting the relevant data referred to or summarized in the main text.
(v) List of associated reports (e.g., resettlement plan or indigenous peoples
development plan).
lIII)   Environmental Management Plan: The consultant will submit an environmental
management plan (in line with Annex C of OP4.01) which will include the following
components.
(a)  Mitigation The EMP identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that may
reduce potentially significant adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels.
The plan includes compensatory measures if mitigation measures are not feasible,
cost-effective, or sufficient.
(b)  Monitoring Environmental monitoring during project implementation provides
information about key environmental aspects of the project, particularly the
environmental impacts of the project and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
Such information enables the borrower and the Bank to evaluate the success of
mitigation as part of project supervision, and allows corrective action to be taken
when needed. Therefore, the EMP identifies monitoring objectives and specifies
the type of monitoring, with linkages to the impacts assessed in the EA report and
the mitigation measures described in the EMP.
(c)  Capacity  Development and    Training  To   support timely  and  effective
implementation of environmental project components and mitigation measures, the
EMP draws on the EA's assessment of the existence, role, and capability of
environmental units on site or at the agency and ministry level. If necessary, the
EMP recommends the establishment or expansion of such units, and the training of
staff, to allow implementation of EA recommendations. Specifically, the EMP
provides a specific description of institutional arrangements-who is responsible
for carrying out the mitigatory and monitoring measures (e.g., for operation,
supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action,
financing, reporting, and staff training). To strengthen environmental management
capability in the agencies responsible for implementation, most EMPs cover one or
more of the following additional topics: (a) technical assistance programs, (b)
procurement of equipment and supplies, and (c) organizational changes.
30



(d)  Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates For all three aspects (mitigation,
monitoring, and capacity development), the EMP provides (a) an implementation
schedule for measures that must be carried out as part of the project, showing
phasing and coordination with overall project implementation plans; and (b) the
capital and recurrent cost estimates and sources of funds for implementing the
EMP. These figures are also integrated into the total project cost tables.
(e)    Integration of EMP with Project The borrower's decision to proceed with a project, and
the Bank's decision to support it, are predicated in part on the expectation that the EMP will be
executed effectively. Consequently, the Bank expects the plan to be specific in its description of
the individual mitigation and monitoring measures and its assignment of institutional
responsibilities, and it must be integrated into the project's overall planning, design, budget, and
implementation. Such integration is achieved by establishing the EMP within the project/contract
documents so that the plan will receive funding and supervision along with the other components.
31



Attachment 7
Generic Terms of Reference for a full Social Assessment
1. Introduction
Since the Loya Jirga in 2002, a new Afghanistan is being built by the concerted efforts of the
Afghan people. The Government of Afghanistan (GoA) intends to upgrade and expand its urban
infrastructure to enhance the quality of life and promote the economic development potential of
its urban centers. For achieving this objective, it has decided to take up several large urban
infrastructure projects. GoA wants that the proposed development occurs with due regard for the
environmental and social concerns associated with such development. The Ministry of Urban
Development and Housing (MUDH) wishes to engage the services of a consultant to carry out the
Environmental Impact Assessment of large / new schemes during the project preparation stage to
ensure that these key concerns are addressed early in project development. While the MUDH is
the nodal ministry for the project, inputs are also expected from the Municipalities of  and
urban sector institutions such as
2. Project Background
The Government of Afghanistan is to avail IDA credit for the rehabilitation and expansion of its
urban infrastructure. The proposed multi-component Emergency Urban Reconstruction Project
(EURP) aims to improve urban infrastructure, including water supply, sanitation, solid waste,
drainage, urban roads, housing etc.. One component of this project is also financing preparation
of feasibility studies for large urban infrastructure schemes which may be taken up in the future.
As part of the EURP, detailed Environmental Impact Assessments are to be carried out for
candidate large/new projects identified, to feed into the overall project preparation. The XYZ
project is being prepared as part of this component. {Provide a plan of the area that will be
affected either indirectly or directly. Basic data should be given on existing and proposed urban
infrastructure in the area and the area characteristics, if available. }
3. Objectives
Social Assessment (SA) through participatory planning has specific functions to assess the social
issues and impacts on affected populations which helps to design mitigation plans in order to
improve their quality of life and a strategy for participatory implementation. This study is being
carried out to ensure that social implications of the proposed XYZ project have been identified,
analyzed and clearly communicated to the decision makers. In order to achieve this target, the
broad objective is to identify, develop and incorporate social measures into project planning,
preparation, implementation and monitoring as a means of identifying and addressing direct and
indirect social outcomes through all aspects of project execution. This process needs to be carried
out at each stage of project preparation namely feasibility and detailed project report (DPR) stage.
To carry out the detailed assessments at various stages a detailed work-plan needs to be provided
as part of the inception report. The following provides specifies objectives, activities and outputs
to complete the SA process:
32



4. Specific Objectives
SA is an approach for incorporating social analyses and participatory processes into project
design and implementation. The specific objectives of the SA are:
(a) To carry out a socio-economic, cultural and political/institutional analysis to identify
potential social impacts of the proposed projects;
(b) To identify principal stakeholders and develop consultation framework for participatory
implementation;
(c) To screen social development issues and scope SA activities for feasibility and design
stage;
(d) To ensure that results of the SA provide inputs to the monitoring of project impacts
during implementation and to the evaluation of project outcomes at completion;
(e) To provide inputs to the project design at the feasibility and detailed design stage
including specific recommendations in selection of design alternatives (identification of
areas that may require adjustments in project designs) and preparing social policy
framework;
(f) Develop a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) that includes comprehensive mitigation
measures to ensure that the affected and displaced persons are appropriately resettled and
rehabilitated i.e. to assist them to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at
least to restore them, in real terms.
(g) Assess the current capacity for management of social impacts, develop institutional
arrangements for this and subsequent (like) projects and formulate a training and capacity
building plan.
Scope of Work
(i) Stage I - Feasibility Stage:
To determine the magnitude of potential impacts and ensure mainstreaming of social
considerations in selection and design of proposed projects.
(a) Social screening and preliminary assessment will be carried out to determine nature,
magnitude of adverse social impacts and specific of social issues to scope out social
issues for detailed assessment.
(b) To inform, consult and carry out dialogues with stakeholders on matters regarding project
design alternatives, implementation of social mitigation measures and provide specific
recommendations with high social risks, including, presence of significant common
property that may require adjustments in project design.
(c) Assess the capacity of institutions and mechanism for implementing social risk
management instruments and recommend capacity building.
(d) Develop monitoring and evaluation mechanism to assess social development outcomes.
(e) Develop broad mitigative measures and prepare preliminary budget estimates.
33



SA Methods and Tools:
(a) For socio-economic, cultural and political/institutional analysis combine multiple tools
and employ a variety of methods for collecting and analyzing data, including both
quantitative and qualitative methods (expert and key informant interviews, focus group
discussions, beneficiary assessments, rapid and participatory rural appraisal, gender
analysis).
(b) Develop scoping techniques, interview schedules, field survey instruments and checklist
for data collection and discussions.
(c) Screen and scope to prioritize social issues through different techniques such as ranking
and composite index.
(d) The selection of SA methodology should emphasize consultation and participation of
project affected persons (PAPs), project implementing and executing agencies and other
stakeholders. The discussions with the relevant government officials, other institutions
and organizations in the civil society, should be participatory and broad-based, leading to
the identification, selection and agreement on project options.
Outputs:
The expected output will be a Social Screening report and findings integrated in the feasibility
report, including
(a) Findings of analysis and consultation framework for project.
(b) Outline of social risk management instruments as required.
(c) Recommendation for adjustments in designs during feasibility and detailed design stage.
(d) Scope of social impact assessment to define the universe of social issues for detailed
analysis for DPR.
(e) Guidelines for resettlement and rehabilitation measures.
(ii) Stage II - Detailed Project Report:
The social impact assessment will cover the directly affected populations to formulate
development strategies in order to assist in determining project impacts on the social, economic,
cultural, and livelihood activities of affected communities. This will establish a social baseline
against which changes resulting from the intervention can be measured in the future. The social
surveys will be carried out after demarcation of zone of impact.
(a) A census and socio-economic survey, including a detailed inventory of affected assets
would however, need to be carried out for all PAPs to establish a cut-off date, loss of
fixed assets such as structures and trees, livelihood or access to community resources and
categorise each type of losses as a result of project implementation.
(b) Assess local tenure and property rights arrangements which may include usufruct or
customary rights to the land or other resources taken for the project including common
property resources.
(c) Analysis of baseline information and its processing will include adequate measures to
compensate and assist the people to restore and improve their livelihood.
(d) Carry out market survey and focus group consultation with different social groups
34



including women to prepare socially, technically and economically feasible income
generations schemes including skill upgradation plans.
(e) Identify the land and prepare a plan for relocation in consultation with the project
displaced people with different social groups including women and local administration.
(f) Finalize estimate of land required that will be affected by zone of impact, resettlement
and economic rehabilitation and review land transfer procedure adopted in project area
for all types of activities related to project such as back water effect, distributary network,
approach roads and other civil works.
(g) Carry out meaningful public consultation with project affected people and other
stakeholders on the types of social risk management measures to ensure 1) that the
proposed mitigation measures are feasible to assist people to improve their livelihoods
and 2) provide opportunities and a plan to participate in planning and implementing
resettlement. Setting out mechanisms for community participation to set out priorities to
ensure consultation with project affected people and dialogues with government officials
from various departments, to make recommendations on measures necessary to mitigate
adverse impacts and enhance social outcomes.
(h) Determine, in consultation with government officials, the current replacement cost rates
for all types of affected assets and prepare detailed cost estimates for all types of affected
assets and for other assistance and allowances.
(i) For all those who are affected including ethnic minorities, the social and economic
benefits they receive should be consistent with their cultural preferences and decided in
consultation with affected communities.
(j) The assessment will incorporate all measures necessary to ensure compensation for assets
acquired at replacement cost, assistance to facilitate shifting of structures out of the
impact zone, and mitigation measures for loss of livelihood, or reduction in incomes for
PAPs. RAP is intended to be action-oriented and time-bound document. As such it should
be as precise and affirmative as possible, to facilitate approval by project authorities and
the WB. Clarifying the parameters of the RAPs during the early stages will ensure that
the RAP is a document focused on practical steps for implementation of R&R measures.
(k) Prepare the draft R & R framework in close coordination with the borrower and the
project affected people, based on type of losses expected, which describes entitlements
and mitigation measures needed to assist affected people, specially for the vulnerable in
accordance with World Bank guidelines.
(1) Assess institutional capacity and propose the institutional arrangement for
implementation of RAP, addressing grievances, and ensuring gender equity, and identify
the roles and responsibilities of each agency and develop a training program on R & R,
based on the assessment of the capacity of the implementing agency.
(m) To develop a time schedule to implement the action plan that synchronizes with civil
works.
(n) Conduct risk assessment for proposed mitigation measures and develop a risk assessment
framework.
(o) Develop user friendly software package for database on Project Affected Households and
families to enable monitoring.
35



Methods & Tools:
(a) Conduct census and baseline survey with the help of interview schedules and prepare
linear maps at appropriate scales showing each affected property to identify all project
affected households and assets.
(b) Conduct land surveys in project area with the assistance of government officials for
preparing land plan schedules.
(c) Conduct focus group discussions to discuss adjustment in designs.
(d) Conduct consultations with affected people, and district level workshops with
communities and executing organizations to finalize the implementation mechanism and
for informed decision making.
Output:
The following shall be the outputs:
(a) Final R&R policy.
(b) Final Resettlement Action Plan(RAP) including a capacity building & training plan for
project partners.
(c) Final data base of the socio- economic surveys.
5. Reporting Requirements
(a) Inception Report: The Consultant will submit an Inception report confirming the methodology
to be adopted for the study, the deployment schedule of personnel, a schedule of site visits to be
carried out and a reporting schedule, within a fixed time from the date of beginning of the
assignment. The consultant may need to carry out a reconnaissance survey before submitting the
inception report.
(b) Social Screening report: The expected output will be a Social Screening report and findings
integrated in the feasibility report, including findings of analysis and consultation framework for
project; outline of safeguard instruments as required; recommendation for adjustments in designs
during feasibility and detailed design stage; scope of social impact assessment to define the
universe of social issues for detailed analysis for DPR; and guidelines for resettlement and
rehabilitation measures.
(c) Resettlement Action Plan: Project description; method of study; analysis of alternatives;
minimization of adverse impacts; analyses of land tenure systems, land acquisition or transfer
mechanism and R&R polices; project area profile and Impact analyses of the project on affected
and displaced people with disaggregated data analyses of men and women; impact on land and
other assets vis-a-vis the total asset including impact on occupation (formal and informal) and
income (formal and informal sources) with disaggregated data analyses of both men and women;
relocation plan with alternate sites, selection of preferred sites in consultation with the affected
people, and planning for development of alternative sites; livelihood restoration plan with training
plan for skill upgradation, employment and credit; community participation and integration with
host population; restoration and relocation plan for cultural/common properties; institutional
arrangement specified with roles and responsibilities, and training plan for capacity building;
implementation schedule; monitoring, and evaluation plan, including indicators and reporting
36



formats; risk assessment; cost estimates including rate analysis, quantities for civil work items
and detailed budget.
Other Information
The consultant are advised to refer to the following World Bank policies in addition to any other
resources that they may deem fit:
1. OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
2. OPN 11.03 Cultural property
3. Involuntary Resettlement Sourcebook
In addition, the consultant may refer to www.worldbank.org/socialanalysissourcebook.
37



Attachment 8
Procedures for Mine Risk Management in World Bank-Funded Projects in
Afghanistan
Background:
The following procedures are designed to respond to the risks caused by the presence of
mines in Afghanistan, in the context of:
*  Community rehabilitation / construction works to be identified and implemented
by the communities themselves (for small projects of up to $100,000 each);
*  Small and medium-size works to be identified by local authorities and
implemented by local contractors (for projects up to $5m each);
*  Works to be implemented directly by Government departments/agencies, without
use of contractors;
*  Large works to be implemented by contractors (for projects above $5m);
General comment applying to all following procedures: All risk assessment and clearance
tasks shall be implemented in coordination with the Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
(MACA). These procedures may need to be amended in the future depending on
evolving circumstances.
Procedure for Community-Mananed Works
Applicability: This procedure applies to community rehabilitation / construction works to
be identified and implemented by the communities themselves (for small projects of up to
$100,000 each).
Overall approach: The communities should be responsible for making sure that the
projects they propose are not in mine-contaminated areas, or have been cleared by
MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA).
Rationale: Communities are best placed to know about mined areas in their vicinity, and
have a strong incentive to report them accurately as they will carry out the works
themselves.
Procedure:
1. Communities are required to submit a reply to a questionnaire regarding the suspected
presence of mines in the area where Bank-funded community-managed projects will be
implemented. This questionnaire should be formally endorsed by the Mine Action
Program for Afghanistan(MAPA). It will be a mandatory attachment to the project
submission by the communities and should be signed by community representatives and
the external project facilitator. External project facilitators will receive training from
38



MAPA. Financing agreements with the communities should make clear that communities
are solely liable in case of a mine-related accident.
2. If the community certifies that there is no known mine contamination in the area, the
ministry responsible for the selection of projects should check with MACA whether any
different observation is reported on MACA's data base.
o If MACA's information is the same, the project can go ahead for selection. The
community takes the full responsibility for the assessment, and external
organizations cannot be made liable in case of an accident.
o If MACA's information is different, the project should not go ahead for selection
as long as MACA's and community's statements have not been reconciled.
3. If the community suspects mine contamination in the area,
o If the community has included an assessment / clearance task in the project agreed
to be implemented by MACA (or by a mine action organization accredited by
MACA), the project can go ahead for selection.
o  If the community has not included an assessment / clearance task in the project,
the project should not go ahead for selection as long as this has not been
corrected.
o  Mine clearance tasks must be implemented by MACA or by a mine action
organization accredited by MACA. Communities will be penalized (subsequent
funding by World-Bank funded projects shall be reduced or cancelled) if they
elect to clear mines on their own.
Procedure for Small and Medium-size Works Contracted Out
Applicability: This procedure applies to small- and medium-size works to be identified
by local authorities and implemented by local contractors (for projects up to $5m each).
Overall approach: MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) should
provide detailed information on the mine-related risks (either based on previously done
and updated general survey or on a new general survey) before projects are considered
for selection. Only project sites assessed to have a nil-to-low risk would be eligible for
selection, unless they have been demined by MACA or by a mine action organization
accredited by MACA.
Rationale: Neither local authorities nor local contractors have the capacity to assess the
mine-related risks in a systematic way, while they may have incentives to underestimate
them.
Procedure:
39



1. Prior to putting up a project for selection, a general survey should be carried out
by MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) to assess mine-
related risks in the area of the project (this should include checking information
available in the MACA data base).
2. If MACA provides information suggesting a nil-to-low risk in the proposed
project area, the project can go ahead for selection.
3. The contract between the responsible ministry and the contractor will include a
clause stating that in case of an accident, legal liability would be fully and solely
borne by the contractor.
4. If MACA assesses a potentially high risk in the area (whether due to the presence
of mines or uncertainty),
o  If the project includes an assessment / clearance task agreed to be
implemented by MACA (or by a mine action organization accredited by
MACA), it can go ahead for selection based on agreed funding modalities
(clearance may be funded either under a contract with a Bank-funded project
or under existing donor agreements with the mine action organization);
o If the project does not included an assessment / clearance task, it should not
go ahead for selection as long as this has not been corrected.
Procedure for Works to be implemented directly by Government
Departments/A2encies, without use of contractors
Applicability: This procedure applies to works to be implemented directly by
Government departments/agencies, without use of contractors.
Overall approach: MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) should
provide detailed information on the mine-related risks (either based on previously done
and updated general survey or on a new general survey) before works or installation of
goods/materials are carried out in any given area. Work would only be allowed to
proceed in areas assessed to have a nil-to-low risk, unless they have been demined by a
mine action organization accredited by MACA.
Rationale: Govemment departments and agencies responsible for providing services
currently do not have the capacity to assess the mine-related risks in a systematic way,
and currently follow a process of consulting with MACA prior to carrying out activities.
Procedure:
1.    Prior to carrying out work, the Government department/agency will consult with
MACA to assess mine-related risks in the area (this should include checking information
40



available in the MACA data base). If not already done, a general survey should be
carried out by MACA (or by a mine action organization accredited by MACA) to assess
mine-related risks in the area.
2.    If MACA provides detailed information on mine-related risks which suggest a nil-
to-low risk in the proposed area, the work can proceed. The Government would be solely
liable in case of a mine-related accident.
3. If information provided by MACA cannot support the assessment of a nil-to-low risk
in the proposed area (whether due to the presence of mines or uncertainty), works should
not go ahead before MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) carries
out the necessary further assessment and/or clearance for risks to be downgraded to nil-
to-low, based on agreed funding modalities (clearance may be funded either under a
contract with a Bank-funded project or under existing donor agreements with the mine
action organization).
Procedure for Large Works Using Contractors
Applicability: This procedure applies to large works to be implemented by large
contractors (projects above $5m).
Overall approach: The main contractor should be responsible for dealing with mine-
related risks, in coordination with the UN Mine Action Center.
Procedure:
1. As part of the preparation of the bidding documents, a general survey should be
carried out by MACA (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) on all the
areas where contractors may have to work (broadly defined). This survey should
provide detailed information on mine-related risks in the various areas allowing for an
un-ambiguous identification of areas that have a nil-to-low risk of mine/UXO
contamination and areas where the risk is either higher or unknown. The survey
should be financed out of the preparation costs of the bidding documents.
2. All survey information should be communicated to the bidders (with sufficient legal
caveats so that it does not entail any liability), as information for the planning of their
activities (e.g., location of campsites, access roads to quarries).
3. Depending on the nature and location of the project and on the available risk
assessment, two different options can be used.
Option 1 - Mine-clearance activities are part of the general contract
a. Based on the general survey results, a specific budget provision for mine action
during construction is set aside as a separate provisional sum in the tender documents
for the general contract.
41



b. As a separately identified item in their bid, the bidders include a provision for a
further detailed mine assessment and clearance during construction.
c. On the instruction of the Supervision Engineer and drawing on the specific
provisional sum for mine action in the contract, the contractor uses one of several
nominated sub-contractors (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA) to be
rapidly available on call, to carry out assessment prior to initiation of physical works
in potentially contaminated areas, and to conduct clearance tasks as he finds may be
needed. The Contractor may also hire an international specialist to assist him in
preparing and supervising these tasks. The Contractor is free to chose which of the
accredited sub-contractors to use, and he is fully responsible for the quality of the
works and is solely liable in case of accident after an area has been demined.
d. To avoid an "over-use" of the budget provision, the Contractor is required to
inform the Supervision Engineer in writing (with a clear justification of the works to
be carried out) well in advance of mobilizing the mine-clearing team. The
Supervision Engineer has the capacity to object to such works.
Option 2 - Mine-clearance activities are carried out under a separate contract
a. Specific, separately-awarded contracts are issued for further surveying and/or
clearing of areas with a not-nil-to-low risk (under the supervision of the Engineer) by
specialized contractors (or a mine action organization accredited by MACA). The
definition of the areas to be further surveyed / cleared should be limited to those areas
where any contractor would have to work, and should not include areas such as camp
sites and quarries/material sites which are to be identified by the Contractor during
and after bidding of the works. As a result of these further surveys and possibly
clearance works, mine-related risk in the entire contract area is downgraded to nil-to-
low.
b. The c6ntract with the general Contractor specifies the extent of the portion of the
construction site of which the Contractor is to be given possession from time to time,
clearly indicating restrictions of access to areas where the mine risk is not nil-to-low.
It also indicates the target dates at which these areas will be accessible. Following
receipt of the notice to commence works from the Engineer, the Contractor can start
work in all other areas.
c. The general Contractor is invited to include in its bid an amount for mine-
security, to cover any additional survey / clearance he may feel necessary to
undertake the works.
4. In case of an accident, a Board of Inquiry is assembled by MACA to investigate on the
causes of the accident and determine liabilities. Large penalties should be applied on the
Contractor if the Board determines that the accident resulted from a breach of safety
rules.
42



5. All parties involved in this process are required to closely coordinate with MACA and
to provide the Government, local communities, MACA, as well as any interested party
the full available information on mine-related risks that may reasonably be required (e.g.,
maps of identified minefields, assessments for specific areas).
43



Matrix 1
Environmental Screening for sub-projects under the AEURP
Name of the sub-project:
City:_
Assessment {Put only one tick   Scheme specific
(V5 in each row}                observations, if
Activity           Potential Impacts       Impact NOT      Significant    any
significant  Impact requires
mitigation
measures
Construction of houses,  Land take
drains, roads, street    Removal of vegetation
repairs                  Pollution from ancillary
activities like hot-mix plants,
crushers, concrete batching
plants, etc.
Dust generation during
construction activities
Increased Noise due to
construction activities
Risks of accidents and spills
Potential for spread of water-
borne diseases
Increased traffic and
congestion due to
development of housing
colony
Cleaning up of existing  Potential risk of accidents due
networks of water supply  to widened excavation for
and wastewater           manhole or trenches
conveyance to improve    Health hazard caused due to
service delivery        indiscriminate disposal of
sludge removed from the
pipes, drains and other
appurtenances
Providing kerb-side      Clogging of open drains
collection of solid waste  conveying storm water and /
in previously lacking    or wastewater
such a service           Indiscriminate disposal of
collected waste causing a
health hazard
Provision of street      Accidents during construction
lighting                 stage
Hindrance to movement of
traffic in operation stage
44



Stamp & Signature of Authorized Official of the City Authority:
Date:
KEY IMPACTS IDENTIFIED
2.
3.
4.
MITIGATION MEASURES TO BE IMPLEMENTED (REFER TO MATRIX 2 & ATTACHMENTS 1 & 3)
1.
2.
3.
4.
AGENCY RESPONSIBLE FOR IMPLEMENTATION / SUPERVISION (REFER TO MATRIX 2)
1.
2.
3.
4.
TIMING OF IMPLEMENTATION WITH REFERENCE TO STAGE OF CIVIL WORKS CYCLE (DESIGN,
CONSTRUCTION OR OPERATION)
1.
2.
3.
4.
Stamp and Signature of the Authorized Official of the City Administration:
Date:
Place:
Stamp and Signature of Nodal Officer, M&E Cell,
MHUD:           H
Date:
Place:
45



Matrix 2
Compendium of Environmental Mitigation measures for Projects under AEURP
Part A: Construction stage Impacts
Activity       Potential      Mitigation Measures       Responsibility     Monitoring      Responsibility
Impacts                                   of Execution       measure &      of Monitoring
method
Construction   Land take      Compensation to be paid to  Consultant firm/  Record of      MUDH/
of houses                     affected persons as per   Municipality       transfer of     Municipality
Attachment 2 to the SEMF                     payment to
affected
persons
Removal of      Li  Planting saplings as  Consultant firm/   Provide        MUDH/
vegetation        compensation ( 2        Municipality       cleared land to  Municipality
saplings for each tree                     the Contractor
felled. This must be done                  after recording
after the construction                     the number of
activities have been                       trees cut, or
completed on site.                         after the
Alternatively, planting must                 planting is
be done well in advance of                   complete and
beginning of construction                    trees have
so that the trees have grown                 reached a
strong enough to resist                      specified
accidental hits during                       height
movement of construction
equipment
Dust            Li     Provide temporary  Contractor         Visual         Project
generation        enclosures to the site                     Inspection,    Management
during            using GI sheets and poles                  Check log      Consultant (PMC)
construction    Li     Provide cover on                      books
activities       trucks carrying
construction material.
Li     Provide protective
masks for workers
Li     Sprinkle water
within site, especially on
windy days
Noise due to   Li Avoid noise generating  Contractor         Visual         PMC
construction      activities during                          inspection of
activities        particular periods - times                 works,
of prayers, school hours,                  checking log
etc.                                       books
Li Discontinue all
operations during night
except if concreting
requires work to continue
during the night.
Li Provide ear plugs to
construction workers
manning noisy
equipment.
46



Activity       Potential       Mitigation Measures        Responsibility     Monitoring      Responsibility
Impacts                                    of Execution       measure &       of Monitoring
method
L Consider provision of
noise barriers by
landscaping, tree        PMC                                Municipality
plantation or even
double-glazing.
Risks of        El  Provide adequate       Contractor         Visual          PMC
accidents and     signages and fencing                        inspections,
spills            around the site.                            checking
Li  Train workers to                          logbooks
follow safety
instructions.
Lo Prepare contingency
plans for spillages, and
carry out mock drills.
Li  Provide adequate
notice of site/road
closures to locals.
Li  Provide adequate
detours around
construction areas.
Potential of    Li The site should be      Contractor         Measurements    PMC
spread of         graded after construction                   at the end of
water-borne       is finished to ensure                       construction
diseases          proper drainage of run-
off from the site.
Li  Prepare and execute
debris disposal plans.
Improving      Potential risk  Li  Meticulously follow    Contractor         Visual          PMC
service        of accidents      drawings prepared for                       inspections,
delivery       due to widened    the project.                                checking log
through        excavation for  Li  Install fencing for the                   books
cleaning up of  manhole or       period of construction in
existing       trenches          case of deep trenches.
networks of                    L   Provide training to
water supply                     workers on action to be
and                              taken in case they
wastewater                       encounter methane in
conveyance                       sewers.
Health hazard   Li  Provide adequately     Contractor         Visual          PMC
caused due to     sized sanitary landfill site                inspection,
indiscriminate    where such waste can be                     surveys of
disposal of       disposed of.                                citizens, etc.
sludge          Li  Train the workforce
removed from      and raise public
the pipes,        awareness regarding the
drains and        potential hazard of
other             indiscriminate disposal
appurtenances     of such sludge.
Li  Consider flushing the
system one-time to
dispose of the solids
rather than removing
sludge outside the
47



Activity       Potential       Mitigation Measures        Responsibility     Monitoring      Responsibility
Impacts                                    of Execution       measure &       of Monitoring
method
trenches.
Street lighting  Risk of       Li  Follow safety          Contractor         Visual          PMC
accidents         guidelines.                                 inspections
during          Li  Provide for personal
installation -    protective equipment -
falling objects,  gloves, hard hats, etc.
electric shocks,  Li  Provision of first-aid
etc.              kit on-site.
Shutdown of     LI  Carry out construction
power supply      during off-peak hours.   PMC/                               MUDH
Municipality
Provision of   Land take       Compensation to be paid to  Municipality      Record of       MUDH
access roads                   affected persons for new                      transfer of
or street                      access roads as per                           payment to
repairs                        Attachment 2 to the SEMF.                     affected
persons
Removal of      Li  Planting saplings as   Municipality/      Provide         Municipality/
vegetation        compensation @ 2         PMC                cleared land to  MUDH
saplings for each tree                      the Contractor
felled. This must be done                   after recording
after the construction                      the number of
activities have been                        trees cut, or
completed on site.                          after the
Alternatively, planting must                  planting is
be done well in advance of                    complete and
beginning of construction                     trees have
so that the trees have grown                  reached a
strong enough to resist                       specified
accidental hits during                        height
movement of construction
equipment
Pollution from  Li  Locate the hotmix      Contractor         Visual          PMC
ancillary         plant at least 500m away                    inspection,
activities like   from habitation                             Check
hotmix plant,   Li  Locate crushers and                       operation logs
concrete          concrete batching plants
batching          at least 1OOm from
plants, crusher   habitation
operations, etc.  OL  Provide and operate
emission control devices
like ESP or wet venturi
scrubber
LI Provide dust control
devices on crushers and
concrete batching plants
Dust            Li      Provide temporary  Contractor         Visual          PMC
generation        enclosures to the site                      Inspection,
during            using GI sheets and poles                   Check log
construction    Li      Provide cover on                      books
activities        trucks carrying
construction material.
Li      Provide protective
masks for workers
48



Activity       Potential      Mitigation Measures       Responsibility     Monitoring     Responsibility
Impacts                                  of Execution       measure &      of Monitoring
method
Li     Sprinkle water
within site, especially on
windy days
Noise due to   Li  Avoid noise generating  Contractor       Visual         PMC
construction     activities during                          inspection of
activities       particular periods - times                 works,
of prayers, school hours,                 checking log
etc.                                      books
o Discontinue all
operations during night
except if concreting
requires work to continue
during the night.
Li  Provide ear plugs to
construction workers
manning noisy
equipment.
O   Consider provision of
noise barriers by
landscaping, tree       Municipality                      MUDH
plantation or even
double-glazing.
Risks of        o  Provide adequate      Contractor         Visual         PMC
accidents and    signages and fencing                       inspections,
spills           around the site.                           checking
O   Train workers to                        logbooks
follow safety
instructions.
L Prepare contingency
plans for spillages, and
carry out mock drills.
o   Provide adequate
notice of site/road
closures to locals.
0   Provide adequate
detours around
construction areas.
49



Part B: Operation Stage Impacts
Activity       Potential      Mitigation Measures       Responsibility of  Monitoring     Responsibility of
Impacts                                  Execution          measure &      Monitoring
method
Construction   Increased      L3  Provide adequate RoW  City Authority     Copies of      MUDH
of housing     traffic and      from planning stage                       notifications to
congestion due   itself.                                    be filed
to development  o  Protect this RoW using                   Visual
of housing       appropriate devices -                      inspection
colony           notification, planting in
area currently not used
for the road, fencing, etc.
Providing      Clogging of    o   Fix up days on which  City Authority     Check for      MUDH
kerbside       open drains      the waste would be                         copies of
collection of  conveying        collected from the                        advertisements
solid waste in  storm water     kerbside in the locality.                 on file, Visual
areas          and / or       D   Educate the locals not                  monitoring
previously     wastewater       bring out household
lacking such a                  waste on days other than
service                         those on which collection
has been fixed.
Li Consider provision of
fixed metallic bins which
may be emptied during
collection.
Indiscriminate  Li Provide adequately    City Authority     Visual         MUDH
disposal of      sized sanitary landfill site              inspection,
collected waste  where such waste can be                    surveys of
causing a        disposed of.                               citizens, etc.
health hazard  El  Train the workforce
and raise public
awareness regarding the
potential hazard of
indiscriminate disposal
of such sludge.
Water supply  Increased       El  Provide simultaneous  City Authority    Inspection of   MUDH
improvement    sewage and       development of water as                   plans and
sullage to be    well as wastewater                         schemes
treated          conveyance , treatment
and disposal.
Access roads  Increased       Li  Provide adequate RoW  City Authority     Copies of      MUDH
and streets   traffic           from planning stage                       notifications to
itself.                                   be filed
Li Protect this RoW using                   Visual
appropriate devices -                     inspection
notification, planting in
area currently not used
for the road, fencing, etc.
Street lighting  Hindrance to  El  Locate street lights  City Authority    Plans to be   MUDH
traffic          appropriately                              verified before
execution
50



