                                                                                               OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                         IDA/R2004-0192/1

                                                                                                                   July 12, 2004




                                                                                    Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                          For meeting of
                                                                              Board: Thursday, July 29, 2004


FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                          Afghanistan: Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project

                                                   Technical Annex


         Attached is the Technical Annex regarding a proposed credit to the Islamic Republic of

Afghanistan for a Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project (IDA/R2004-0192). This project will be

taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Thursday, July 29, 2004 under the

streamlined procedure.



Distribution:
  Executive Directors and Alternates
  President
  Bank Group Senior Management
  Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
  Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                            Document of
                                          The WorldBank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo. T7629-AF




                                      TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                        FORA PROPOSED

                               CREDIT OF SDR 17.1MILLION

                               (US$25MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                               FORA

                       KABULURBANRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                                            July 1,2004



Energy andInfrastructureUnit

SouthAsia Region




This document hasa restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout the World Bank authorization

           CURRENCYEQUIVALENT
(exchange rate i s Kabulbasedopen market buyingrate)
             effective as of May 31,2004

    CurrencyUS$l
             Unit           -               Afghani
                            -               44.56 AFN
           SDR 1            -               US$1.4627

         GOVERNMENT FISCALYEAR
                  March21 - March20

       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADC                 Area Development Committee
AGCHO               Afghanistan Geodesy and Cartographic Head Office
ARCS                Audit Reports Compliance System
A R D S             Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services
ARTF                Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CAWSS               Central Authority for Water Supply and Sanitation
CMU                 CashManagement Unit
Cup                 Community UpgradingPlan
DBER                Department of Budget and Extemal Relations
EIRP                Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project
FMR                 Financial Monitoring Reports
GPU                 Govemment Procurement Unit
IDA                 InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IDP                 InternallyDisplacedPeople
IRA                 Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
JRC                 Judicial ReformCommission (JRC)
KM                  KabulMunicipality
KURP                Kabul UrbanReconstruction Project
LTTC                LandTenure Technical Committee
MOF                 MinistryofFinance
M O I               MinistryofInterior
MUDH                MinistryofUrbanDevelopment andHousing
NDF                 National Development Framework
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
PD&C                 Planning, Design and Contracts Management
PMU                  ProgramManagement Unit
SDU                  Special Disbursement Unit
SoE                  Statementof Expenditure
STT                  Systematic Titling Team
TSS                  Transitional Support Strategy
TSU                  Technical Support Unit
UNHCR                UnitedNations HighCommission for Refugees

           Vice President: Praful C. Pate1
         Country Director: Alastair J. Mckechnie
           Sector Director Vincent Gouame
          Sector Manager: Sonia Hammam
             Team Leader: RichardBeardmore

                                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFAFGHANISTAN

                         KABULURBANRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT

                                                 TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                     Table of Contents

     I BACKGROUNDANDSTRATEGY.....................................................................................
      .                                                                                                                                    1
        A. The Conflict.the Transition. andthe Emergency .........................................................                         1
        B. UrbanSector Issues...................................................................................................           2
        C. GovemmentResponseandStrategy............................................................................                        3
     I1.  WORLDBANKRESPONSE.................................................................................................               6
        A. The TransitionalSupport Strategy...............................................................................                 6
        B. Rationalefor WorldBankInvolvementinthe UrbanSector .........................................                                    6
     I11.C
         . LessonsLearned........................................................................................................ 7

        A. ProjectObjective.......................................................................................................
           THEPROPOSEDPROJECT.............................................................................................                 7
                                                                                                                                           7
     IvB INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTSANDPROJECTIMPLEMENTATION..........13
         . ProjectDescription....................................................................................................          8
        .
        A.                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                          14
        C. DisbursementandFinancialManagement.................................................................
           Procurement............................................................................................................
           ImplementationArrangements..................................................................................
        B.
                                                                                                                                          14
        D. EnvironmentalandSocial Safeguards.......................................................................                       16
        E. MonitoringandEvaluation.......................................................................................                 17
        F.  ConditionofProject Disbursement...........................................................................                    17
     V.G APPENDICES ...................................................................................................................... 19
          . Justification.............................................................................................................    18

        Appendix 1:Overviewofurban ServicesinKabul............................................................                            19
        Appendix 2: UpgradingComponent..................................................................................                  24
                                                                                                                                          37
        Appendix 4: EngineeringandManagementSupport...........................................................
        Appendix 3:LandTenureRegularization..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                          39
        Appendix 5: OverallCapacityBuildingfor KabulMunicipality..........................................                                41
        Appendix 6: Structure PlanningandFutureProjectPreparation..........................................                               43
                                                                                                                                          46
        Appendix 8: DetailedImplementationArrangements.........................................................
        Appendix 7: MainRoads.DrainsandTraffic ManagementinKabul...................................
                                                                                                                                          48
        Appendix 9: ProcurementArrangements......................................................................                         56
        Appendix 10: FinancialManagement.DisbursementandAudit Arrangements ....................                                           62
        Appendix 11:EnvironmentandSocialManagementFramework........................................                                       69
        Appendix 12:MonitoringandEvaluation..........................................................................                     76




This document has a restricted distribution and may beused by
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                               .
without World Bank authorization                       .


                 I.                BACKGROUNDAND STRATEGY

A.      The Conflict, the Transition, andthe Emergency

1.      Afghanistan i s one o f the poorest and longest sufferingcountries among members of the
World Bank, ravaged by chronic conflict and political instability. An estimated 4 to 7 million
people remain vulnerable to hunger with a large number dependent on inflows o f food and
humanitarian aid.     Afghanistan's infrastructure has been destroyed or degraded; its human
resource base severely depleted; and its social capital eroded.             Despite resilient public
administration structures, the majority o f state institutions are unable to function effectively, and
the economy and society have become fragmented.

2.      The aftermath of September 11, 2001 precipitated major changes in the political and
military situation in Afghanistan.    The collapse of the Taliban regime was followed by the
establishment o f the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan on December 5,
2001, in Bonn, Germany. The Bonn Agreement led to an understanding on a new structure o f
government and a process that will lead to the election of a fully representative government
within aperiodofabout 30 months.

3.      The Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) took over central administration on
December 22, 2001. An Emergency Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) took place in June 2002
during which a transitional administration was selected, paving the way for a new constitution
and an elected, fully representative government within 2 years. The Constitutional Loya Jirga
created the Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan (IRA) inDecember 2003. The IRAhas the power to
promulgate, repeal, and amend laws andregulations by decree.

4.      Despite being hampered by limited capacity and a difficult security situation in many
parts of the country, the IRAhas improvedthe quality o f governance and decision-makmg bothat
the center and inthe provinces. It has gained widespread internationalrecognition. The IRA has
put forward a compellingvision and strategy for nationalreconstruction embodied inits National
Development Framework (NDF, April 2002).

5.       IRA is currently coping with a range of challenges inthe urban sector, the most salient
being rapid urban growth owing to high natural population increase and influx o f retuming
refugees and displaced people. The country's total population o f 22 million i s growing at an
overall growth rate o f close to 2.8 per cent per year. Urban growth i s probably double this figure,
causing the urbanization rate to increase beyond its current level o f 23 per cent. Associated
shortagesof services abound. The urbanchallenge i s all the more daunting as a result o f pressing
land andhousing needs causedby a combination o fyears ofturmoil, a deterioratedhousing stock,
and arigidmasterplanning system.

6.       IRA'Sstrategy for responding to the challenge is embodied inthe National Development
Framework(NDF). UrbanManagement representsone o f the Twelve NationalPrograms included
in the current budget process. The goal of the Urban Management Program is `to invest in a
balanced urban development program across the country to create viable cities that are hubs of
economic activity, and organically linked to rural areas. The Program also seeks to `develop
urban areas in a balanced manner through housing and infrastructure investments, thereby
reducing overcrowding, improving access to basic services and generating employment and
economic growth'. (Afghanistan, Rebuilding Our Nation. March 2003).

B.       Urban Sector Issues

7.       The major issues facing IRA inthe urban sector include urban population displacement,
deficiencies inservices, lack of urban land and housing, and weak urban management as outlined
below.

8.       Urban Population Displacement. Two decades o f civil strife, and political conflicts have
resulted inthe displacement o fthe populationbothinsideand outside ofthe country, creating new
socio-economic and cultural problems. The continued movement o f Internally DisplacedPeople
(DP) and returnees from neighboring countries has intensified' since the creation o f the Islamic
Republic o f Afghanistan. Repeated urban displacement of the rural population, as well as the
recent influx o f refugees and IDPs (the overwhelming majority o f which were originally from
rural areas) to cities like Kabul, Kandahar, and Mazar, i s causing considerable change to the
social fabric o f many cities. Deficiencies inurban service provision have not only contributed to
these social costs buthave limitedeconomic growth.

9.       The choice of Afghan refugees to return to the cities of their country is frequently linked
to the benefits and interests o f urban life, particularly urban services such as water, electricity,
hospitals and schools which make a material and social difference to life. There i s also a greater
sense of security from violence and exploitation as well as morejob opportunities inurban areas.
These factors have a great influence inattracting women, especially those who have already been
exposed to better conditions o f life and urban opportunities elsewhere. The IDP and returnee
widows are the most vulnerable social group in the country and their successful integration into
urban society will be a challenge for post-conflict Afghanistan.

10.      Deficiencies in Urban Services. More than two decades of war have not only devastated
Afghanistan's infrastructure but have also deprived the country o f new investment that will have
raised services above prewar levels.      As a result, most Afghans have little or no access to
conventional urban services and must either go without or rely on costly alternatives. Health
costs are among the most serious, resulting from unsafe water and sanitation and indoor air
pollution from burning traditional biomass fuels. Poor health, social instability and a reduced
ability to seek work owing to the need to managebasic household requirementsfor water and fuel
are the most serious results o f service delivery deficiencies. Diarrhea is a major cause of infant
and childmortality and i s estimated to account for 27% o f deaths inchildren between birthand 1
year and 12% of deaths of children aged 1-5. Indoor air pollution, through the use of traditional
sandalees, affects about 82% o f vulnerable households, too poor to afford other forms o f heat.
Finally, poor living conditionspromote social instability.

11.      Other elements of urban infrastructure are also severely damaged or destroyed. About
40% of urban streets are damaged and 50% of drains are broken or do not function. Solid waste
collection i s limited to about half of all households and there are no properly managed sanitary
waste disposal sites in operation. Limited emergency efforts are on-going to address these
deficiencies. In Kabul 5,000 household connections for water supply have been provided and
pipedwater supply capacity has been doubled since June 2002. However, the programs require
scaling up within an agreedpolicy framework, including the use of the private sector.

12.      Urban Land and Housing. One of the fimdamental issues contributing to the current
urban crisis in Afghanistan i s the poor performance o f land markets. Impediments to a well
functioning land market discourage quick development and transactions of land (efficiency),

'In Kabul alone IDPs and returnees number more than 1,200,000 (UNHCR, M a y 2004)


                                                   2

deny reasonable access to all income groups (equity), militate against sustainable use
(environmental quality), and compromise the proper interaction of rules governing land markets
with other laws and regulations governing land, such as planning and taxation (compatibility).
The functioning o f land markets and the value of property rights depend on formal mechanisms
for defining and enforcing those rights, including the court system, police, the legal profession,
land surveys, record keeping systems, and titling agencies, as well as social norms and religious
customs.

13.      The prolonged war has brought several impediments to the smooth functioning o f both
formal and informal land markets. The fact that the land administration system was ina state o f
abeyance for more than 20 years means that most transactions went unrecorded inthis period, and
even when they were recorded, there was no clear title consanguinity. In addition, many
landowners left their land unattended only to find on return that intheir absence it had been sold
many times over, and i s now occupied by someone else. Insome cases, land that was left under
the custody o f relatives or the Government is no longer available to the original owner because
another family has builta house on it. The safe haven that Kabul provided duringthe conflict also
meant that many IDPs built improvised houses on public or State land outside the limits o f the
Master Plan. These houses have grown into informal settlements that reportedly constitute over
half of the housing stock. The dispersion to peripheral mountainous areas, where land was more
readily available and affordable, was also a direct outcome of the rigid land use patterns,
inflexible development regulations and dysfunctional land and housingmarkets. The designation
o f these settlements as unauthorized developments incontravention o f the land-use dictates of the
master plan has contributed to the limited service coverage in these neighborhoods, despite the
fact that manyresidents actually pay local charges and fees.

14.      Urban Management. Towns and cities continue to function within the limitedmandate
accorded to district municipalities under the 1964 Constitution. Centralized administrative and
fiscal mechanisms which hadbeen standardized before the war have continued inuse throughout
the country, albeit without an on-going relationship with Kabul. The introduction o f reforms
devolving aspects of service provision to the local level must be made within the context o f the
existing culture within the bureaucracy, which has long favored the support for traditional central
systems.    Despite this, municipalities lack the resources and slulls to manage the urban
environment at the level required to achieve large-scale urban reconstruction and to position
towns and cities as renewed engines o f economic activity.

C.       Government Response and Strategy

 15.     Afghanistan's urbanvision i s for well hnctioningcities with inclusive, efficient, and self-
sustainingmanagement systems, operated by municipalities inclose collaborationwith residents.
Municipalities will be the principal actors for reconstructiono f the urban environment. To the
extent possible, urban services will be expanded into new and informal areas by integrating,
formal service delivery with community interventions, ensuring that all citizens can engage
effectively in city governance. Investments in private facilities, such as houses, will be the
responsibility of families and communities, while public infrastructure (urban roads, sanitation,
public parks, etc.) will be the responsibility o f municipalities and carried out through local
contractors or labor basedcontracts. Flexible urbanplanningto facilitate appropriate development
o f housing and municipal services is a priority need. Ultimately urban reconstruction and
development activities will need to take place inthe context o f strengthened capacity and greater
financial autonomy at the municipal level.




                                                 3

16.      The delivery o furban water supplypresents particular challenges and opportunities. The
nodal agency, the Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage (CAWSS), lacks resources
to move back into its role as a central implementer o f investments. Experience from other
countries suggests that a more effective institutional model will be for decentralized service
delivery with an increased role for the private sector (building initially from the existingbase of
small-scale contractors, NGOs and UNagencies). Municipalities are likely to play a key role in
ensuring service delivery at the city level. The central government will then move into a more
facilitating role, developing appropriate policy and regulatory instruments and overseeing the
delivery of sustainable water supply and sanitation within an agreed framework o f technical,
social and environmental standards.

17.      IRA, through the Ministryof Urban Development and Housing (MUDH),has proposed
an ambitious Urban Management Program2 (under Pillar I1 o f the National Development
Framework: Physical Reconstruction and Natural Resources) for the period ending March 20,
2004. Theproposed Government programincludes the following expected results:

             a. Planning and Management: Strengthenedcapacity o f MLTDH; identification and
                  removal o f barriers to reconstruction (including resolution o f property disputes);
                  strategic urban plans for Kabul and other towns; and detailed local plans for
                  selectedareas.

             b. Housing: Housing interventions include serviced land for self-help housing
                  project(s), scaled up grants program for reconstruction and upgrading,
                  introduction o f a land management policy framework that increases supply of
                  land, promotes transparency inland allocation, and moves towards bringingState
                  and privatemarket prices into line.

             c. Infastructure:     Key infrastructure needs include increase of provision of
                  residential water supply accompanied with demand management; introductiono f
                  modem sewage treatment inKabul; provision of solid waste disposal facilities in
                  Kabul and 5 other districts; increased provision of domestic power supply; road
                  rehabilitation in Kabul and introduction of traffic management; and zoning o f
                  commercial areas.

             d. Government Buildings: Reconstruction of government buildings, especially in
                  the provinces, and ina way that complements the civil service reformprogram.

 18.      The proposed project contributes primarily to NDF sub-program 1: Planning and
Management and sub-program 3:Infrastructure. The project components directly support several
budget line items, as prioritized by the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for fiscal year 1383
(Table 1).

 19.      More recently, "Securing Afghanistan's Future' was presented at the BerlinConference.
The document specifically addresses urban development, focusing on urban investment priorities
and reforms3. A perusal o f the relevant extracts (below) show considerable overlap between the
suggestedprograms and the KURP.




 MUDH,Draft National Development Program 2.4, March2004
 Securing Afghanistan's Future.March 172004. p56.


                                                  4

          a. Investment priorities:     Urban development programs will cover urban
             infrastructure, urban land and housing, and urban planning and management.
             Urban infrastructure programs include upgrading of under-serviced planned and
             unplanned areas; rehabilitation and extension of WSS services; rehabilitation and
             extension of urban roads and drains; security of tenure will"be improved through
             land titling, thereby eliminating the prospect of eviction due to illegal occupancy.
             In order to ensure smooth implementation of these programs, municipal
             management and urbanplanning will be strengthened.

          b. Implementation and reforms: Municipalities are the natural implementers of
             urban development programs, but their implementation capacity i s variable. The
             municipality of Kabul (KM)i s independent of the Ministry of Interior (MOI) but
             has a weak implementation capacity. To assist KM in the short run, a central
             Program Management Unit will need to be formed within MUDH. Initially,
             MUDHwill be responsible for implementingselectedhousingprograms, but in
             the longterm its role should be limitedmostly to coordinationandpolicy setting.

Table 1:Relevance of Proposed Project Components to National Budget

Afghanistan Budget Priorities                                XJRP Relevance
                                               Required
                                               Funding
                                               (USD          LelevantKURPComponents
                                               million)
                                                1382183

AFG/03233 Strategies for immediate              1.25         Part F:Major roads and drainage
            reconstruction ofKabul and                       reconstruction
            provincial cities
AFG/03234 Preparation oftownplans for           1.6          Part E: Revised structure plan for Kabul
            Kabul, provinces and sub-                        and other municipalities
            provinces
AFG/03240 Technical Assistance to MUDH 3.O                   Part C: Engineeringand Management
            and Kabul                                        Support, PartD: Overall Capacity
                                                             Buildingfor KabulMunicipality
2.4.2 Urban Housing
AFG/03215 Informalsettlements upgrading         12           Part A: Urban Upgrading; Part B
            program                                          Regularizationof landtenure
AFG/03535 Maps ofprovincial cities and          0.13         Byproduct ofseveralcomponents
            towns




                                               5

                       11.              WORLD BANKRESPONSE

A.      The Transitional SupportStrategy

20.     The reconstruction strategy developed by IRA forms the framework within which the
Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) has been prepared. Developed in consultation with
the Government and other stakeholders, the TSS puts forward priorities for Bank financial and
non-financial assistance based on the areas of comparative advantage of the Bank. The Bank i s
focusing on four strategic areas; i)improving livelihoods; ii)fiscal strategy, institutions and
management; iii)governance and public administration reform; and iv) enabling private sector
development. The TSS identifies urban infrastructure as a priority to "introduce contemporary
techniques o f urban planning, initiate programs for community-based upgrading of informal
urban neighborhoods, urban land use planning and initiate modernization of the urban land
management sy~tem"~.

21.     Inkeepingwiththe TSS, the Bank's involvement inthe UrbanManagement programis
selective. It focuses primarily on a program o f analytical services, institutional capacity building
and pilot initiatives to support municipalities inintegrating underserved residential areas, before
mainstreaming. These include:

             a. Analytical services target key policy reformsrelated to land management and
                  housing. Policy reforms should aimat ensuringmore efficient land markets to
                  serve the needs of bothfirms and households, andprovide a greater choice of
                  affordable housingproducts.

             b. Institutional Capacity Building. Buildingthe technical slulls andknowledgein
                  Kabul Municipality hasbegununder the IDA-financed MunicipalPublic Works
                  Program.

             c. Pilot initiatives. The Bank`s early initiatives focus primarily on developing
                  approachesfor integratingunderserved areas into the mainstream urban setting,
                  with consequentimprovementinurbanlivelihoods. Such an approach focuses
                  not only on service improvements to currently disadvantagedneighborhoods, but
                  develop partnershipsbetween local governments indevelopingappropriate
                  institutional and financing mechanisms for regularizing informal neighborhoods.
                  Itwill also focus onintroductionofappropriate landuse, housingand service
                  delivery standardsthat are affordable to bothcommunities and local
                  governments, to ensure that service delivery to the poor i s sustainable. These
                  initiatives will operationalize the Bank's UrbanAgenda inAfghanistanby
                  improving services inunderservedneighborhoods, pilot landtenure approaches
                  inselectedneighborhoods, andalsobuildcapacity ofbothKMandthe MUDHin
                  the area o f upgradingand service delivery and to various agencies inlandtenure.

B.      Rationalefor World BankInvolvement inthe Urban Sector

22.     Other than the Bank and UN-HABITAT, donor engagement in the urban sector i s small
but is slowly increasing. The European Union, GTZ, UNHCR, Japan, (through the OGATA),
MEDAIRand CARE all provide small investments, focusing mainly on housing reconstruction.
The EU i s also starting to focus on upgrading, while USAID i s supporting water supply, roads
and land management and information systems.            Italian Aid and CIDA have also provided


 World Bank, Afghanistan: Transitional Support Strategy, March2003, page 23.

                                                    6

technical assistance to MUDH- mainly inthe form of ex-patriate slulls. The Bank, through the
Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project, has focused on some urban service delivery
through a Municipal Public Works Program and emergency repairs to water supply schemes in
provincial towns. However, over all, urban reconstruction remains largely uncoordinated,
focusing on ad-hoc interventions. Policy dialogue and systematic technical assistance i s almost
entirely absent.

23.     The Bank i s uniquely positioned to respond to opportunities and challenges by: (a)
applying a systematic and longterm approach to urbandevelopment; (b)usingthe leverage of its
lendingvolume and advisory capability to induce and accelerateinstitutional and policy reforms
and demonstrate sustainable approaches to address shelter and urban development issues; and (c)
malung use o f its extensive international experience and converting the lessons learnt into best
practices.

C.      LessonsLearned

24.      Capacity of local governments. Inthe past, many countries have circumvented any role
for local authorities by having central agencies implement urban upgrading without their
involvement. The lesson learned i s that, due to lack of, or weak institutional and financial
capacity, and lack of involvement and sense of ownership, local governments have not responded
effectively to the O&M demands resulting from these efforts. The project has addressed this
lesson by setting up mechanisms to integrate the developed plans and infrastructure projects into
the daily functioning o f Kabul Municipality. Kabul Municipality district officers, engineers and
planners are also key actors inthe community upgrading process.

25.      Per$ormance standards and appropriate technologies. Bank review of service provision
for the urban poor inother countries suggests that flexible design standards contribute to reduced
costs in provision andor improvement of infrastructure and, by extension, facilitate access to
housing and services. Moreover, international experience has demonstrated that upgrading is
particularly effective and affordable (low-cost) because under-served settlements are usually of
highdensity. Once security of tenure and access to infrastructure are made available, density in
many upgraded areas has continued to increase as owners expand their houses vertically, often
providing rental units for supplemental income generation. This lesson has been translated into
the project design, specifically into the menu o f alternatives which will be provided to
participatingcommunities, and inthe applicationo f special standardsto settlements improved.

26.      Community participation and Community Fora intermediation.              Bank experience
indicates that the viability o f infrastructure improvements and sustainability o f results can be
better ensured by responding to the effective demand of beneficiaries through a participatory
process. A higher likelihood o f cost recovery has been achieved in those projects that involved
the community inthe decision making process. Projects in other counties (e.g., Guatemala and
Brazil) have also shown that NGOs and community foras can effectively intermediate between
the community and local authorities, help community members prioritize their needs and select
alternatives, and promote cost recovery. Consequently, the project applies a community-based
approach.

                     111.              THE PROPOSED PROJECT

A.       Project Objective

27.      The objective o fthe Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project i s to provide improved delivery
o fbasic urban services invulnerable communities inKabul Municipality through the upgrading


                                                  7

o furbaninfrastructureand enhancing the managerial capacity o fMUDHandKabulMunicipality.
This will be achieved by supporting the integrationof selectedneighborhoods into the urban
fabric o f the capital city throughthe reconstruction andrehabilitation of urban infrastructure and
strengthening the institutional capacity o f the Ministryof Urban Development and Housing
(MUDH)andthe KabulMunicipality (KM).

B.       ProjectDescription

28.      Inpursuitoftheaboveprojectobjective, theproposedCreditwillfinancethemosturgent
reconstruction in the area under the jurisdiction of Kabul Municipality and limited technical
assistancerequirements inMUDHand will set the stage for additional future assistance from the
Bank Group and other donors in support of IRA'Snational development priorities in the urban
sector. The need for urban infrastructure i s large and the World Bank will only be able to fund a
part of the requirements. The project will lay the groundwork for a follow-up project aimed at
city-wide infrastructure reconstruction and service delivery in the Greater Kabul area and other
major urban centers.

29.      The project will also seek co-financing for additional urgent reconstruction in the area
under the jurisdiction of Kabul Municipality and for technical assistance for MUDH and KM.
The project is structured insix parts.

Part A: Area Upgrading in Kabul (US$25.11 million equivalent                     -   IDA financed      +
CommunityContribution)

30.      Area upgrading' o f poor, infrastructure deficient, planned and unplanned neighborhoods
will be carried out in selected areas, following a participatory process involving the respective
community groups. The project component i s structured intwo phases to enable an early start          .In
the context o f the project a community may be a "gozar" (sub-district), a number of gozars
combined or, more likely, parts of a gozar.

31.      The selection of communities is currently being finalized. Vulnerability and deficiency
in service delivery will be the key criteria determining site selection6. Vulnerability will be
measured by income, the ratio of income earners vs. dependents and years living in Kabul.
Deficiencies in services will be measured through access to water (piped supply, in-house well,
public well, tanker), and sanitation (none in-house, latrine to nightsoil, improvedlatrine).

32.      A set of principles on which the upgradingprogram is to be designed are to be adopted.
These include:

         Service levels and Standards: to be functional, designed to cost limitsbut also to consider
         life cycle costs and longer term infrastructure and utilitydevelopment plans;
         Choice and Costs: Communities to be given choice of service level and cost implications
         o f choice to be explained bothfor capital and recurrent costs;
         Balanced Programfor Impact: Balanced programs which cover most elements on


  Area upgrading is defined as the improvement of basic tertiary infrastructure and services, inthis case,
water supply, sanitation, access, drainage, solid waste management and street lighting that respond to
community needs and demands and which are planned and designed inconjunction with communities and
which are constructed in comprehensive area-based packages through local contractors and community
groups, dependent on the type of work.         Upgrading also includes the appropriate replanning and
restructuringofthe physical environment
  The primary source of data will be a household survey carried out as part of the Settlement Selection
exercise usedto identifysettlements suitable for inclusion inthe project.

                                                     8

         "menu" to beimplementedto ensureimpacdvisibility to encouragefurther development
         through community/individualresources;
         Efficiency of Infrastructure Provision: Although community participation and choice i s a
         fundamental principle, the efficiency of infrastructure provision also has to be
         considered. Thus it i s important for proposals to fit with longer term plans of
         infrastructure/utility providers, particularly with regard to "network" infrastructure such
         as water supply. Infrastructure will be provided in area-based, rather than component-
         based packages to avoid future damage and disruption in the settlements. Local
         contractors will be used for "network" infrastructure and community contracting for
         "stand alone" facilities
         Supervision of Works and Transparency: Those involved in supervision and certification
         of works (i.e. consultantdNGOs) should involve community representatives to better
         ensure transparency andcommunity satisfaction;
         Community Upgrading Plans: All details agreed (e.g. provision, costs, contributions,
         operation and maintenance arrangements) to be included inCommunity Upgrading Plans
         to be prepared by communities and consultantsNGOs and agreed by all relevant
         stakeholders;
         CostRecovery and Community Contributions: Some level of contribution to capital costs
         will be madeby communities to foster a sense of ownership and for longer term financial
         discipline reasons.
         Trunk Infrastructure: This should be available at present or in the foreseeable future to
         ensure tertiary or local infrastructure provision i s able to operate effectively.
         Social Facilities: The project may provide extensions and rehabilitation to primary
         schools, hndergartens, community halls, primary health care facilities and similar
         facilities ifthese are seen to be a needand are apriority of a community.
         Minimal Resettlement: Physical proposals should apply planning and engineering
         standards flexibly to ensure sensitive, least cost proposals that minimise the need for
         clearance andresettlement.

         Services to beprovided include:

          Water Supply: Since the improvement o f the water supply systems in Kabul City i s
         underway with assistance from the German Govemment7, the project will focus mainly
         on providing safe hnlung water to communities inthe selectedproject neighborhoods in
         the shortest possible time. Proposals will follow longer term plans which will enable
         future individual house connections but generally serve only community standpostsinthe
         interim. Such standposts will be fitted with water meters, operated by designated
         community groups who will apply charges to those talung water and will be responsible
         for payingthe Water Authority for water consumed.
         Sanitation: A study to examine development options for the sanitation sector inKabul i s
         currently in its early stages, funded through the World Bank-financed Emergency
         Infrastructure Reconstruction Project8. However, inthe absence of a reliable and ample
         water supply, and secondary and primary sewerage and sewage treatment, sanitation will
         comprise improvedon-plot latrine arrangements.
         Solid Waste Management :The project will provide fixed brick or concrete built, or
         similar, roadside containers. It may also facilitate the implementation o f Community
         Based solid waste collection systems.


 K f W financed Feasibility Study for Kabul Water - Draft Concept Report, July 2003 by Consultants l2M
Beller.
 HP GauffIngenieure-KabulSanitationImprovementProject, fmancedbythe IDA.


                                                   9

    0   Access Roads: Access roads will be developed to functional standards to improve all
        weather access, traffic flow and develop or maintain rights o f way and link to the road
        hierarchy for the area. Surface treatment and drainagewill take account of topography.
    0   Hill-side steps: In steep areas, the project will design and construct appropriate hill-side
        steps and provide surface water drains adjacentto these.
    0   Drainage: Stormwater drainage will be provided in communities in accordance with
        catchments and overall drainage plans for the area.
    0   Street Lighting: Where there i s an existing operational power supply in the project
        neighborhoods, the project will provide street lighting. In the absence o f an existing
        operational power supply, alternative systems will be examined, e.g., a community
        maintainedgenerator with simple distribution system for street lights.

34.     Services and standards will be prioritised through the formulation of Community
Upgrading Plans (CUP) by Community Based Organisation (CBO) such as a Community
Development Council (CDC) or Community Action Group (CAG) with technical input from local
planning, design and contracts management consultants Following preliminary engineering and
costing the CUP will be taken back to the community for further discussion, modification and
agreement. On completion o f the consultations, the initial community proposals will be updated
by the consultants anda final CUP i s produced.

35.     Local planning, design and contracts management (PD&C) consultants in association
with CBO's will be engaged to carry out the community facilitation, planning and design and
subsequent construction supervision. Advice and assistance on procurement activities will be
provided by the Program Management Unit (PMU) formed in the MUDH supported by the
Technical Support Unit (TSU) consistingo f a consultant firm.

36.     The 4 year project i s divided into two phases with Phase 1 covering about 40% of the
project (based on settlement area) and Phase 2 covering about 60%. Current proposals are to
upgrade tertiary infrastructure in a comprehensive manner in settlements housing approximately
250,000 people covering about 1000 hectares. O f this, US$24.19 m will be IDA financed and
US$0.92m will from community contributions.

37.     For planning, design, procurement and construction reasons the "size" of eachphase will
benomorethan as follows:

    0   Phase 1-400 ha (approx. 100,000 people) inabout 20 Gozars in 2-4 Districts
    0   Phase 2 -600 ha (approx. 150,000 people) inabout 25 Gozars in2-4 Districts.

38.     Preliminary planning and engineering suggest average costs of about US$17,500 per ha
or US$70 per capita at an average density o f 250 persons per hectare. This gives a total cost for
the Part A component o f US$17.5 million. This figure increases to approximately US$24.19
milliononce an allowance for critical connections to trunk infrastructure and extensions to critical
social infrastructure facilities are included.

39.     Main infrastructure to be constructed under KURP (i.e. water supply distribution
networks, roads and drains) will be taken over by the responsible authorities for subsequent
operation and maintenance (e.g. CAWSS, KM).Operation and maintenance agreements will also
be set out in the Community Upgrading Plans, where community 0 & M will be vital to
sustainability.




                                                 10

PartB: LandTenureRegularization(US$0.64 million equivalent IDA and co financed).
                                                                         -

40.     This component aims to develop an appropriate methodology and capacity to regularize
urban land tenure in Kabul through pilots conducted in four communities representative of the
spectrum o f land tenure complexity in settlements identified for upgrading. Using the recently
completed maps of Kabul based on satellite imagery, the methodology will include systematic,
site-wide approachesto community mobilization, adjudication, surveyingand registration. It will
bepilotedon approximately 5,000 plots over the first two years o fKURP. Internationaland local
experts will be involved inthe design, initiation, monitoring and evaluation of the pilots and will
build capacity within the local implementing Agencies, particularly the Afghan Geodesy and
Cartography Head Office (AGCHO), the recently established special property court, and the
Kabul Makhzan (Registry) through development of manuals, the acquisition of surveying and
plotting equipment, the conduct of training in both the technical and project management
processesas well as hands-on engagement o f staff inthe implementationofthe pilots.

41.     The outcome of the component will be viable processesand instruments for each aspect
of tenure regularization including suggested principles for adjudication which may be later
embodied into policy or law. Where the existing legal framework i s adequate for fully resolving
the disputes or rectifying the irregularities discovered during the pilots, the outcome will include
the actual regularization o f the tenure so long as the affected parties adopt the available course of
resolution and are able to complete it within the span o f the project. This initiative complements
the ongoing work supported by USAID to computerize and improve records management inthe
Kabul Makhzan, and the roll-out o f systematic titling approaches after development of an
appropriate methodology.

42.     Thispart will be financedjointly byIDA for goods (US$0.26m) and a co-financier (US$
0.37m) for consulting services.

Part C: Engineering and Management Support (US$4.32 million equivalent -IDA and co-
financed)

43.      This component will provide technical assistanceto form TSUto assistthe MUDHPMU.
It will also provide for a number of PD&C consultants to work at the community level. The role
of the PD&C teams will be to mobilize communities, agree on services to beprovided, design the
service elements and supervise their construction.             They will also monitor technical,
environmental and safeguards compliance.

44.      This component will be financed by IDA for all goods (US$0.45m) and monitoring and
evaluation (US$ 0.lm) and by a co-financier for consultants services (US$3.77m)

Part D: Overall CapacityBuildingfor KabulMunicipality (US$0.30 million equivalent-co
financed)

45.      This component will support Kabul Municipality in improving its finance function,
including revenue generation, financial management, asset management, budgetingand planning.
The targeted departments include:          Investment Planning, Finance (and all related sub-
departments), Income, Properties, and the Control Office. An initial assessment of the KM
finance function will be carried out, building on existing analyses of Kabul Municipality, with
recommendations on improvement. This component will include design and implementation o f
simple computerized systemsto improveefficiency infinancial management.


                                                  11

Part E: Structure Plans and Preparation of Future Urban Project (US$1.64 million
equivalent co financed)
            -

46.      This component will assist the MUDHand at least five municipalities' with preparation
of physical development plans and investment programs, building capacity in planning in the
MUDH and the municipalities, and the institutionalization of a planning process in the
municipalities. The structure plans will be produced in a participatory manner, talung into
account the development needs at the communityheighborhood, district and municipal levels.
The structure plans will provide the basis for feasibility studies of future urban investment
covering city-wide services. The feasibility studies will explore options for serviced lands,
includingcosting of alternative standards, review availability of developable land with access to
infrastructure in appropriate locations, and examine the feasibility o f scaling up, given
infrastructure, land and financing constraints. Co-financing will be sought for this component.

Part F:Main Roads, Drainagesand Traffic ManagementinKabul (US$20.0 million
equivalent, co-financed)

47.      Given that there are many priorities for roads and drains in Kabul Municipality, this
component takes a programmatic approach. It will commence with the selection andjustification
of investments from the various lists that have been put forward and will take account of the on-
going andproposed schemes (e.g. USAID supported roadproposals as well as the on-going Rapid
RoadRepair Project). The component consists of 6 "generic" sub-components as follows:

         a) New Construction
         b) Reconstruction
         c) Repair and Overlay                                                       "`i
         d) Primary Drainage Channels Provision andRehabilitation
         e) SecondaryDrain Constructionand Repair
         f)Critical Traffic Management Improvements

48.      Works under these sub-components will be designed following a justification and
prioritization exercise by Consultants worlung from a long list o f proposals put forward by the
KMandthe MUDH.


Component                                                    Local      Foreign          Total
A. Area UpgradinginKabul                                      10.03       15.08
B. LandTenure Regularization                                   0.13        0.51
C. Engineeringand Management Support                           0.86        3.46            4.32
D.Overall Capacity Buildingfor KabulMunicipality               0.06        0.24            0.30  0.6
E. Structure Planning/ FutureProjectPreparation                0.32        1.32            1.63
F.MainRoads, Drains andTraffic Management                      8.00       12.00           20.00  38.1

TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                        1 19.4         32.56          52.00  100.0
All costs includecontingencies




 Suggestedmunicipalities include Kabul, Herat, Mazar-I-Sherif, Jalalabad, and Kandahar.

                                                 12

Componentby Source ofFunds                                 IDA        Cm"nities     ARTF/       Total
                                                                                    Other
A. Area UpgradinginKabul                                    24.19        0.92                    25.11
B. LandTenure Regularization                                 0.26                      0.37        0.64
C. Engineeringand Management Support                         0.55                      3.77        4.32
D.OverallCapacity Buildingfor KabulMunicipality                                        0.30        0.30
E. Structure Planning` FutureProject Preparation                                       1.63       1.63
F.MainRoads, DrainsandTraffic Management                                              20.00      20.00
TOTALPROJECT COSTS                                           25.0        0.92         26.07      52.00



   IV.               INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECT
                                        IMPLEMENTATION

A.      ImplementationArrangements

49.     Overall Management. Overall managementofthe totalproject will be the responsibility
of Ministryo f Urban Development and Housing (MUDH). MUDHwill form a Program Steering
Committee (PSC) to set operational policy guidelines, monitor progress and address problems.
The Ministry will also set up a ProgramManagement Unit (PMU) consisting o f MUDHstaff to
manage all components of the project. It i s envisagedthat the PMUwill, bythe endo f the project,
be institutionalized within MUDH to form an "Urban Upgrading Department". A Technical
Support Unit (TSU) consisting o f a Consultant Firm, will provide technical and managerial
support. The slulls present inthe PMU and the TSU will include but not be restrictedto Project
Management, Procurement, Financial Management and Community Development. The MUDH
will also appoint separate Consultants as required to support the implementation o f the different
components of the project.

50.     Part A: Area Upgrading inKabul. The Area Upgradingcomponent o f the project will
be managed by the MUDH through the Program Management Unit with the assistance of the
TSU. The Kabul Municipality will support the implementation of the component through a
Project Support Team (PST) consisting o f Kabul Municipality staff who will, in their line
function duties, contribute to the project. Community Based Organizations (CBO) in each
selected gozar will prioritize needed services, decide on a service standard package with the
assistance o f Planning, Design and Contracts Management (PD&C) Consultants.

51.     Part B: Kabul Land Tenure Regularization. The MUDHPMU, with assistance fiom
the TSU and the Land Tenure Consultants will convene a LandTenure Technical Committee of
representativeso f all stakeholder agencies as well as others with relatedexpertise. Participationin
this committee will includebutnotberestrictedto the Judicial ReformCommission, Afghanistan
Geodesy and Cartographic Head Office, Supreme Court and District Court (Makhzan), Ministry
o f Finance and the Kabul Municipality. The Land Tenure Technical Committee will be
responsible for coordinating the inputs from the respective agencies and for direction of the
consultants engagedon the component. This component will be co-financed.

52.     Part C: Engineering and Management Support. This component includes the
technical assistance and consulting services requiredto carry out detailed design, implement and
manage the project. It will be managed by the PMU, aided by the TSU. The PMU will be
responsible for oversight o f the whole project, although the detailed design and management o f



                                                 13

the co-financed components will also involve the co-financiers. It also includes technical
assistancefor financial audits and monitoring and evaluation. This component will be co financed

53.     Part D: Overall Capacity Building for Kabul Municipality. This component will be
implementedby KM.The MUDHwill appoint a Financial Management Consultant to assist the
KMto carry out thiscomponent oftheproject. This component willbeco-financed.

54.     Part E: StructurePlan and Preparationof a Future UrbanInvestmentProject. This
component will be managed by the MUDH, and the participating municipalities. The MUDH
will contract Planning Consulting F i d s to assist it in the development of the plans. The
Structure Plan Team consisting o f planners from the relevant Municipality and MUDH will,
together with the appointed Consultant, undertake the work of preparation of the Plan and the
subsequent feasibility study as part of the preparation o f the new project. m s component will be
co-financed.

55.     Part F: Main Roads and Drainage and Traffic Management. This component is to
be co-financed. The works of different categories will be undertaken by local and international
contractors selected using Bank procurement guidelines.          The technical consultants will be
funded by co-financing (possibly ARTF). The PMU, with TSU support, will liaise with the
appointed consultants to ensure overall scope and project targets, schedules and safeguards are
followed.

B.      Procurement

56.     The PMU of MUDH, assisted by the TSU, will have the overall responsibility for
procurement underthe project. The PMUwill appoint two procurement staff who will be assisted
by a procurement specialist in the TSU. The analysis shows that Afghanistan is a "high risk"
country from a public procurement point of view. The procurement procedures and procurement
plan for the project are developed keeping in view the public procurement environment in the
country. Thus, consideration i s given to risk minimization by further developing procurement
capacity within the PMU, which will work closely with the Government Procurement Unit(GPU)
of the Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services (ARDS) in the Ministry o f
Reconstruction andwith the procurement specialist of the TSU.

57.     Goods, works and consulting services financed under the Project shall be procured by
MUDHinaccordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Guidelines for Selection and
Employment o f Consultants, and using the Bank's model standard bidding documents. Each
contract for works estimated to be equivalent of US$500,000 or more shall be subject to prior
review. Irrespective o f value, the first contracts for works and goods for eachyear o f the project
will be subject to prior review. The first contract for goods up to US$lOO,OOO and all contracts
for goods above US$lOO,OOO shall be subject to prior review. Each contract for employment o f
consulting firms estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more, and US$50,000 or more in case o f
individual consultants, shall be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject
to post awardreview.For most consulting services, the preferred selection methodwill be Quality
andCost BasedSelection (QCBS) method.

C.      Disbursementand FinancialManagement

58.     Through the engagement o f the Financial Management Agent, the Government is now in
a position to ensure proper accounting for local payments. In addition it has also put in place
certain additional mechanisms such as (i)the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) under the
Treasury for disbursements and maintenance o f Afghanistan Management Information System


                                                  14

(AFMIS); (ii) Development Budget and External Relations (DBER) Unit for overall management
and reporting of all donor projects; and (iii) the CashManagement Unit, to undertake accounting
for all income and manage cash resources, under the overall charge of the Treasury Department
o fthe Ministryof Finance.

59.      The proposed project specific measures include the engagement o f a Financial
Management Specialist as part o f the TSU to assist the nationally staffed PMUwithin MUDHas
well as the Project Support Team (PST) of the Kabul Municipality. This i s crucial considering
the project involves a number o f agencies and consultants and it i s important that there i s a
designated person to ensure proper financial management arrangements for these agencies. The
other measure i s the mobilization o f a Consultant ChiefFinancial Officer (CCFO), retained under
the ARTF-financed Strengthening Financial Capacity project, to support budgeting and financial
management of the Ministry as a whole. The CCFO will work closely with the Government
appointed Chief Financial Officer/ Finance Manager in the Ministry to strengthen its capacity to
manage its reconstructioddevelopment program, including donor-financed projects.

60.      The PMU, assistedbythe TSU, will develop a Project ImplementationManual (PIM)
with a section on `Funds Flow andFinancial Management' whichcovers procedures as well as
internal controls o f various aspects of the overall flow o f funds, the fundtransfer mechanism,
disbursement to communities, and fundmanagement at the community level. This will also
include the responsibilities o f the PD&C Consultants working on Area Upgrading(Component
A) withrespectto compliance with transparencyrules for projectexpenditures. PartDofthe
project will assist Kabul Municipality with enhancing the financial management systems of the
Municipality. The output could form a basis for further reforms inother municipalities.

61.      The Project will follow standard Government financial management policies and
procedures, including using the Chart of Accounts developed by the Financial Management
Agent, to recordProject expenditures. Ultimately the SDUinTreasury Department of MOF will
be responsible for accounting of all expenditures and receipts in the Government's accounting
system.

62.      The MUDH's PMU assistedby the TSU, will be responsible for coordinating financial
management activities of implementingagencies with the SDU. Considering that there will be a
number of agencies and consulting organizations that it will be dealing with, it is important that
the PMU's own responsibilities, hnctions and necessary procedures are developed and
documented in a brief set of guidelines as part o f the Project Implementation Manual. The
guidelines are not expected to be an elaborate document, but sufficient to cover various aspects of
financial managementwhich the PMU, assistedby the TSU, will handle.

63.      The Project Implementation Manual will lay down clear instructions on how different
agencies will ensure the necessary fiduciary controls over expenditures incurred by them. The
guidelines will be authorized by the MOF, considering it has the overall responsibility o f
fiduciary compliance. Inaddition, the Counterpart Chief Financial Officer, CFO and the Financial
Management Specialist o f the TSU will assist the MUDHto record financial transactions o f the
project in an electronic format, using simple spreadsheet and/or database applications. Such
recordingo f data should enable the PMUandTSUinMUDHto retrieve financial information for
producingthe FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMR)informats to be agreedwiththe World Bank.

64.      Annual project accounts will be consolidated inthe Ministryo f Finance, inparticular, the
Treasury Department, supported by the Financial Management Agent, and consolidated Project
financial statementswill be prepared for all sources and uses of Project funds.




                                                  15

65.     Audit Arrangements. The accounts of the Project will be audited by the Auditor General,
with the support of the Audit Agent, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The
audit of the Project accounts will include an assessment of: (a) the adequacy of the accounting
and intemal control systems; (b) the ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions;
and (c) the eligbility o f incurred expenditures for Association financing. The annual Project
financial statements audited by the Auditor General, supported by the Audit Agent, will be
submitted within six months o f the close of fiscal year, i.e. by September 22 o f each year. All
agencies involvedinimplementationand holdingrecords of expenditures will need to retainthese
records as per the retentionrequirements ofthe Credit Agreement.

66.     Financing Percentage. Since collection of tax revenue has just begun and i s sporadic,
disbursement percentageshave been set at 100% with the understanding, however, that MOF will
submit withdrawal applications on anet-of-tax basis. The tax structure ofthe government will be
reviewed periodically by IDA and decision made whether standard disbursement percentages
needto be set and financing percentagesamended accordingly.

67.     Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be transaction-based
(replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special Commitments) with
fulldocumentation or against statementsofexpenditures as appropriate).

68.     Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs).           SOE thresholds are applicable for
procurement made. Disbursements will be made on the basis o f SOEs for all works less than
US$500,000; goods less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent, consultants' services for firms less than
US$lOO,OOO, for individual consultant less than US$50,000 equivalent, all training, audits and
incremental operating costs.

69.     Special Account. A special account will be opened and maintained in Da Afghanistan
Bank or a commercial bank in Afghanistan on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; and will
be operated in accordance with IDA'Soperational policies. The Authorized Allocation o f the
Special Account will be set not to exceed $2 million which i s the four month average estimated
expenditure to be paid from the account.

70.     Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account will be
submitted (a) monthly, regardless of amount, or (b) when the Special Account balance i s reduced
by 40% of the Authorized Allocation ($800,000), whichever comes first.              The minimum
application size for withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct payment, or for
applications for Special Commitments i s 20% o f the Authorized Allocation o f the Special
Account, Le., $400,000.

D.      Environmental and Social Safeguards

71.     The principles goveming social and environmental management will be applied through
an Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (the Framework) which i s attached, without
appendices, in Appendix 11. The Framework i s applicable to all activities financed by the
proposed Project, and includes (i)key policy principles for social and environmental
management, (ii)tools to guide the screening o f subprojects for significant social and
environmental impacts, and to assist in the mitigation of such impacts, (iii) procedures to ensure
that these principles and tools are appropriately applied, and (iv) guidelines for capacity building
and monitoring. The Framework will be operationalized through the proposed Project's
arrangements for implementation, capacity buildingand monitoring.




                                                 16

72.     The reconstruction and rehabilitation interventions envisaged under the proposed project
are not expected to generate significant negative environmental effects. Rather, they should
contributeto the improvementof environmental conditions. Limitedadverseimpacts could result,
however, from inadequatedesign and construction practices. To limit the extent of these risks, the
Framework provides a negative list of activities ineligible for support under the proposed project.
To mitigate the remaining potential impacts, the guidelines and codes of practice included inthe
Framework provide social and environmental mitigation measures to be incorporated in the
design, contractingand monitoring o f infrastructure developments.

73.     No activities will be supported that require involuntary landacquisitionor the acquisition
o f land requiring the resettlement or compensation o f more than 200 people. Consequently, no
Resettlement Action Plan will be required for the proposed project. The voluntary donation or
compensated contribution o f land for activities will be guided by the appendix "Guidelines for
Landand Asset Acquisition, Entitlementsand Compensation" includedinthe Framework.

74.      Giventhe nature o f the operation (being processedunder OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery
Assistance) and the proposed activities for IDA financing, an exemption has been obtained from
the requirement to make the Framework publicly available prior to appraisal. The Framework
will, however, be made publicly available inAfghanistan and at the World Bank Info Shop prior
to presentation of the proposedproject to the World BankBoard.

75.      The components of the project will benefit households in general by providing increased
level of services includingwater, sanitation and pedestrian and vehicular access. While women
and children are not specifically targeted, they will be the primary beneficiaries of the
interventions in water and sanitation in terms of health gains and reduced workload in water
collection. The realization of these benefits will be ensured through the provision of health
education as part of the water and sanitation interventions.

76.      The identification of areas for upgradingwill apply procedures and selection criteria that
will minimize the riskof ethnic bias.

77.      The types of public works planned under the project are not expected to generate labor
opportunities for women to any significant degree. Duringthe process o f consultations with local
communities, separate arrangements shall be made to ensure participation by and consultation
with women, as they can not be expected to be covered through the general community
consultations.

E.       MonitoringandEvaluation

78.      Monitoring arrangements include plans for intensive supervision by the Bank to ensure
that any implementation difficulties are dealt with promptly. At a minimum, a full supervision
mission i s needed quarterly, with specialists visiting Afghanistan more frequently if needed
during Project implementation. A quarterly progress report will be prepared and submitted to
IDA, which consolidates all components including progress towards meetingimplementationand
development objectives, as further detailed in the Project's procurement plan and detailed
monitoring indicators. Responsibility for this reporting rests with the MUDH. Appendix 12
providesadditional details onmonitoringindicators for the Project.

F.       ConditionofProjectDisbursement

79.      The approval by Government o fanagreedlist o f settlements to beupgraded inKabul
underPart A ofthe project will be a conditionof disbursement.


                                                 17

G.      Justification

80.     This project i s expected to be the start o f a longer term involvement of the World Bank
Group inselected urban infrastructure sub-sectors. This first operation will, apart from emergency
assistance, set the stage for increasing access to sustainable urban infrastructure services. In
addition to the creation o f suitable legal and regulatory frameworks, capacity building efforts
supported by the Project will help to create absorptive capacity for handling donor assistance,
community driven development as well as other forms o f private sector involvement across
infrastructure sectors.




                                                  18

                           V.                APPENDICES
                     Appendix 1: Overview ofUrbanServices inKabul
                            KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

Background

81.     Kabul City has grown rapidly since the fall o fthe Taliban in2001,increasing from an
estimated 1.7 million in2000 to about 2.7 millionin2003. Additionally, at least 300,000
Afghans enter the city every morning, bringingthe effective daytime populationto a little
over three million. Only 40% o fthe roughly 325 kilometer square areais planned. Most
residents thus live inunserviced or under-serviced unplannedareas. For administrative
purposes, the city is dividedinto 16districts, of which three districts are peri-urban and
sparsely populated. Everydistrict is further dividedinto zones (about 3-5 zonesper district)
andeachzone is further divided intogozars. Eachgozar consists ofabout 200 households
representedby a local wakeel.

82.     The City is governedbythe Municipality o f Kabul. The KMis reasonably
autonomous, responsible for its ownbudget and staffing. The Mayor o f Kabulhas the status
o f a Minister.The KMcontrols some, but not all, delivery o f services. It i s responsible for
the implementationo fthe city's masterplan;" constkctionof canals, ditches, flood
protectionmeasures; solidwaste management; supervision o fpublic parks; greening the city;
construction and paving o froads; control o f food prices; distribution o f landplots for
commercial andresidential purposes; recovery o fresidential sites; cultural services and
expansion o f foodmarkets. However, water supply inthe city i s controlledby Central
Authority for Water Supply and Sanitation (CAWSS) which falls under the Ministryo f Urban
Development andHousing. The Soviet styled public housing, the Macro-Rayans, are
controlledbythe MUDH; public urbantransport is controlledbythe Ministryo fTransport
while traffic managementfalls under the MOI. This institutional fragmentation makes co-
ordination of service delivery difficult.

Water Supply

83.     Introduction. Most o fthe urbanwater supplysystems inKabuland other towns have
beenseverely damagedeither directly duringthe period of conflict, or indirectly due to the
prolongedperiod o fneglect andlack o f maintenance. As a result the systems are operating at
very low levels of efficiency. Sourceyields are adversely affected by deterioration inthe
boreholes, lack o f appropriate pumps, and fluctuatingpower supplies. The distribution
networks have beenbroken and mendedhaphazardly usingany available pipe materials and
informal connections are widespread. Significant partso fthe systemshave beencut off from
the network andthere are alargenumberofalternative systemswhichhavebeenbuiltaround
newbore-wells.

84.      Consumersand Coverage.Today, the pipednetwork yields only 8000 m3per day,
although this is animprovement from the 5000m3lday low in 1994. The majority o fthe
populationobtaintheir water from the approximately 800 wells located around the city.
There i s heavy reliance on local or on-site water and sanitation solutions. Pipedwater
coverage is extremely low. CAWSS serves 31,500 connections inKabul, which i s an
estimated 20% o fKabul's population. Cost recovery is very low. InKabul in2001 CAWSS
billedless than US$150,000 (or less thanUS$5 per connection) o fwhich only about 18% was
collected. The low levels o f collection is due inpart to the confused situationwith regardto


loThe 1978 master plan was not implemented fully, reportedly due to insufficient funds, lack o f
management and planningcapacity. Unplanned shelter expansionoccurred, with other govemment
agencies also contnbutingthrough the construction of facilities without referenceto the master plan.


                                                19

tenure andthe inabilityo f government institutions to pay their bills. Poor collectioni s
exacerbatedbythe poor level ofmetering'          '.
Bulk Supply.There are three main sources ofwater for Kabul12: the Allaudin wellfield,
developed between 1930 and 1954, consists of springs below the Qargha Damandfour deep
wells at Alaudin; the Afshar Wellfield; andthe Logar wellfields.Mucho fthe population
relies on shallow wells andirrigation canals. The public water supply network does not
extend to the suburbs.At their height, the maximum productionrate o fpipednetwork was
86,000 m3/day(100Olh). This was still below the required needs, andthe city was also served
by approximately 100,000 shallowwells.

85.        Microruyuns. Water is supplied via 13 deep abstraction boreholes o f depth 100-120m
andinstalledwith electrical submersiblepumpsofcapacity 25-40 l/s. Fromthese, water is
distributedthroughout the complex via a hillsidereservoir, although recently it i sbeing
pumpeddirectly into the network.

86.        Issues. Keyissuesinthe water sector include: lack o fcurrent hydro-geological
studes or user demanddata; lack o f water management strategies; limited access to, and
affordability of, pipedsupplies; incremental augmentation of supply systemvia shallow tube
wells; unknown loss due to leaks andillegal connections; poor billingandcost-recovery
systems; clarification o fthe potentialrole o fthe private sector; integrationo fwater supply
schemes into spatial plans; andthe need for coordination between agenciesat the national and
local~evels.'~

87.        Future Plans. KfW (German Bank for Reconstruction), i s funding an urgent water
supply rehabilitationproject, intwo phases(total value of first phaseapprox. US$9.5 m,
implemented from mid-2002 to mid-2004). KfWis also funding a feasibility study for the
extension o fthe Kabul water supply system, carried out from January 2003 to January 2004.

Sewerage

88.        Introduction. Access to sewerage is limitedinKabul to the Microrayans. Fortyfive
percent ofthe population use septic tanks for wastewater disposal. However, since the water
table is htghinsettled areas, the water wells are underthe risk o fpollution.

89.        Status Quo: Excreta disposal systems inKabul are o f4 different types:

           a. The vast majority are on-site systems, including single and double pit latrines and
               variations on a traditional model o fvault toilet which opensto the street to


 ''In
~




      Kabul, both volumetric and flat rates are used, depending on whether the connection i s equipped
with a meter. Current volumetric rates are Afg. 1000 / m3 for households($0.03 / m3), and Afg.
4500/m3 for offices andNGOs ($0.13/m3). Few meters are likely to be operational at the current time.
For those connections without a meter, rates are Afg. 120/year ($3.43/year) for ?4inch connections,
Afg. 240 /year for %inch connections, andAfg. 480 /year for 1inch connections. Connectionfees are
Afg. 100,000 for ?4 inchconnections, Afg. 200 for %inch connections, and Afg. 400 for 1inch
connections. A labor charge o f Afg. 80 has to be paid inaddition to the connection fee. Consumers
haveto be settle their bills at localbranches o fthe Afghan Bank, which then transfers the money to
CAWSS own Bank account.
 ''Inthe 1980s Kabul City received water by gravitation through a cast-iron pipe from the Paghman
district, located some 15kmfrom Kabul. This network is not hnctioning at present.
 l3Four Ministriesare responsible for water: (i)Agriculture, (ii) Resources, Irrigation &
                                                                Water
Environment, (iii)Rural Reconstruction and Development and Public Works, while the central technical
agency, CAWSS is under the (iv) MUDH. As part o fthe Urban Program Secretariat, a Water Sector
Committee has been established at the national level for information exchange and coordination.


                                                    20

              facilitate the removal o fnightsoil. There are also about 17publictoilets all over
              Kabul out of which only 3 are inservice.

         b. Flushtoilets are more common inhigher classresidential andcommercial areas,
              where wastewater i s collected inunlinedpits andpermeateinto the ground.

         c.   Inlargerbuildingsincludingagencyandgovernment offices, septic tanks and
              permeation pitsare typically used. Several apartment complexes have septic
              tanks but these are not maintained as vacuum trucks are not available andsewage
              spills fromthe permeation pits.

         d. Sewerageis limitedto 4 apartmentcomplexes, Microrayan 1,2,3 and4 in
              Districts 16 and9, and serve aresident populationo f about 120,000. Sewageis
              conveyed (2 km)to a wastewater treatment plantof atotal capacity o f about
              15,000 m3/day. Due to O&M problems, wastewater ispartially treated (limitedto
              separationand sedimentation) before beingdischargedinthe Kabul river.

90.      Nightsoiland sludge collection is minimal as there are only 2 Municipalvacuum
trucks operating inKabul. Privatevacuum trucks have beendischarging waste inan
uncontrolled manner. Collected nightsoil is disposedo f outside the city boundary inDesert
Chemtalla inthe north andPuli Churkhi inthe east.

91.      Muchofthe southernpart ofthe cityhasbeendestroyed; this area, alongwithnew
under servedsettlementswhichcan already be seenonthe outshrts ofthe city, will require
rapid strategic interventions to ensurethat the sanitation situation does not deteriorate. Inthe
1970sthe municipalityprepared a masterplanfor sewerage interventions butno investments
were made14.

92.      ICRC (International Committee o fthe RedCross) hasbeen constructing more than
50,000 latrines andtoilets inthe city over the past 5 years, andhas also prepared detailed
assessmentsand mappingo f the sanitation facilities inKabul. Other NGOs such as German
Agro Action, ACTED, CARE, Mercy Corps, MEDAIR, have been involved inthe provision
o fvarious on-site sanitation facilities, hygiene promotionprograms, solid waste collection.

93.      A few major studies were carriedout inthe late 1970s, includingthe Kabul Sanitation
Report (1979) andthe Kabul Sewerage Master Plan commissioned by UNDP in 1972.
However, giventhe very low revenue base, the lack o ftechcal andmanagerial capacity, and
other sector constraints, particularlyunreliable electricity supply, it is evident that capital-
intensive solutions such as conventional sewerageand wastewater treatment (envisaged under
the Master Planpreparedinthe 1970's) will notbe feasible inthe short- and medium-term,
withthe possible exception ina few densely populated areas ofKabul.


l4In1972, the UNDPcommissioned a series of30 Year Master PlansandFirst StageFeasibility
Studies for the Greater Kabul Area. The studies covered Water Supply, Sewerage, Drainage and Solid
Wastes. Studies were also undertakenon Organization, Management, Financial and Legal aspects. The
2004 population was projected to be 2,000,000. On completion o fthe studies, the Central Authority for
Water Supply and Sewerage(CAWSS) was formed, and the World Bank (IDA) agreed to finance the
First and SecondWater Supply Projects andthe First Sewerage Project. The First Sewerage project
comprised collection sewers inthe New Urban Area and ShareNau, with treatment inwastewater
stabilization ponds. Engineering Design and Construction o fthe First Water Project was completed
between 1975 and 1986. Engineering Designo fthe Second Water Project and the First Sewerage
Project were partially completed between 1978 and 1979. No construction work was done on the
Second Water Project, or on the Sewerage Project. (See more details in a paper byFrank Moir, dated
September 2002, entitled "Water And Sanitation Planning For The City O fKabul: A Review OfThe
1974 UNDP-Sponsored Water And Sewerage Master Plans, AndThe Implementation OfThe First
Stage Projects)


                                                 21

94.       Therefore, a progressive approachto improving environmental sanitation conditions
is encouraged.The government's strategy for improving the sanitation situation inKabul
consists o f the following phases: (1) assessmento fthe existingsanitation situation, (2)
definition o fthe principles underpinningstrategic sanitation planning, (3) identification,
design andimplementationpriority rehabilitationneeds, (4) identification andmobilization o f
appropriate partners for operation andmaintenance(e.g. solid waste collection etc), and (5)
identification o f alternatives for medium-andlong-terminterventions, (6) implementation o f
medium-andlong-term interventions.

Solidwaste management

95.       Household Waste forms the largest component o f solid waste. The averageper-capita
waste generation rate is approximately 0.4 kgper day. The averageresident o f some districts
probably generates less waste (as low as 0.2 kgkapitdday) while inother districts residents
generatemore waste on average (up to 0.5 kdcapitdday). There is no information on
industrial waste. The 22 hospitals o f Kabulappear to burntheir waste on site and/or disposed
with the domestic waste stream. Waste collectioninKabul occurs intwo stages:

              Primary collection: Residentsand community organizations remove waste
                  manually from households, which are referredto as primary collectionpoints,
                  and dump them at loosely designatedcollectiodtransfer points, or so-called
                  secondarycollection points.
              Secondary collection: Waste collection vehicles from the Department o f
                   Sanitation (DOS) then remove solid waste fromthese secondarycollection
                  points and haul themto Gazak dumpingsite situated about 15 kmeast of
                  Kabul City. The site is also 30 kmfromthe DOS vehicle pool where the
                  trucks take off every moming and returnevery afternoon.

96.       The DOS collects 300 tonnes of solid waste from the streets o f Kabul every day. This
is well below the average rate o fwaste generation inKabul (about 1,280 tonnes per day).
Waste collectionby Kabul Municipalityi s adhoc. There is no specific routing planassigned
to each o fthe 40 vehicles and crew belongingto KM.Furthermore, the existing collection
vehicles are small insize (3-5 m3 capacity) anddnvers currently conduct only two tripsper
day. Inthe most accessible andvisible partsofKabul, waste i s collected onceper week. In
other parts o fthe city, where streets are narrow andgenerally unpaved, the frequency of
collection drops as low as once permonth.

 97.      Cost of Current SWMSystem. Since the establishment o fthe new dumpingsite at
 Gazak,the costs recordedhave increasedto almost US$20,500, principally due to increased
 fuel consumption. This sum does not reflect total S W M expenditures such as salaries,
 insurance, depreciation of collectionvehicles, etc. A drive acrossKabul City reveals
 significant scavenging andrecycling activities inthe streetsbut there are no recycling
 facilities inKabul.

 Buildingandconstruction waste (rubble anddebris)

 98.      The reconstruction efforts will involve the massive task o fmanaging huge volumes o f
 rubble, debris and sediments. Disposalo fenormous quantities o frubble and debris canpose
 severalproblems that will needto be addressedas part o fthe rubble and debris management
 effort, includingenvironmental impacts (actual or potential) o f current dumpingpractices and
 mitigationmeasures, possibilities and economic opportunities for recycling andreuse of
 rubbleanddebris, development o fappropriate guidelines for cost-effective and
 environmentally sound disposal o frubble and debris, managemento f debris from heritage and
 cultural sites for rebuildingand/or restoration, financial and organizational issuesregarding




                                                22

the provision o frubbleremoval services and identification andmanagemento fnew disposal
sites to be establishedto receive rubble and debris.


Roads and Drains

99.      Introduction The total lengtho fpaved streetslroads inKabulis 309 km,the total
lengthofunpavedroadslstreetsis about 350 km.However, an estimated60%ofKabulroads
are damaged-a result ofthe combination o fwar and lack o fmaintenance.

100.     The Construction Department, ofthe Kabul Municipalityis responsible for the
construction o fnew roadslstreetsor repair andmaintenanceo fthe existing roadslstreets.
However, it is has very little equipment andi s currently not inapositionto performits related
tasks.

101.     Future Plans. SinceMay 2002, the GermanMinistryfor Economic Cooperation and
Development (BMZ) is financing an ongoingRoadRepair Program inKabul City through
KfWwithinthe framework ofGermanFinancialCooperation (FC) totaling 5 million.The
program continues for 20 months untilthe endo f 2003. But this consistsmainly o fpatching.
About l O O k mo froad will be repaired inKabul underthe current programsupportedby
internationalagencies.Further more substantial roadreconstruction inKabulwill be
supported underthe KURP.

Storm-water drainape

102.     Introduction. Kabulhasrelatively lowprecipitationbut when raindoes fall there i s a
considerable accumulation o f water on the streets inthe city. Roadside drains are mostly
clogged and inmuch o fthe city needto be rebuilt. Drainage inthe under served settlements
on the hillsides aroundthe center needs to be looked at as a matter ofurgency. Currently
NGOs managepart o fthe drain cleaning programbut this needsto beprogressively moved
into the municipality as capacity i s built.Areas susceptible to erosion or flooding due to storm
water, or areas where sullagelwastewater are connectedto existing drains and causing
problems will be identified. Neighborhoodneeds for improved drainage (tertiary drains) will
also be assessed.

 103.    Future Plans. There i s a study inthe pipeline inwhich consultantswill review the
conditions o fthe existing drainagenetworks and assess the need for additional collectors.
Preliminary design o fthe additional drains are to be prepared. The consultant will review,
maps o f groundwater, drainagebasins, topography etc. An assessmentofthe non-institutional
causes (blockage with garbage andsand, collapse, poor construction etc.) o fpoor drain
maintenance willbe made.




                                               23

                               Appendix 2: UpgradingComponent
                               KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

Introduction

1.       Area upgrading" o fpoor, infrastructure deficient, planned andunplanned
neighborhoods will be carried out inselectedareas, followingaparticipatoryprocess
involvingthe respective community groups. The process for the selection of communities i s
underway. The project component i s structured intwo phases to enablean early start Inthe
context o fthe project a community may be a "gozar" (sub-district), a number o f gozars
combined or, possibly, parts o fa gozar.

Selectionof Settlements

2.       Eligbility Criteria: Vulnerability anddeficiency inservice delivery are the key
criteria determiningsite selection16.The measures for each include17:
    0    Vulnerability:
                   o # ofvulnerable people
                   o Density
                   o Conditionofhousing
         Deficienciesinservices:
                   o Water (piped supply, in-house well, public well, tanker)
                   o Sanitation (none in-house, latrineto night soil, improvedlatrine)
    Indicators for eacho fthesevariables will be decided uponand a scoring system
    developed on completion o f data collection.

3.       Processo f Selection ofareas for engagementinKU". Selection o f areas for
engagementinKURPwill occur infour stages:

    0    Stage One: Identificationo fEligibleNei&borhoods Usingseveral data sourcesall
         neighborhoods onpublic landinKabul will berated inaccordance with the eligibility
         criteria. A list o fneighborhoods eligible for upgradingwill become apparentthrough
         this process.

    0    Stage Two: Phasinp o f Works. Subsequently, the eligible neighborhoods will be
         phased", basedon the viability o fproviding network infrastructure to the area during
         the life cycle o fthe project.

    0    Stage Three: Identificationo fTarget Areas for Uunading. Subsequent to the
         selection o fproject eligible neighborhoods, target areas for upgradingwithin the
         neighborhoods will be identifiedbasedon ahousehold survey. This will bebasedon
         a further iteration o fvulnerability, service deficiencies and geographic clustering.


''Area  upgrading is defined as the improvement o f basic tertiary infrastructure and services, in this
case, water supply, sanitation, access, drainage, solid waste management and street lightingthat
respond to community needs and demands and which are planned and designed inconjunction with
communities and which are constructed incomprehensive area-based packagesthrough local
contractors and community groups, dependent on the type o f work. Upgrading also includes the
a propriate replanning and restructuring o fthe physical environment.
"Data sources include WFP, UNAMA, CSO. Another data source will be a household survey carried
out as part o fthe Settlement Selection exercise usedto identify settlements suitable for inclusion inthe
project.
  More may be added depending on results o fthe survey.
  Phase 1and 2 within project and remainder for future project.


                                                   24

UpgradingProjectPrinciples

4.      Itis commonto adopt a set ofprinciples to guidenot onlythe selection of
communities but the planning, design andimplementation o fupgradingprojects at a large
scale. The following is a sumfnary o fnineprinciplesto be applied inthe KURP.

    i)Appropriateservicelevelsandstandards:Thefundamentalprincipleisthatschemes
    shouldbe designedto affordable servicelevels/standardsthat provide services that canbe
    sustained. Infrastructure improvements should beplanned anddesignedto functional
    standarddservice levels and to strict cost targets (on aper hectare/ per householdandor
    per capita basis) for affordability and replicability/equity reasons. However life cycle
    costs needto be considered. It is usuallyunwise to compromise construction standards
    butplanning standardsandservice levelsmayberelaxedandthe concept of"incremental
    improvement" adopted. This is aprinciple to be adoptedinKURP.

    ii)ChoiceandCosts:Inchoosingservicelevelsistandardscommunitiesshouldbegiven
    choice and should know the cost implications o f choosing one service level against
    another. A matrix outlining service levels andcostsi s often useful indialogue with
    communities. An example developed from work done with assistanceo fthe MUDHteam
    is includedas Attachment 1.The ability/willingness o fbeneficiaries to pay consumption
    charges for remunerative services supplied(e.g water supply), as well as contribution to
    capital costs, should also be considered when discussing service levels and cost
    implications with communities.

    iii)BalancedProgramforImpact:Wlstframingtheprojectbasedoncommunity
    priorities for basic municipal services andaffordability, it is still important to ensure a
    "balanced" program o f improvements (say 4 o fthe 6 components on a "menu") for
    reasonso f impacthsibility andto avoid skewedinvestment (e.g. excessiveexpenditure
    on roads at the expense o fsanitation). Such aprinciple, which achieves markedvisible
    changeto the community, has been shown to encourage subsequentinvestment by
    community residents intheir housing stock, investment insmall scalebusiness inthe
    areas anda more positive attitude to payment o f local levies such as property tax,
    consumer charges as well as achieving protection, bythe community, o f assetsupgraded.

    iv) Efjciency of Infrastructure Provision: Whereascommunities maywish, andshouldbe
    encouragedto participate not only in decision-making andplanningof their communities,
    the efficiency o finfrastructure provisionshould also be considered. The design o fthe
    network infrastructure should be cognizant o fthe longer-terminfrastructure development
    plans ofthe various responsible authorities (e.g. KMfor roads anddrainage andCAWSS
    for water supply). Proposalsagreedwill not usually provide a "full" level o f service at the
    outsetbut will be major step towards achievement of such a service level. Experience has
    shown that "network" infrastructure is normally best provided over a larger areainone
    package usingexperienced workmanship and supervision. Single sectoral initiatives often
    result incontinual disruptionof communities and damage o f one service (e.g. road) while
    implementinga subsequentservice (e.g. water supply). Coordinationo fvarious sector
    improvements i snormally best handled by an experienced group (e.g. local contractor).
    However "stand-alone elements" ofupgradingproposals (e.g. fixed solid waste
    containers, pit latrine and/or septic tank construction) better lendthemselves to
    community contracting and such implementationmethods should be considered for such
    components.




                                                25

   v) Supervision of Worksand Transparency:Tobetter ensure a good quality of
   workmanship and materials by contractors and communities (where community
   contracting is included) thenConstruction Management`supervision consultants should
   be engaged. For consistency this is often best providedby the consultantsthat carry out
   the community facilitation, planningand design. Inaddition, for transparencyreasons,
   representatives ofrespective communities shouldbe includedinperiodic site meetings
   between PMU/PST/TSU, contractors and construction management consultants andin
   measuremento fworks done.

   vi) Community Upgrading Plans: Details andplans ofthe facilities to be upgraded,
   capital andoperation & maintenance(0& M) costs, 0 & Mmodalities, funding
   arrangements, implementation arrangements etc. should all be set out in"Community
   UpgradingPlans" to which eachcommunity (via its Community BasedOrganization(s))
   and responsible 0 & Magencies(e.g. Municipalityandutilityagencies) formally agree.

   vii) CostRecovery and Community Contributions: To foster greaterownership and
   responsibilityby the respective communities, communities should make some
   contribution to capital costs, however modest. This couldbe done invarious ways that
   should be considered duringthe planningphase. For example, with regard to utility
   provision (e.g water supply) capital costs for provisioncouldberecovered over time
   through a supplementto the tariff structure, where house connections are provided, which
   may be more affordable to householders.With standpipe provisioncosts charged for
   water could include a capital recovery element. Insome upgrading schemes carried out in
   other countries, Citieshhnicipalitieshave contributed a share of capital costs, rather than
   all costs funded through Central Government. InKabul it is expectedthat capital
    contributions from communities will bebetween 5-10% inline with other initiatives (e.g.
   UNHabitat).

   viii) TrunkInfrastructure: "Off-site'' primaryor trunk infrastructure mayberequiredto
    ensurethat secondary andtertiary infrastructure providedi s able to operate effectively.
    Critical "links", not beingprovidedinon-going or foreseeableprojects needto be
    identified duringthe selection andplanningstages. Also critical on-site social
    infrastructure extensionsandrehabilitationmaybe requiredifnot beingprovidedunder
    on-going programs. Allowances have beenmade inthe project cost estimates for such
    links.

    ix) Minimal Resettlement: Physical proposals should apply planningand engineering
    standardsflexibly to ensuresensitive, least cost proposals that avoid demolitiono f
    dwellings/commercial establishmentsand thus involve only minimal involuntary
    resettlement. Inthe case o fthe KURPthere will be no resettlement.

Services to be Provided

5.      A summary ofthe "menu" ofinfrastructure and servicestogether with service level,
design andconstruction standards that may be providedi s set out below. Attachments 1,2 and
3 set these out inmore detail together with costs.

    i) Water Supply: Sincethe improvement o fthe water supply systems inKabul City are
    underway with assistance from the GermanGovernment", the project will focus mainly
    onproviding safe drinkingwater to communities inthe selectedproject neighborhoods in
    the shortestpossible time.



l 9KfWfinancedfeasibilitystudyfor KabulWater Supply-FeasibilityReport, 2004byConsultants
RMBeller.


                                              26

       0    Tertiarydistribution systems (usually allpipework andfittings withinthe
            neighborhood but sometimes includingsecondary elements o f the system) willbe
            plannedanddesignedfollowingthe developmentplanfor water supply-see
            above). However, houseconnections andmeters will not be included although
            they couldbeprovidedonpayment ofthe necessaryconnection feeby
            householders.The distributionnetworks providedwill supply community
            standpostswith a service level o f 200 persons (average o f40 households) per
            standpost.
       0    Where access roads are to be laidinthe project areasthenwhere spacei s
            available, the water supply infrastructure should be laidinservice reserves,
            preferablyonboth sides o fthe road. Where individual householdconnections are
            not provided initially, then service ducts will beprovidedacross roads to permit
            individual connections inthe future without breakinginto the access road.


        0   Although a selection criterion is "availability o ftrunk infrastructure", limited
            critical "off-site" links to serve a settlement fromnearbysecondary infrastructure
            may be provided underthe project andanallowance for t h s hasbeenmade inthe
            project cost estimates.

            Community standpostswill only beprovidedwhere a community group agrees to
            take responsibility for operating and maintaining the standpost and for payingthe
            water bills renderedby CAWSS for water consumed. Each standpostwill be
            fitted with a water meter as part ofthe project. The details withregardto
            operation, maintenance, responsibility andpayment for water consumed will be
            set out inthe Community UpgradingPlan for the specific community.

   ii) Sanitation: A major sanitation study for KabulCity hasrecently commenced with
   assistance from IDAunder EIRP2'. This will look at, inter alia, the provision o f
   waterborne sewerage andsewage treatment and disposal as well as improved on-plot
   facilities.


        0   At this stage inthe absence of a reliable and ample water supply or secondary,
            primary sewerage and sewage treatment facilities examination of the appropriate
            excreta system needs to be made (i.e. twin-tanks system; simple pit, pour-flush,
            twin-pitpour flush, VIP pit,twin-pitVIP) before designingandconstruction. The
            project includes for the provision o f improved on-plot latrine arrangements and
            cost estimateshave allowed sums for this.


        0   The design and implementation of the sanitation sub-component will require
            careful handling as it involves entry onto "private property" for both survey and
            construction. Giventhe sensitivity o fthe sub-component construction will be best
            arranged following community contracting arrangements and such procurement
            andconstruction arrangementshavebeenbuiltinto the project.

        0   Where access roads are to be laid inthe project areas then appropriate amount o f
             space mustbe left on either side o f the access road to enable future tertiary (lane)
             level sewerage systems (either small bore or conventional or combined
             drainagehewerage systems) to be laid without breahng into the access road.
            Furthermore, design o f the access road must also cater, through the provision o f
             ducts, for future pipe crossings at appropriate intervals along the length o f the
             access road.



~




2oIDA financedfeasibility study for Kabul Sanitation.


                                                 27

iii) Solid WasteManagement: The Sanitation Study referred to above is also loolung
at solid waste management, city-wide. Thus, as with water supply and sanitation, the
proposals for solid waste collectiordcontainerization at the tertiary level should
endeavor to accord with longer-term proposals wherever possible. At this stage it is
proposedthat the project will providethe following:

     Fixed brick or concrete built roadside containers o f 1.5m3 - 2 m3 capacity each
     serving about 10-20 households. Waste will be disposed of into these containers
     directly by householders or by a system o f community operated handcarts or
     similar. The stored waste will be periodically collected by either community-
     based solid waste system or by city trucks, and disposed o f at municipal or
     district dumpsites.

e    The project may also facilitate the implementation o f Community Based SWM:
     Primary Collection -House to House waste collection to formal collectionpoints.

     Where necessary, the project may also facilitate the removal o f buildingmaterial
     andrubblefromproject sites

iv) Access Roads: Access roads will be developed to improve access to sites and
develop or maintain rights o f way. Road arrangements will define the layouts o f the
sites and the location o f other infrastructure. Careful attention will be paid duringthe
preparation o f the road layout in order to avoid affecting any existing superstructure.
Service levels and standards are as follows:

e    In flat areas, these access roads will be surfaced with cement concrete, water
     bound or bitumen macaddasphalt or gravel; in the hill areas, the access roads
     will generally be of lesserwidthbecause o f hfficult terrain but will all be paved
     to avoid erosion instorm times.

e    Normal road width standardswill be adjusted dependent on availability o f space.
     Normally local distributor roads withm communities will not exceed 6 m width
     withminorroads 3.5 meterwidth andfoot access 1.5 mwidth.

 v) Hill-side steps: In some of the selectedproject neighborhoods access to people's
homes i s very difficult since the houses are often located on steep slopes. In such
areas the project will:

e    Design andconstruct appropriate hill-side steps.

e    Provide surface water drains adjacent to these hillside steps.

vi) Drainage: Storm water drainage will be provided in communities in accordance
with overall drainage plans for the area. In all cases, the road construction will be
complemented by culvert construction, and roadside surface storm-water drains.
These will normally be o f open rectangular design and constructed with stone or
concrete. Where not already available an overall drainage plan for the area will be
prepared by the planning and design consultants talung account of complete
catchment areas. Hydraulic design will follow localnorms for rainfall andrun-off and
other drainage design parameters.

vii)Street Lighting: Where there is an existing operational power supply transformer
station in the project neighborhoods, the project will provide street lighting. In the
absence o f an existing operational power supply transformer station, alternative



                                         28

        systems need to be examined, e.g., a community maintained generator with simple
        distribution systemfor street lights.

        viii) Electricity Supply: This is often a service that is provided under area upgrading
        projects but int h s case it has not beenincluded. Inparallel with the KURP a major
        power projec?' ,which will complement the area upgrading component, as regards
        local distribution, will be implemented. The power project, apart from consolidating
        and expanding generation and transmission will focus on improvements to
        distribution systems down to the household connection level. A result o f this will be
        less electricity loss and generally more efficient supply.

        ix) ) Social Inffastructure:     Where existing facilities such as primary schools,
        lundergartens, primary health clinics, community halls and similar facilities are
        inadequate andor inneed o f repair the extension and rehabilitation o f such facilities
        maybe provided.

Cost BuildUp

6.      Mapping and Model OutlineDesign: Recent satellite imagery(2002) from which
digitizedbasemapsmaybe producedi s available w i t h the MUDHand this hasbeenused to
develop modelplans and designs from which service levels, standardsandultimately
estimated costshudgets for the project component have been developed. The planningand
design exercise was carried out with a team from the Water and Sanitation Department o f the
MUDHinthe two "model" settlements, oneonhllylandandoneonrelatively flat land.The
model design exercise applied generally followed the process outlinedbelow to arrive at the
component scope and costs. Finalplans and designs for the areas will o f coursebe dependent
on the community planningprocessto be carried out (see below).

7.      Service Levels and Standards:

    i)Thefundamentalprincipleisthatschemesshouldbedesignedtoaffordableservice
    levelshtandardsthat provide services that can be sustained. Inconsidering service
    leveldstandards consideration shouldbe given to the ability/willingness o fbeneficiaries
    to pay consumption chargesfor remunerative services supplied(e.g water, sewerage), as
    well as any contributionto capital costs.

    ii)Infrastructureimprovementsshouldbeplannedanddesignedtofunctional
    standardshervice levels andto strict cost limits (on aper hectare/per capita basis) for
    affordabilityheplicability reasons.M e r determiningcosts for service level andstandards
    options, indicative costs for two settlements typologies were calculated (see below). It
    should be notedthat with regardto costs the most likely componentsthat will be chosen
    are more "area sensitive" than "population sensitive" andthus costspresentedona per
    hectare basis are usually more meaningful. Costs will o f coursebe dependent on density,
    physicalconditions such as topography, soils etc. that mightbe encounteredinthe
    respective communities andthe condition o f existing infrastructure. Giventhe
    topographical differences incommunities costs have beenpresented for two differing
    physicalscenarios,namelysettlements onpredominantly flat landand those on
    predominantly hilly land.

    iii)Therearedifferenttypesofformal(planned)andinformal(unplanned)settlementsin
    the city butusuallyall are poorlyserviced. Project costshavebeendetermined by
    assumingan averagecost per hectare arrived at from the two model designs (one on hilly
    ground and one onrelatively flat land


21EmergencyPower ReconstructionProject- World Bank


                                                29

     iv) Itappears that from aphysicalviewpoint Kabul settlements couldbe dwided into 2 or
     3 typologies (relatively flat, very steep, andundulating). The outline planning, design and
     costing exercise carried out looked at two settlements, one o fwhichwas onrelatively flat
     landwith amore formal layout (Kartenaw) andthe other on steep slopeswith amore
     informallayout (Siasang). Kartenaw generally has generousrights o f way while Siasang
     has little access. n   s impacted on the service levels proposed for access ineach-
     relatively highinKartenaw (for access) but modest inSiasangas the amount o f access
     proposedwas muchless due to the topographcal and layout difficulties. With regardto
     standards, two options were costed. These were basedon quality o fmaterials -high
      (importedfrom Europe) or average (local or importedfrom the region). To enable a cost
     comparisonbetweenthe intermediate andfull service level scenarios, costs for the latter
 .   were determined bythe mission. The total indicative costs o fthe upgradingcomponent
     (excluding any trunk infrastructure requirements) when the model settlement costs are
     applied to the preliminary list of settlementsproposed are summarized below.

8.        Size of Project, Phasing and Costs: Experience has shown that it is unwise to
sensitizecommunities a long term before it is possible to implement improvements. Thusthe
4 year project i s dividedinto two phases with Phase 1covering about 40% o fthe project
(based on settlement area) andPhase 2 coveringabout 60%. Followinga participatoryprocess
i s also time consuming and it is important to be realistic on what is achievable ina given time
fraine. The preliminaryanalysis o fpriority settlementsinonly 5 Districts that will likely
qualify for upgrading totals some 50 settlements covering approximately 2,300 hectares. Thus
needs are considerable andonly a limitednumber o f settlements canbe coveredby the project
fromthe viewpoint o ftime as well as available budget.Thus currentproposalsare to
upgradetertiary infrastructurein a comprehensivemanner insettlementshousing
approximately250,000 peoplecoveringabout 1000hectares.

9.         For planning, design, procurement andconstruction reasonsthe "size" o f eachphase
willbe no more than as follows:

           Phase 1-400 ha (approx. 100,000 people) inabout 20 Gozars in 2-4 Districts
      a    Phase2 -600 ha(approx. 150,000 people) in25 Gozars in2-4 Districts.

10.        At anaveragecost ofUS$17,500 perhathen the total investment requiredfor the
tertiary infrastructure is US$17,500,000. With an allotment for connections to trunk
infrastructure, andthe provision of critical extensions andrehabilitationo f social
infrastructure, the overall cost of the component is $24.19 million. This component will be
financed by IDA.

11.        Itis inefficientto provide network infrastructure to small areasandthis should bea
consideration inthe detailedplanningo fthe component. Considering this, a maximum
community size, andprocurement realities, it i s proposed that eachmajor package o f work in
a community will cost betweenUS$400,000 andUS$500,000 equivalent to a settlement o f
about 22-28 hectaresinarea or a maximumsize o f community o fbetween 5,000 - 7,000
people. Thus a number o f gozars or only partso fgozars maybe covered inany one package
dependenton settlement size.

CommunityUpgradingPlans

12.        At the outset ofthe planningandengineering stage, bywhichtime the communities
to beincludedinPhase 1will have been agreedby all interestedparties includingthe World
Bank, a "semi-formal' planning group (e.g. a Community Based Organisation such as a
CommunityDevelopment Council or Community Action Group) willbe established within
the respective selectedcommunities to representthe community indevelopment oftheir


                                                 30

respective detailed Community UpgradingPlans. The involvement o fthe NGOpartnering the
consultants will be critical inthe managementand facilitation o fthis process. The process
will culminate inthe communities' priorities, (withinthe menuoffered) beingincludedina
preliminary Community Upgrading Plan.

13.      Followingpreliminary engineering andcosting the CUP will be takenback to the
community for further discussion, modification andagreement. On completion o fthe
consultations, the initial community proposals will beupdatedbythe consultants and a final
"Community Upgrading Plan (CUP)" will beproduced for eachcommunity. T h ~will not   s
only set out the physical layout and details o fthe proposed physical interventions proposed
butwill outline the participationprocess, the communityorganizations andcommunity
management structures, costs, routine andperiodic maintenanceprograms andfimding
proposals for operation andmaintenanceo f facilities to be provided. These will be developed
bythe consultants inconsultation withMutilityagenciesinfrastructure andservice
delivery/maintenance departments, District andSub-district officials andthe respective
communities and will be agreedbetweenall o fthem.

Trunk Infrastructure

14.      Inconsidering thelistofsettlementsandthecriteria for final selection of
communities to participate inthe project, the existingsituationwith regardto trunk
infrastructure and social facilities (e.g. primary schools, primaryhealthclinics etc) servingthe
communities needs to be considered. Suchprimaryor trunk infrastructure is requiredto
ensure that secondaryandtertiary infrastructure provided i s able to operate effectively.
Existingprovision and current plans (e.g. World Bank,KfW,USAID proposals, and the
likely timingoftheir implementation, withregardto the city's water supply systemandroad
systemhave beenreviewed). For Phase 1communities, servicing ofthe proposedtertiary
infrastructure should generally bepossible from existing systems, likewise existingprovision
o f social infrastructure should be adequate. However an allowance inthe project hasbeen
made inorder to provide critical "off-site" trunk infrastructure linksnot beingprovidedby
others and for extension andrehabilitationo f"on-site" social facilities where these are ahigh
priority o f a community anddeemedby the planningand design team to be critical.

DetailedPlanningandImplementation

15.      Implementation Arrangements: The proposed implementationarrangementsfor the
project are set out inAppendix 8. Details o fthe project will be set out ina simple Project
ImplementationManual (PIM). The content o f the PIM shouldbroadly follow that
recommendedbythe World Bank.Localconsulting firms with engineeringandcommunity
consultation skills will be engagedfor community facilitation, detailedplanning, engineering
design, contract packaging andpreparation o fbiddocuments, and subsequent contract
managementand construction supervision.

16.      Itis proposed that for bothPhase 1andPhase2, two firms will be engagedto cover
separate areas. Terms o f Referencehave been drafted for the assignments andprocurement o f
the consulting serviceshas commenced. The planning, design and contracts management
consultants will prepare anOperational Manualsetting out the steps followedinthe
community participation, planning and design exercise. This will serve as a guide for the
detailed design o fPhase 2 o fthe program, and also guide future upgradingactivities inKabul
andother cities andtowns inAfghanistan. This requirement hasbeenincluded inthe draft
Terms o fReference.

17.      Procurement: Contracts for works will be organized on an "area" basis andworks
doneby local contractors engagedfollowing national competitivebiddingprocedures andby




                                                 31

community contracting for smaller "stand-alone" works. A procurement planhasbeen
prepared(see Appendix 9).

18.      ConstructionManagement/Supervision: This will beprovidedby the localplanning,
design andcontractsmanagement consultants and i s includedinthe local PD& C TOR.
Support will beprovidedby the Project Management Unitinthe M'UDHandmore
specifically the Technical Support Unitto be staffed by consultants.Terms of Reference for
the TSUhave been drafted.

OperationandMaintenance

19.      Maininfrastructure to be constructed (i.e. water supply distributionnetworks, roads
anddrains) willbetaken over bythe responsible authorities for subsequentoperationand
maintenance (i.e. CWASS, KMrespectively). The public standposts to be provided are to be
operatedbythe community. The standpostswill be fittedwith ameter andthe CBO will be
responsible for collectingpayments for water suppliedand for payingthe regular water billto
CAWSS. The modalities for generalmanagement o fthe standpostsandpayment o fthe water
billwill beworked out through the communityplanningprocess. Gwenthe limitedcapacity
o f the Kabul Municipality to regularlyclean drains and sweep streets these functions could
also be carried out through the CBOs. Again the details will be decided uponwith through the
community planningprocesswith assistanceo fthe planninganddesign consultants. The
detailed proposals for solidwaste collection will be agreedwith the Kabul Municipalityand
the systemo f containersproposed will fit into the overall S W M system for the city that is
currently being designedby others. Operation andmaintenance agreementswill be set out in
the Community UpgradingPlans.




                                              32

Attachment 1to Apuendix 2- Service Level. Standards and Cost Matrices

Table 1- Levels of Service Options

  ServiceLevel            Service                         Description
1.Basic            Water              Shallow Well andor tanker supply
(approximates      Sanitation         Latrine-night soil collection andpublic toilets
generally to       Access             Earth-stone
existing service   Drainage           Unlinedopendrains
levels)            Refuse Collection  Informal dumps ad-hoc collection
                   Street lighting    Occasional lights
2. Intermediate    Water              Standpostfrompipedsystemaccording to water
                                      supply developmentplanwhich inhture could
                                      service individual houseconnections
                   Sanitation         WHtoilet to double pit composting latrine
                   Access             Part gravelled and part metalledsurface
                   Drainage           Secondary &key tertiary drains lined
                   Refuse Collection  Handcartsto communal fixedbrick containers
                   Streetlighting     Streetlights placedat strategic locations
3. Full            Water              MeteredIn-house Supply from pipedsystem
                   Sanitation         WHtoilet to city sewerage system
                   Access             AllAccessPaved
                   Drainage           All Drains LinedandCovered
                   Refuse Collection  Bins andRegular Door to Door Collection
                   Streetlighting     Fullstreetlightingnetwork




                                         33

Attachment 1to Appendix 2 (cont'd)

                               Table 2 Overall DesignStandards

    Service               Basic                   Intermediate                         Full
Water             Shallow linedwell        Standpipes to provide 50        Houseconnections to
                                           Vcldlocatedwithin               provide 80llcld servedby
                                           approx. lOOmo f every           planneddistribution system
                                           houseinflat areas and           usingHDPEpipe system
                                           50mper houseinhilly             laidto appropriate depths
                                           ueas servedbyplanned
                                           distribution systemusing
                                           HDPEpipe systemlaidto
                                           appropriatedepths
Sanitation        Onplot pit latrine for   Onplot twinpit latrine or       Individualhouse
                  nightsoil collection     shallow sewer system            connectionsto
                                                                           conventional sewerage
                                                                           systemeither combined or
                                                                           separate system
Access            Earthandlor stone        Mainroads 6.0m wide             Hierachyas for
                  access ways              andpavedwithconcrete            Intermediatebut all Main
                                           or WBM.                         roadspavedwith concrete
                                           Minor roads 3.5 mwide           or asphalt andMinor
                                           andpavedwith concrete           Roads andfootways with
                                           or WBM or gravelled in          bitmac or concrete.
                                           flat areas.
                                           FootwaysISteps 1.5m
                                           pavedwith concrete
Drainage          Drainage ditches         All drainageditches             Rectangular drains lined
                  excavatedto line and excavatedto line and                with concreteandcovered
                  levelbut unlined         level and linedwith             where heavy traffic and
                                           concreteor stonewith            pipedifcombined system
                                           drains bothside on roads        (see sanitation)
                                           and one side on footwavs
Rehse             Household dumping        Handcartsto communal            Door to door collection
Collection        to informal dumps        fixedbrick built                with household binsand
                                           containers at 1OOm              regular collectionby city
                                           walking distance with           trucks
                                           collection by city trucks
Streetlighting    Occasional lights        Streetlights (fluorescent       Comprehensive
                                           tubes) at roadjunctions,        streetlighting systemusing
                                           bendsetc                        sodiumor mercury vapour
                                                                           lamps

The project may also include critical off-site trunk infrastructure needs to service the tertiary
infrastructure as well as critical extension andrehabilitation o f social infrastructure facilities.




                                                34

Attachment 1to Appendix 2 (cont'd)

Table 3a - Service Levels and Standards Costs Matrix

Service Level: A. Intermediate Levelof Service

  ServiceIAv. Popn.          Density             Existing Design           FullDesignStandard- Cost
        Density             (Plotsha)             Standard-Cost                   (US$/Ha)

                                                           I             I            I
                                                 Flat      I   Hillv     1    Flat          Hillv
    Water Supply
   175-350 persha             25-50             2,235          3,400         4,200          6,200

      Sanitation

    175-350persha             25-50             1,680          3,100         1,680          3,100

        Roads

    175-350persha             25-50             2,330          4,800         10,850         4,800

    Storm Drainage

    175-350persha             25-50             5,770          5,000         4,780          5,000

  Refbse Collection

    175-350persha             25-50              245            400            245            400

     Streetlighting

    175-350persha             25-50             2,665          3,900          2,665         3,900

        TOTAL

    175-350persha             25-50             15,025         20,600        24,420         23,400

  COST PER PLOT
    175-350persha             25-50            601-300        824-412        977-488       936-468

 COST PER CAPITA
    175-350persha
 Average 250 persha          175-250            86-43      I   118-59     I  140-70    I    133-67
                                                  60             82            98              94
Note: Costs basedontl :work o fMHUI

11,2004.
Inadditionto theabove, anallowance hasbeenmadeinthe project for critical offsite trunk
infiastructurelinks as well as critical on site social infrastructure extension andrehabilitation.




                                                 35

Attachment 1to ADuendix 2 (cont'd)

Table 3a  - Service Levelsand Standards Costs Matrix


  ServicelAv. Popn.           Density             Existing Design         FullDesignStandard- Cost
        Density              (Plotsha)            Standad-Cost           1          (US$/Ha)
                                                            Ha)
                                                  Flat         Hilly
    Water Supply
   175-350 persha              25-50             2,235         3,400          9,000           11,200



   175-350persha               25-50             1,680         3,100         25,000           25,000

        Roads

   175-350persha               25-50             2,330         4,800         13,000            6,000

    StormDrainage

    175-350persha              25-50             5,770         5,000
                                                                              6,900      I     5,750  I
  RefuseCollection

    175-350persha              25-50              245           400

     Streetlighting

    175-350persha              25-50             2,665         3,900

        TOTAL

    175-350persha              25-50             15,025        20,600        57,600            53,100

  COST PERPLOT
    175-350persha              25-50            601-300       824412        2304-1152     I 2124-1062 I
                                                                                          I
 COST PER CAPITA                                                                                      I

    175-350persha
 Average 250 persha           175-250            86-43         118-59        329-230          303-152
                                                   60            82             230       1
                                                                                                201
                                                            the project : Ircritical offsite trunk
infrastructure links as well as critical on site socialinfrastructureextensionandrehabilitation.




                                                 36

                             Appendix 3: LandTenureRegularization
                              KabulUrban ReconstructionProject

Background

1.       Ithasbeenestimatedthat halfto three quarters ofKabul's populationlive in
settlements o fvaryingdegrees of informality. Landtenure irregularity is common inthese
settlementsandis thought to be an inhibitingfactor onhouseholdinvestments indwellingand
neighborhood improvements as well as a source of insecurity andvulnerability. Most of these
properties are also not includedinthe KabulMakhzan(Registry) thereby limitingthe utility
o fthis facility despiterecent andongoing recordrestoration andmanagementimprovement
initiatives. Regularization of landtenure inthese settlementswill reduce the constraints and
insecurity faced by the settlers andwill help to positionthe KabulMakhzan as aninstitution
central to the development o f the city.

Objectives

2.       This component o fthe Kabul UrbanReconstruction Project (KURP)aims to develop
an appropriate methodology and capacity to regularize urbanlandtenure inKabul and indue
course inurbancentersthroughout Afghanistan. The processesandcompetenciesto be
developed andtested include systematic, site-wide approachesto community mobilization,
adjudication and dispute resolution, surveying, mappingandregistration. The aimi s to better
understandthe complexities andinformal arrangementsthat governpresent landtenure
arrangements, andto devise, test andrefine appropriateprinciples, methods, technologies and
instruments for all aspects o f tenure regularization which can form the basis of a scaledup
programfor urbanAfghanistan. Inthis regard, this project component will also set out to
create aplanfor scaling uptenure regularization for all o f Kabul.

Approach

3.       Systematic, site-wide approachesto community mobilization, adjudication and
disputeresolution, surveying, mappingand registration will bepiloted infour communities
representative o f the spectrum o f landtenure complexity insettlements identifiedfor
upgrading. Usingthe recently completed maps o fKabulbasedon satellite imagery, the
processeswill bepiloted inapproximately 5,000 plots over the first two years of the project.

4.       The approachto be adoptedis patterned after Systematic Titling (ST) exercises
practiced internationally and which involve teams which typically includes a surveyorz2to
adjudicate and markboundaries and an adjudicatorz3who collects informatiodevidence on
rights inland.The fieldteam may also includea survey team for measuring the boundaries, or
verifyingboundaries identifiedfrom suitable mapping.The team operates systematically on a
whole district, sub-district or neighborhood basis. To be effective, ST needs to be a
transparent, participatoryprocesswhich is undertaken by field teams, operating withwell
documentedprocedures, andwith a production orientation. Inpractice a numberof field
teams are usually groupedtogether andwork withina field partythat operatesout o f a
temporary field office within the areabeingtitled. This facilitates access bythe community
andpromotes the participatoryprocess.The managero fthe fieldpartywill oversee arange o f
functions including: general management, disputeresolution, community education and
awareness (CES) andpublic notice o f adjudication decisions. Dependinguponthe situation,


'*Typically  a person with technical training-a certificate or diploma - rather than a geodetic engineer.
23Not necessarily a lawyer, but typically someone with extensive experience inland administration.
Although some countries permit adjudication to be undertakenby contract or private sector staff, most
countries insist that this function be undertakenby civil servants.


                                                  37

the field party may alsoprovide legal support to helpthe publicprove and/or identityrights to
address issues suchas inheritance.

5.       Internationaland local experts will be involved inthe design, initiation, monitoring
andevaluationofthe pilots andwill buildcapacity withm the localimplementingAgencies,
particularly the Afghanistan Geodesy and Cartographic Head Office (AGCHO), the recently
established specialproperty court andthe Kabul Makhzan(Registry) through the
development o fmanuals, the acquisitionof surveyingandplotting equipmentand vehicles,
the conduct o ftraining inboththe technical andproject managementprocessesas well as
hands-on engagemento f staff inthe implementationo fthe pilots. It is anticipatedthat at the
height o f the pilots, four teams will operate simultaneously. The AGCHO has indicated
adequateexisting staff capacity to be deployed for the pilot exercisesafter appropriate
training. The total estimatedcost o fthe component is $0.64 millionwith approximately two
thirds spent on international andlocal technical assistance andonethirdspent onrequired
equipment and vehicles.

ImplementationArrangements andTiming

6.       The MUDHPMU, with assistancefiomthe TSU andthe LandTenure Consultants
will convene a LandTenure Technical Committee comprising representativesofall
stakeholder agenciesas well as others with related expertise. Participation inthis committee
will includebut notberestricted to the JudicialReformCommission, AGCHO, Supreme
Court and District Court (Makhzan) andthe Kabul Municipality. The LandTenure Technical
Committee will beresponsible for coordinatingthe inputs fromthe respective agencies and
for direction o fthe consultants engagedonthe component. The majority o fthe pilots will be
executedduringthe secondyear o fthe project, however design andinitiation o fthe processes
will begin inthe latter halfofthe first project year. A formal evaluation ofthe pilots will be
conducted inthe first quarter o fthe thirdproject year.

AnticipatedOutputsandOutcomes

7.       The outcome ofthe component will beviableprocesses, manuals andinstruments for
eachaspect oftenure regularization including suggestedprinciples for adjudication and
dispute resolution which maybe later embodied intopolicy or law. The exercisewill also
produce anactionplanfor scaling uptenure regularization for the rest o f Kabul including a
detailingo fthe anticipatedresources. Where the existinglegal framework is adequatefor
fully resolvingthe disputesor rectifying the irregularities discovered duringthe pilots, the
outcome will includethe actual regularizationo f the tenure so longas the affectedparties
adopt the available courseo fresolution and are able to complete it within the spano fthe
program. The buildingo fcapacity inthe Afghan Geodesy and Cartography HeadOffice
(AGCHO) will also assistthis Agency inplaying apro-active developmental role. This
initiative complements the ongoingwork to computerize and improve records management in
the Kabul Makhzanbeingsupported byUSAID as well as that Agency's interest infunding a
roll-out o f systematictitling approachesafter an appropriate methodology i s developed.

8.       The total cost ofthis component is estimated at US$640,000. US$ 260,000 will be
financed by IDA for goods. US$370,000 will be co-financed for consultants services.




                                                 38

                    Appendix 4: Engineeringand ManagementSupport
                            KabulUrbanReconstructionProject
Introduction

1.      Thls component includes the technical assistance that is to be engagedto assist
detailedplanningand design activities andmanagement and programimplementationsupport.
The sub-componentsmalungup this component are:

         a) Technical Support Unitto the programManagement UnitinMUDH;
        b) Planning, Designand Contract Managementconsultants for detailedpreparation of
         the areaupgradingcomponent;
         c) Auditors for annual project audit;
         d) Periodic Technical, EnvironmentalandSocial Safeguardsmonitoring;
         e) Vehicles andEquipmentfor the PMU;
         f) Project Operating Expenses.

Technical Support Unit(TSU) to the MUDHPMU

2.       The MUDHis to form a ProgramManagementUnit(PMU) staffedupwith localstaff
either already withinthe Ministryor to be engaged. The PMUwill be supported by a
Technical Support Unit(TSU) that will consist o fa team o f specialists. The PMUand TSU
will be responsible for managing the whole project although some components (i.e. roads
programand structure planswill be co-financed andthus will also have detailed oversight by
others). The TSUwill be madeup of a core team o f specialists with wide international
experience andlocal specialists. It i s envisagedthat an international consultingfirmin
association with a local firmwill be engagedto form the TSU. Intemational specialists with
experience o f working on donor-funded projects will include amunicipal engineer with
experience o f area upgrading projects, a financial specialist with experience ofproject
accounting, a procurement specialist and a social planner/community facilitation specialist.
Each core teammember will have a localpartnerinthe TSU and the team will be supported
bytermspecialists, as mayberequiredfromtimeto time. The estimated cost ofthe TSUis
US$2,640,000. This will be co-financed.

Planning,Designand ContractsManagementConsultants

3.       The Area Upgrading component o fthe project will bemanagedbythe MUDH
through the Program Management Unit. The Kabul Municipalitywill support the
implementation o fthe component through a Project Support Team consisting o fKabul
Municipality Staff who intheir line fimction dutiesare requiredto input into the project.
Community Based Organizations ineach selectedgozar will prioritize needed services,
decide on a service standardpackage with the assistanceo f Planning, Design and Contracts
Management (PD&C) Consultants. For community facilitation, detailed planning, engineering
design, contract packaging andpreparation o fbiddocuments, and subsequent contract
management and construction supervision, local consultingfirms inassociation withlocal
NGOswill be engaged.Itis proposedthat for bothPhase 1andPhase 2, two firms will be
engaged to cover separate areas. Terms of Referencehave been drafted for the assignments
andprocurement o fthe consultingservices has commenced. The estimated cost o f the
Planning, DesignandContracts Management Consultancies is US$1,027,500. This will be
co-financed.

Audits
4.       Annual audits o fproject accounts will be necessaryand it is envisagedthat one firm
of auditors will be engagedto cany out the audit work for each o fthe 4 years o fthe program.
The estimatedcost o fthe auditors is US$lOO,OOO. This will beco-financed.


                                               39

Technical, Environmentaland Social Monitoring

5.       Itis arequirement ofthe projectto monitor implementation andassess the extent to
which the project is achieving development objectives. Although it i s not arequirement to
have anEIA and anEMPneverthelessit is necessaryto monitor the extent to which the
project i s meetingenvironmental codes ofpractice. Inadditionthe monitoringo fpoverty
reduction impacts is required. To h s end consultantswill be engagedperiodically to carry
out the monitoring andto check againstthe monitoring andevaluation indictors (Appendix
12). The estimated cost o fthe two consultanciesenvisagedis US$lOO,OOO. This will be
financed by IDA.

OperatingExpenses-ImplementingAgencies
                                                          ~




6.       The project will fund eligible operating expenses for I A s (i.e. MUDH,PMU, PST,
AGCHO). Eligibleexpenses include consumables (e.g fie1for project vehicles) but not
salaries o f civil servants andlocal authority officers. The estimated cost of operating expenses
i s US$250,500. This will be financed by IDA.




                                                 40

              Appendix 5: OverallCapacityBuildingfor KabulMunicipality
                             KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

1.       Introduction.Under the 1964Constitution, all localauthorities fall under the
Ministry of Interior (MOI), except for Kabul. KabulMunicipality is somewhat o f an anomaly
inthe systemwith a far greater independence thanany oftheother municipalities. Ithasthe
status o f a Ministrywhich has a number o f implications for its hctioning.

2.       The Mayor and the top Managers are appointed by the President. The rest o f the
staff are appointed bythe Municipality(unlike other Municipalities where staff are appointed
bythe MOI).

3.       Unlike other municipalities, the budget o f the Kabul Municipality is approved by the
Ministryo fFinance. Like other municipalities ithas independence inrevenue generation,
budgeting andplanning and expenditure control andprocurement. Systems for revenue
generation, its administration, planning, budgetingand expenditure do exist inKM. These
can be improved.

4.       RevenueGeneration.The Kabul Municipality generates a fairly significant revenue.
In1381, it generatedapproximately US$2,5 millionfromitsseveral sources ofrevenue
including the rental tax, safiyi tax (a cleaning charge), market rental, business permissions,
imports, business tax, selling o fmunicipal property, fines, documents, entrance fees anda tax
on NGO's.

5.       Nevertheless, several improvements are possible. First, the tax rates require review.
For example, the valuation o fproperty for the safiyi tax last occurred in 1978. The highest
charge on this tax is currently US$4. Second, tax administration is onerous. For the tax-
payer it involves several visits to several departments. Third, the KM,they have n o right o f
enforcements over non-payment. Finally, inthe absence o f national policy on municipal
taxation andrevenues, there is currently a risk o fthe KMimplementingtax policy contrary to
nationalpolicy.

6.       PlanningandBudgetingsystems are inplace. Identification o fexpenditure needs
occurs at 3 levels. Each departments identifies its existing operations andmaintenance needs
andsubmits to Finance andPlanningDepartment its staffestimates (tashkeel) andits budget
estimates (tarsis) inthe 8" montho f the year. At the District Level, the district officers,
together with Walul's, identify needed community investments. Finally, at the municipal
level, development projects are also identified.

7.       However, there are several problem inthis process. Departmental budget plans and
their increases are usually based on last years budget plus a top-up. Currently, Kabul is
undergoing some infrastructure development. Thls i s set to increase dramatically over the
next few years. The affected departments will have to institute a process to assist them in
projecting what additional funding will requiredfor the additional 0 & Mfor the newly
constructed infrastructure. Second, the KMbudget (discussed above) does not include a
development budget. The development budget is negotiatedwith the M o F every year. It is,
however, unclear how the development needs are prioritizedby KM. Clearly, KMthus
requires a capital budget identification andprioritizationprocess.

8.       Finally, KMdoes contain a detailed systemo fexpenditure management. However,
this is paper based and difficult to monitor. To illustrate: Salaly Expendituresare controlled
bythe salary unitwhich receives attendance sheets from all departments and districts between
the 15' and 20' o fthe month. The payroll is prepared and then submitted to the disbursement
unit(under the IncomeDepartment). Basedonapprovedpayroll, a Payment request (M16) is
prepared, followed by a visit to the Bank to get the checks issued. The checks are signed by
the Headof Disbursement andthe Head o f Income. Each department head (including district

                                                 41

Head) gets one check each. A `Trustee' then cashesthe check, accompanied by 2 others.
These three then distribute the money to employees. Each employee payroll has their name,
grade,   serial number, basic salary, special allowances (for technical staff) and food allowance.

9.        Consequently, the Municipalityo f Kabul will be assisted inimproving its finance
h c t i o n including revenue generation, financial management, asset management, and
budgeting andplanning. The targeted departments include the planningandfinance
department andall related sub-departments, the income department, the properties department
andthe control office. An initial assessmento fthe KMfinance function will occur, building
on existing analyses o fKabul Municipality, with recommendations on improvement. The
development of simple systems to improve efficiency will be designed and implemented
under the project.

10.       The total size o fthe component is US$300,000 and will be co-financed.




24These include Background information on Local Governance inKabul Municipality. Notes
informingthe preparation o fthe Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project and Notespreparedby Jean Marc
Le Pain as part o f an ARTF supportedTA to the Municipality o fKabul.

                                                  42

             Appendix 6: Structure PlanningandFutureProjectPreparation
                             KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

Issues inPlanninginAfghanistan

1.       The current Master Plan is outdated. The last plan for Kabul was a Master Plan,
prepared in 1978. Since the preparation o f that plan, the city has seen 23 years o fwar,
significant population growth andnumerous government changes

2.       The Planningsystem is outdated. Since 1978, the planning field has made significant
changes inthe way that city plans are prepared. Master Plans are now considered in-flexible
and unrealistic. Numerous other types o fplans, such as structure plans, concept plans and
integrated development plans have thus replacedthem.

3.       The 23 years o f war inAfghanistan andthe numerous government changes have left
behind a planningframework that has not taken into account such changes inthe field of
planning.

4.       There is a planningvacuum. Most recently, the Master Planhas been suspended by
the Ministryo f Urban Development andHousing as a planning tool for the municipality; thus
leaving a vacuum inoperations.

5.       There is lack o f clarity o froles andresponsibilities inplanning. The current situation
inplanningisthat the MinistryofUrbanDevelopment andHousingisresponsible for the
planningofAfghanistan's cities, andthe municipalitiesare responsible for the
implementation o f the plan. Inpractice, the roles andresponsibilities between the two are
often blurred.

6.       Linkage between Plans and Future Proiect. There is little or no hlstory o f linking
plans to investments andbudgets.

why do these need to be addressed
7.       Barrier to Secure Tenure. Currently, many settlements fall outside the Master Plano f
Kabulor fall withinareasnot identifiedas residential according to the Master Plan. Most
often, these areas house poor residents, IDPs andreturnees. Residents in these areas do not
have security o f tenure. One o f the barriers to grantingtenure inthese areas is that they lie in
areas not legally recognized as residential bythe Master Plan.

8.       Barrier to the provision o f services. The lack o frecognition o fthese areas is also a
barrier to the provision o f services by the municipality.

9.       Identification o f Vacant Land. The planwill also identify suitable vacant landfor
further housing development. f i s i s crucial to accommodate further development for IDPs
andreturnees.

 10.     Environmental Sensitivities andWater Problems. Kabul is growing at a stupendous
rate. There is daily influx into the city. However, some o fthe landinKabul is
environmentally sensitive. Furthermore, water resources inthe city are scarce. Development
inthese areaswillbedetrimental to settlers andto the environment ofKabul. The rightto
landshouldbebalanced against environmental issues.

 11.     Ad-hoc and piecemeal development. Currently inKabul, there are several piecemeal
and ad-hoc developments -many supported by donor agencies. Such a planwill help identify
where these initiatives are, what they are and what other initiatives are required andthe
required locationo f such initiatives.



                                                 43

12.      Crisis inMUDHandMunicipalities. The vacuum inplanninghas createda crisis in
the MUDHand Municipalities, all o fwhom are unsure onwhat they should be doing. It i s
also close to creating a crisis inthe development o fKabulas it expands.

Detailed Component Description

13.      This component o fthe project will assistthe MUDHandthe selectedmuni~ipalities~~
withthe preparation ofa development plan andpreparea htureproject; buildcapacity in
planninginthe MUDHandthe selectedmunicipalities; beginaprocessofinstitutionalization
o f aplanningprocess inthe cities o f Afghanistan.

14.      The developmentplan willbeproduced inaparticipatory manner takinginto account
the development needs at the communityineighborhood level, the district level andthe
municipal level. The planwill include:

         a. The Current Status o f landuse inthe selectedmunicipalitiesincluding a typology
             o fneighborhoodsidistricts o f the city by mainuse (commercial, residential etc),
             type o f occupants (include income etc), type ofhousing, etc, LandAssessment
             includingvacant land, environmentally sensitive landetc.

         b. The Current Economic andSocial StatusQuointhe selected municipalities
             includingcurrent Economic StatusQuo ofthe selectedmunicipalities including
             growth sectors, industries, employment, a mapping o f economic activities,
             current Socio Economic Status Quo o f the selectedmunicipalities including
             informationon income, schooling, etc. l k s will be mapped.

         c.  The Current Infrastructure status quo andplannedfuture infrastructure
             developments inthe city.

         a. An InvestmentPlan for the city basedon current infrastructureidevelopment
             needs.

         b. Future development planfor the city, its districts andneighborhoods basedonan
             examination o f a numberof growth scenarios. Factors to consider will include
             economic growth, andpopulation growth andneeds, amongst others.

         a. Feasibility study for a future urbaninvestment operation covering city-wide
             services inKabul and other towns. This will explore options for serviced lands,
             includingcosting o f alternative standards, availability o f developable land with
             access to infrastructure inappropriate locations, feasibility o f scaling up, given
             the infrastructure, landandfinancing constraints.

15.      Capacity Building: The plannersinthe MUDHandthe selectedmunicipalities will
receive on thejob training andcapacity development through the process o fpreparingthe
plan.

 16.     A trainingprogramincurrent planningtechniques consisting o fa series o fstudy
tours, seminars, lectures and on thejob technical assistance will be developed for the planners
o f the selectedmunicipalitiesand the MUDH. Suggestedseminar topics will include

         a. ConceptsinPlanning-an examination o f structure planning, integrated
             development planning, landuse management.
         b. Tools for Planning-includingGIS systems, datacollection systems and
             methodology.


25 Kabul, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad, Kandahar.

                                                 44

       c. Processes for Planning-includingparticipatoryplanning, integrationo fplanning
             and budgeting.

17.    Towards the Institutionalization of Planning. Some clarification ofthe roles and
responsibilities o feacho fthe agencieswill emerge, through the preparation ofthe plan.
These will be documented and submitted to the MUDHfor consideration. As the structure
planisproduced, aprocessto institutionalize aparticipatoryplanningsystemwill emerge.
Ths will be documented andsubmittedto MUDHfor consideration.

18.    One consultant packagewill bebidfor this component.

19.    The total cost for this component US$1,640,000 and will be co-financed.




                                             45

            Appendix 7: MainRoads,DrainsandTraffic ManagementinKabul
                             KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

1.       Giventhat there are manypriorities for roads anddrains inKabulMunicipality, this
component takes a programmatic approach. It will commencewith the selection and
justification o f investments from the various lists that have beenput forward and will take
account o fthe on-going and proposed schemes (e.g. USAID supportedroad proposals as well
as the on-going Rapid RoadRepair Project). The component consists of 6 "generic" sub-
components as follows:

         a) New Construction
         b) Reconstruction
         c) Repair and Overlay
         d) Primary Drainage ChannelsProvisionandRehabilitation
         e) SecondaryDrainConstruction andRepair
         f) Critical Traffic ManagementImprovements

2.       The prioritization of the roads and drains to be includedunder each sub-component
will be selectedfromthe longlist ofpriorities putforward by KabulMunicipality, following
analysis andjustification by consultants (see below). With regardto the proposed traffic
managementcomponent, the report o fthe MUDHTraffic Management Advisor will be
utilized andadvice fromthe Traffic Management Unito fthe MUDH, shortly to be formed,
will be sought. AnUrbanTraffic ManagementAdvisory Group with most keyactors
representedis already inplace andmeets regularly. The Traffic Management Advisor has
produced a Traffic Management Report that should prove useful inframinga short-term
critical actions program.

 3.      Co-financing is beingsought to fund consultants for the final prioritization, design
 and contract management, and supervision o f construction o fthe roads anddrains. Co-
 financing for execution o fthe civil works is also being sought.

 4.      The Major UrbanRoads andDrainage Component o fthe KURP, together with cost
 estimates, contract packaging andprocurement arrangementsis set out inTable 1below.




                                                 46

     3    C




                  I'
                   d




      i   0
          0
          ai.
          vl




      I-      -




0
Y
1

                        Appendix 8: DetailedImplementationArrangements
                                      KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

OverallManagement

1.     Overall management o fthe total project will be the responsibility o fMinistryofUrban
Development andHousing (MUDH).

2.     The Ministrywill set up aProgram Management Unit(PMU) consisting ofMUDHStaff
to manage all components o fthe program.

3.      They will be supported by a Technical Support Unit (TSU) consisting of a Consultant
Firm.

4.      The skills presentinthe PMUandthe TSUwill includebutisnotrestrictedto Project
Management, Procurement, and FinancialManagement.

5.      The MUDHwill also appoint separateConsultants to support it inrealizingthe different
components of the project.

6.      Kabul Municipality will appoint a Project Support Team (PST) to meet as and when
requiredto support the project. The PST will beheadedby a Project Liaison Officer (PLO) who
will work onthe project on a fulltimebasis.

                         FigureOne: OverallImplementationArrangements:




                                                              MUDHPMU



       ComponentA:                    ComponentB:           ComponentD:          ComponentE:          ComponentF
       UPGRADING             IANEIREG-TION                     IIMFM              PLANNING                ROADS




     Pmject Suppolt Team           Land 1-     T*chnlcd
                                        ccamrrm*e         Pmject Suppolt Team  Pmject Suppoa Team P q e c t Suppolt Team
            KM*                       MUDH,JRC, KM               KM*                  KM*                   KM*
                                       AGCHO etc




                      Gozar C B O C D C
                       c o m u n l t y




                                                             48

Part A: Area UpgradinginKabul

7.       The UrbanUpgradingComponent ofthe project will be managedbythe MUDHthrough
the ProgramManagement Unit (PMU), supported by the Technical Support Unit(TSU).

8.       The KabulMunicipality will support the implementationof the component through a
Project Support Team (PST) consisting of KabulMunicipality Staff who intheir line function
dutiesarerequiredto inputinto the project. This group may be loosely convened as and when
required.

9.       The roles andresponsibilityofthe MUDHandthe KMis set out inFigure One.

10.      TheTSUwill assist the MUDHPMUandthe KMincarrying out thisproject component.

11.      Community BasedOrganizations (CBO's) such as a Community DevelopmentCouncil
(CDC) or Community Action Group (CAG) representing a community ineach selectedgozar will
prioritize needed services, decide on a service standardpackage and supervise contractors. They
willbe assistedby a Planning, Designand Contracts Management (PD&C) consultant.

12.       An indicative process ofpreparation, design andimplementationi s as follows for the
preparation and design:

(i)Appointment o f Consultants: The MUDH,assistedby the PMU and the TSUwill appoint
planning, design and contract management(PD&C) Consultant`s. There will be one PD&C
Consultant per district. However, one fir"G0          i s not precluded from biddingfor more than one
district. The PD &C Consultant i s expected to havebothcommunity mobilization and
engineering skills and willbe most likely be procuredthoughN S or NCB.

(ii)Communitv PlanningProcessz6.The PD & C Consultant will engage with the community ina
participatory planningprocessto, amongst others, (i)       identify community priorities, (ii) on
                                                                                               decide
the level of services requiredineacharea; (iii)     participate and inputinto the planning and design
of the infrastructure. Inthe selectedcommunities where a pilot LandTenure Regularization
Programwill be undertaken (see Component B), the PD& C Consultant will also assistthe
Systematic Titling Team inthis process. The followingprocessesi s suggestedfor the Community
PlanningProcess:
     0    The PD& C Consultant will engage inan education campaign onthe project.
     0    The PD& C Consultant will organize aneighborhoodofa few streets (approx. 150
          families) to a community meetingto select two neighborhoodrepresentatives (one male
          and one female).
     0    Neighborhoodrepresentativeswill sit onthe Community Development Council. The
          representatives will elect a Chair o fthe CDC.


26 The project consideredtwo basic options for community mobilization. The first useda traditional
community consultation called the shura systemwhich consists o f appointed representatives andthe second
formed an elected CDC. Mercy Corp, an international NGO, hadusedboth a CDC system and a shura
systemwithin a single project inacross 30 gozars o f Kabul. The project assistedcommunities in
prioritizing investments to the sum o f $ 14 000 . Mercy Corp found that the community consultation
mechanism didnot affect the type o fprojects prioritized. However, the choice betweenthe shura and CDC
system involveda tradeoff betweenrepresentivity and time. The shura system didnot allow for the
participation ofwomen but took less time than the CDC system which did allow for the greater
representation o f women on the council.


                                                     49

  The elected CDC representative will sit on an Area PlanningCommittee. The District
  Officer (DO) or hisherrepresentative will sit as amemberof this committee ina
  technical capacity -but will have no voting power.
e Neighborhoodrepresentativeswill collect priorities onprojects and preferences on
  standardswith assistance from the PD& C Consultant.
0 After eachoftheneighborhood representativeshas collected the priorities andstandards
  from their neighborhoods, a 2 day meetinglworkshop will be heldto develop a
  community upgradingplan(CUP), and a subsequentinvestment plan.
  This investment planwill subsequentlybe (i) by the PD& C Consultants; and(ii)
                                                costed
  formulated into an area wide investment plan. The latter will also have `filled in' any off
  site services, and missinginfrastructure links.
e A meetingofthe Area PlanningCommitteewillbeheldwithKMDOandMUDH
  Planningdepartment for comment andto work out operational ongoing service delivery
  implications for KM.
e The results of the above, including the service delivery implications for KMand the
  comments o fthe KMand MUDH,will betaken back for a planre-prioritization process
  at the CDC level first, and at the APC level second.
  Itis expectedthat the neighborhoodrepresentativeswill take these results backto their
  neighborhoods.
  Newprioritization will be resubmitted for recosting by the PD& C Consultants after
  changes are approved at the CDC and APC level.
  The new plan will be re-submittedto the gozars level and DPC level for ratification.
  Theratifiedplanwill be submittedto the District Office andKMfor final ratification and
  inclusioninto the existing systemandto determine its impacts onthe primary
  infrastructure (e.g. On the S W M system, on roads 0 & Metc).
e Theplanwill also beintegrated into the strategic planning component o fthe project (See
  Part E: Structure Plan andPreparation o fNew Project)
0 The PD& C Consultant will alsoprepare procurement packagesandbiddingdocuments.
  Itis expectedthat these will be dividedinto larger ones for network services; and smaller
  labor basedones for community participation.




                                           50

-
t



t



t



t
     .-E
   - bn
     v)
     a
     a,
     .-
     a"
     id
     I

13.    For implementation, the following i s envisaged:

0  Subsequentto the preparationo fbidpackagesby the PD& C Consultants, the MUDHP M U
   will conduct a tender processwith the assistance o fthe TSU.
0  Larger network infrastructure will bepackaged as amulti-sectoralpackagewithin a selected
   geographic area.
0  Community basedcontracts will be packaged as stand-aloneprojects.
0  The MUDHandKMwill sit onthe tender committee whichwill berunby the TSU.
0  The successful contractor will implement the civil works inthe targeted area, butwill do so in
   consultation with the CDC/CBO.

14.    Roles and Responsibilities o f government and communities actors are listedbelow.

15.    Government Actors


0  The MUDHwill manageproject: This will include co-ordinationof actorsinthe process,
   procurement, financial management, evaluation ofbiddocuments, and tenders, and award
   contracts. They will also assist inengineering design, supervision andplanning on an as
   neededbasis. This will occur through the PMUwith assistance from the TSU.

   The KabulMunicipality will assistinoperationalising the project. This will include the
   coordinationof municipal inputinto project, assistanceinthe community facilitation process,
   inputinto district planningprocess,ratification ofplans, assistance inengineeringdesign,
   incorporationof 0 & Minto daily functioning of municipality.
0  CAWS will approve plans relatingto water supply.

16.    Community Actors


0  The Area PlanningCouncil will discuss, co-ordinate andratifydistrict plan. They will be
   assistedbythe PD& C Consultants. The District Officer will also lendtechnical inputto the
   APC
0  The CBOKDC will take decisions on standards of servicesandprioritize community
   neededprojects. They will also play arole inthe operations and maintenance of some
   infrastructure.
0  MoF will requestrelease of funds basedon fulfillmento f criteria of accountability and
   transparency. MoF will audit the project as it deems fit.
0  Alternate implementationarrangementscan be agreedwith IDA.




                                               52

Roles andResponsibilities inKURP: Upgrading Component

                                             Consultantsand Contractors




                           .................




             CDC
      . . .
         t c o "
    Bmntx&neededs e m e
    DecideQn S d e Package
         ma!a."%
   operate 5m@ipes m    m




                                              53

Part B: KabulLand Tenure Regularization

17.     Internationaland local experts will be involved inthe design, initiation, monitoring and
evaluation of the pilots and will buildcapacity within the localimplementing Agencies,
particularly the AGCHO, the recently established special property court and the KabulMakhzan
(Registry) though the development o fmanuals, the acquisition of surveying and plotting
equipment and vehicles, the conduct of training inboththe technical and project management
processesas well as hands-on engagementof staff inthe implementationof the pilots. It i s
anticipated that at the heighto fthe pilots, four teams will operate simultaneously. The AGCHO
has indicatedadequate existingstaff capacity to be deployed for the pilot exercises after
appropriate training. The total estimated cost of the component isUS$0.64millionwith
approximatelytwo thirds for technical assistance and one thirdfor equipment and vehicles.

18.      The MUDHPMU, with assistance fromthe TSUandthe LandTenure Consultants will
convene a LandTenure Technical Committee ofrepresentatives of all stakeholder agencies as
well as others withrelatedexpertise. Participationinthis committee will includebutnot be
restricted to the Judicial Reform Commission, Afghanistan Geodesy and Cartographic Head
Office, Supreme Court andDistrict Court (Makhzan) and the KabulMunicipality. The Land
Tenure Technical Committee will beresponsible for coordinatingthe inputsfrom the respective
agencies and for direction of the consultants engagedon the component. The majority o f the
pilots will be executed duringthe secondyear ofthe project, however design and initiation of the
processeswill begininthe latter halfof the first project year. A formal evaluation o fthe pilots
will be conducted inthe first quarter o fthe thirdproject year.

Part C: Engineeringand ManagementSupport

19.      This component includes the technical assistanceand consultingservicesrequiredto
carry out detailed design, implementand manage the project. Itwill be managedby the PMU,
aidedby the TSU. The PMUwill beresponsible for oversight o f the whole project, althoughthe
detailed design and management of the co-financed components will also involve the co-
financiers. It also includes technical assistancefor financial audits and monitoring and evaluation.

Part D: Overall CapacityBuildingfor KabulMunicipality

20.      This component will be implementedby KM.The MUDHwill appoint aFinancial
Management Consultant to assist the KMto carry out this component o fthe project. This
consultant will be basedat the KMand will report to the appropriate departmental headinKM.

Part E: StructurePlan and Preparation of a FollowUp Project

21.      This component will bemanagedbythe MUDH,together withthe relevant municipality.
The MUDHwill contract PlanningConsulting F i d s to assist it inthe development o fplans.
The Structure PlanTeamconsisting ofplanners from the relevant Municipality and from the
MUDHwill, together withthe appointedConsultant, undertake the work ofpreparationofthe
Plans. They will be convened by the MUDHPMU, assistedby TSU andthe PlanningConsultant.

Part F : Primary RoadsandDrainage Reconstruction

22.      Thiscomponent will be managedby the PMUinMUDHbut daily involvement ofthe
KMthoughthePSTandthe RoadsDepartment willbenecessary.Consultants willbeengagedto
justify andprioritize road, drainage andtraffic managementproposals put forward byKM.
Subsequently, they will design (to be reviewedand approved by KM)and preparethe bid

                                                   54

documents. The PMUwill organize the procurement and evaluation assisted by the TSU and the
PST and, for technical issues, the design consultants. Contracts will be between respective
winningcontractors and the MUDH(PMU). Supervision ofconstructionwillbe by consultants.




                                                 55

                          Appendix 9: ProcurementArrangements
                              KabulUrbanReconstructionProject
General

1.       Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out inaccordancewith the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" datedMay 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f ConsultantsbyWorldBank Borrowers" datedMay
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Credit Agreement. The general description o f various
itemsunder different expenditure category are described. For eachcontract to be financed by the
Credit, the differentprocurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior reviewrequirements,and time frame are agreedbetween the
Borrower and the Bankproject team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be
updated at least annually or as requiredto reflectthe actual project implementationneeds and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

2.       Procurement of Works: Works procuredunder this project, will include: area upgrading
o f water supply, roads, sanitation etc. The procurement will be done usingthe Bank's Standard
BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB andNational SBDagreedwith (or satisfactory to) the
Bank. The small valuedcontracts estimated to cost not more than US$50,000 equivalent may be
procuredby Community Based Organizations through the following procedures for physical
works (inaccordance with Section I11o f the Bank Procurement Guidelines):

         (i)     Execute the works themselves by employing labor and by procuring the needed
                 materials through shopping by inviting quotations from local vendors (at least
                 three quotations must be obtained); or
         (ii)    Award the whole or part o f work on Direct Contract to uniquely qualified
                 community organizations or NGOs; or
         (iii)   Award the whole or part of the work to qualified domestic contractors after
                 invitingquotations (at leastthree quotations mustbeobtained).

3.       Incaseofemergenciesor to complete any unfinishedworks without disruptingother
ongoing operations, the Force Account methodmay be applied, with the Association's prior
approval.

4.       Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project will include vehicles &
equipment. The procurement will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD
agreedwith (or satisfactory to) the Bank. Direct Contractingfor urgentrepairheplacement work
with the original equipment manufacturer may beadopted withthe Association's prior approval.
Shopping upto US$lOO,OOO may also be adopted.

5.       SeZectionof Consultants: Consultants' Servicesrequiredare for EngineeringDesign,
Contract Management, Project Management, Auditing Services, Planning, M&Eand Financial
Management. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely ofnational consultants inaccordancewith the
provisions ofparagraph2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. For services exceeding US$lOO,OOO
preferred methodof selection will be QCBS and for less than US$lOO,OOO selection by CQ may
be adopted. For selection of Individual Consultant, IC Guidelines may be followed. Sole source
selection maybe undertaken on prior approvalbyIDA on an exceptional basis.

6.       The ProgramManagement Unit(PMU) of MUDHwill have the overallresponsibility for
procurement underthe project, with the assistanceof the TSU, and the Government Procurement
Unit(GPU). The PMUwill haveanumber ofprocurement staff.

                                                  56

7.       An assessment o fthe capacity o fthe MUDH to implement procurement actions for the
project was carriedout the Bank inNovember 2003. The assessmentreviewedthe
organizational structure for implementingthe project and the interactionbetween the project's
staffresponsible for procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and
finance.

8.       Most o f the issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for implementationof
the project have been identifiedand include very little experience inInternational Procurement,
little knowledge o f competitiveprocurement system and lack of capacity to communicate in
Englishlanguage.

9.       Basedon the above information, and the overall public procurement environment inthe
country, the overall procurement risk for the project i s considered as "High". Actions agreed to
mitigate the risks involves:

     0   The Ministryprocurement staff will be supervised by an international procurement
         consultant of the Technical Support Unit. This will provide opportunities to all
         procurement staff to get on-the-job training and exposure to international procurement
         procedures.
     0   The procurement staff will take part infuture training courses onprocurement, arranged
         under the government's initiative for procurement capacity building.

10.      Procurement Plan: The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementationwhich providesthe basis for the procurement methods. This planhas been
agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team and i s attachedbelow. The Procurement Plan
will be updatedinagreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual
project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

11.      Frequency of Procurement Supervision: Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be
carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of the MUDHhas recommended two
supervision missions per year to visit the field to cany out post review o fprocurement actions.




                                                  57

                        Attachment 1:Detailsof the ProcurementArrangement
                            GoodsandWorks andnonconsultingservices.


1             2                 3       4         5        6         7         8         9

Ref      Contract          Estimated   Proc.    P-Q    Domestic    Review    Expected Comment
       (Description)          cost    Method           Preference  byBank     Bid-        S
No.                           US$                       (yestno)   (Prior t  Opening
                                                                    Post)     Date

    WORKS
    Upgrading network      3,000,000   NCB      No        Yes        Yes      Oct 05
    infrastructure
    batch l(6)
    Upgradingnetwork       3,000,000   NCB      No        Yes        Yes      Feb06
    infrastructure batch
    2(6)
    Upgrading stand         350,000     CC      No        Yes        no       Oct 05
    alone facilities
    batch3(7)
    Upgrading stand         350,000     CC      No        Yes        no       Feb 06
    alone facilities
    batch4(7)
    Trunk & social          1,600,000  NCB      No        Yes        Yes      Oct 05
    priority
    infrastructure(4)
    Upgrading network       4,875,000  NCB      N o       Yes        Yes      Nov 06
    infrastructure
    batch l(10)
    Upgrading network       4,875,000  NCB      No        Yes        Yes      Jan07
    infrastructurebatch
    2(10)
    Upgrading stand         525,000     CC      No        Yes        no       Nov 06
    alone facilities
    batch3(12)
    Upgrading stand         525,000     CC      No        Yes        no       Jan 07
    alone facilities
    batch4(12)
    Trunk and social        5,088,000  NCB      No        Yes        Yes     Nov 06
    priority infrastruc.
    (13)
    Constructionof          7,000,000                                                 100%
    New Roads(1)                                                                      Cofinan
    Reconstructionof        5,000,000                                                 100%
    Roads(1)                                                                          Cofinan
    Repairand overlay       1,700,000                                                 100%
    ofroads(2)                                                                        Cofinan
    PrimaryDrainage         3,750,000                                                 100%
    Channels                                                                          Cofinan
    Constructionand
    Repair(10)
    Secondary               1,875,000                                                 100%
    DrainageChannel                                                                   Cofinan
    Rehabilitation(5)
    Traffic                 675,000                                                   100%

                                         58

(a) Notes: ICB - International Competitive Bidding;NCB -National Competitive Bidding; CC
- Community Contracting; IS - InternationalShopping. The figure shown inthe brackets in
secondcolumn is proposednumber o fpackages for the works/goods

(b). The first contracts for goods and works, irrespective of value, for each year of the project
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All contracts for goods estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or more will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All works estimated to cost
$500,000 or more will be subject to prior review. Works contracts not exceeding US$500,000
may beprocuredby NCB.




                                              59

                                       Consulting Services.

   1                                           3                  4               5                6                 7

Ref.       Descriptionof                Estimated           Selection       Review           Expected          Comments
No.        Assignment                   cost                Method          by Bank          Proposals
                                                                            (Prior /          Submiss

           LandTenure                   376,000             QCBS                                               Co-financed
           Technical
           Assistance( 1)
           Planning, Design             411,000             QCBS            Yes              Nov 04            Co-financed
           andContract
           Management of
           Phase l(2)
           Planning, Design             616,500             QCBS            Yes               Nov 05           Co-financed
           andContract
           Managementof
           Phase2(3)
           TSU to MUDH/KM 2,640,000                         QCBS                              Nov04            Co-financed
                                                                           ~

           for ProjectSupport
           for 4 vears(1)
           Audits(1)                    100,000             CQ                                                 Co-financed
           Technical,                   100,000             ss                                                 IDA
           Environmental&
           Social
           Monitoring(2)
           Technical                    300,000             QCBS            Yes            I Novo4             Co-financed
           Assistance -Overall
           CapacityBuildingto
           KM(1)
           Preparationof                506,000             QCBS             Yes              Jan 05            Co-financed
           Structure Plans&
           proj. prep (4
           towns)(1)                                                                        I
           Preparationof                1,128,000           QCBS             Yes            1 Jan05             Co-financed
           Structure Plans inc
           proj. prep (Kabul)(1)
           SUB-TOTAL                    6,177,500

(a) Notes: QCBS- Quality and Cost Based Selection; CQ - Consultants Qualifications; SS - Single Source. The
figure shown in the brackets in second column is proposed number o f packages for the services. (b)
Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO        equivalent or more per contract will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. All selection of consultants through Single-source method will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Individual consultants contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. (c) Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the
provisions ofparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.




                                                  60

                             KABUL URB      I 1oc
                                               -             EN1    CTIONPROJECT
                                                                    PLAN
                                               No.           Proc. Est. Cos1     Total    id Docs    id Invitation.       Contract
                                                of     of    vlethc of each    cost of    Prep &     Submission,
                                               Pcks    Proc.   d      Pckge    Packages    Bank      Evaluation,
 escriptionof Package                                                 (US%)      (US$)     NOL       lankNOL &
                                                                                                      Award of
                                                                                                      Contract
                                                                                                                     Sign    itart Finish




                                                 6     cw    NCB     500,000   3,000,000  Aug 05       Dec 05       Dec 05   in06 July06
     dingnetwork infrastructure batch2           6     cw    NCB     500,000   3,000,000  Oct05         Apr 06      Apr 06    ay 06 Nov 06
     dingstand alonefacilities batch3            8     cw    cc       43,750   350,000    Aug 05        Dec 05      Dec 05   m 06 July 06
     ding stand alonefacilities batch4           8     cw    cc       43,750   350,000    Oct 05        Apr 06      Apr 06    ay 06 Nov 06
     &socialinfrastructurepriorities             4     cw NCB 400,000          1,600,000  Aug 05        Dec 05      Dec 05   in06 July 06


     dingnetworkinfrastructure batch 1          10     cw    NCB     487,750   4,875,000  Sept 06       Jan 07      Jan 07   ebO7 AugO7
     dingnetworkinfrastructurebatch2            10     cw    NCB     487,750   4,875,000  Dec 06        Mar 07      lune07   11y07 Jan 08
                                                12     cw    cc       43,750   525,000    Sept 06       Jan 07      Jan 07   ebO7 AugOi
                                                12     cw    cc       43,750   525,000    Dec 06        Mar 07      3ept 07  dy 07 Jan 08
                                                 16    cw    NCB      500,000  8,088,000   Sept 06      Jan 07      Jan 07   ebO7 Aug07


                                                 2     3oods   I S   131,000   262,000    June 06       Dec 06      Jan 07   eb 07 JulO7

                                               ---
                                                 1     Cons QCBS 376,000       376,000    Sept 04       Mar 05      Mar 05   ,pro5 AprOi




    ing, Design and Supervision of Phase 1       2     Cons QCBS 205,500       411,000    July 04       Dec 04      Jan 05   an05 DecOt
    ing, Design and Supervisionof Phase2         3     Cons QCBS 205,500        616,500   Sept 05        Jan 06     Jan 06   'eb06 FebOE
                                                 1     Cons QCBS 2,640,001     2,640,000   July 04      Dec 04      Jan 05   an05 JuneO:

                                                 2     3oods   I S    100,000   200,000   June 05       Dec 05      Jan 06   'eb 06 July O(
                                                 1     Cons   CQ      100,000   100,000    Dec 04       May 05      June05   uly 05 July 01
                                                 2     Cons    ss     50,000    100,000    Dec 04       May 05      June 05  uly 05 July 08
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                 0                              250,500


                                                 1     Cons QCB:     300,000    300,000    July 04       Dec 04      Jan 05  'an05 Dec06
                                               -
                                                 0
       tion of StructurePlans& proj.prep (4      1     Cons QCB:      506,000   506,000    Sep 04        Jan 05     Feb05    dar 05 Mar 06

                                                 1     Cons QCBr      282,000  1,128,000   Dec 04        Feb 05     Mar 05   ipr 05 Apr 06



                                                 1     cw    ICB 7,000,OO      7,000,000
   onsbuctionof Roads                            1     cw    ICB 5,000,OO      5,000,000
   air and overlay ofroads                       2     cw    ICB      850,OOC  1,700,000
                                                10     cw    NCB      375,OOC  3,750,000

       ary DrainageChannelRehabilitation         5     cw    VCB      375,OOC  1,875,000
                                               - 3     cw    NCB      225,OOC   675,000

                                               -125                            2,000,000
Notesto Table:
1. TSU is Technical SupportUnit to the PMUlocatedinthe MUDH-alsoprovidesproject support to Project SupportTeam (Pin Kabul Municipality.
2. CW -Civil Works; Cons- Consultants;ICB - InternationalCompetitiveBidding; NCB-National CompetitiveBidding; CC -Community



                                                            61

        Appendix 10: FinancialManagement,DisbursementandAudit Arrangements
                               KabulUrbanReconstructionProject
CountryIssues

1.        The World Bankhasgained significantexperience andunderstanding o fthe financial
managementissues inAfghanistan from implementing severalprojects over the past 18 months.
The overall assessmentis that althoughthe country's financial management system is notyet
fully functional, especially to managedonor projects, appropriate general andproject-specific
mitigation measures are beingtaken for this project. These steps help to ensure fiduciary
financial accountabilityfor project funds.

2.        Inanefforttostrengthenkeyinstitutions, theWorldBankisfinancingaFinancial
Management Agent to assist the Ministryo f Finance, an Audit Agent to assist the Control and
Audit Office, andaProcurement Agent to assist inProcurement-relatedactivities. USAIDandthe
IndianAid Assistance Programs are also financing a team o f consultants and advisors to assist the
DaAfghanistan Bank inlocal as well as foreign currency operations.

StrengthsandWeaknessesofthe Project

Strengths

3.        Through the engagement o fthe FinancialManagement Agent, the Govemment i s now in
apositionto ensureproper accounting for localpayments. Inaddition it has also put inplace
certain additional mechanisms such as the: (i)Special Disbursement Unit (SDU)under the
Treasury for disbursements and operation ofthe Afghanistan Management Information System
(AFMIS),(ii)    DevelopmentBudget and ExtemalRelations (DBER)Unitunder the Budget for
overall management and reporting o f all donor projects, and (iii)   Cash Management Unit to
undertake accounting for all income and manage cashresourcesunder the Treasury Department
of the Ministryo f Finance .

4.        Theproposed project-specific measuresinclude the engagementof a Financial
Management Specialist as part o fthe Technical Support Unit(TSU) assisting the nationally
staffedProject Management Unit (PMU) within MUDH.This will be an important step
considering the project involves a number of agencies and consultants and it i s important that
there i s a designatedperson to ensureproper FMarrangements for these agencies. The other
measure i s the mobilization o f a Consultant Chief FinancialOfficer (CCFO), retainedunder the
ARTF-financed StrengtheningFinancial Capacity project, to support budgeting and financial
managementof the Ministryas a whole. The CCFO will work closely with the Govemment-
appointed Chief FinancialOfficerDinance Manager inthe Ministryto help strengthen its capacity
to manage itsreconstructioddevelopment program, including donor-financed projects. The
PMUwith assistance from the TSUwill develop a Project Implementation Manual with a
section on `Funds Flow andFinancialManagement' which covers procedures as well as internal
controls o f various aspects o f the overall flow of funds, the funds transfer mechanism,
disbursementto communities, and fundmanagementat the community level. Thiswill also
includethe responsibilities o f PD & C Consultants with respect to compliance with transparency
rules for project expenditures. The projecthas a specific component (Part D) for undertakmg
studies and implementationfor enhancing Financial Management systems o f KabulMunicipality.
The study couldform a basis for further reformsinother municipalities.




                                                   62

Weaknesses

5.       Fromthe perspective o f financial management, the main weakness inthe design of the
project i s non-involvemento f FMcapacities at the MUDH level. One reason is that FMsystems
within MUDHare still not gearedfor managing foreign grants and dealingwith donor agencies.
However to address this weakness, it i s important to involve MUDHstaff inthis project at
multiplelevels, including the PMU.This will help in improving capacity inthe lineministry.
Therefore it will be important that before the project becomes effective, MUDHnominateFM
staffwho will act as part o fthe PMU. The unit will also develop a Job Responsibilities Chart for
these FMstaff with a view to providing them with adequate exposure to complex donor-financed
project issues. This exposure will enable them to handle increasedFMresponsibilitieso f donor
projects inthe future.

6.       Conclusion-the FMarrangements, including the systems, processes, procedures, and
staffing are adequateto support this project subject to implementationof the items listed inthe
                                             -
actionplanprior to negotiations.

Co-financing

7.       At the Govemment's request, the projecthasbeendesignedfor approximately 50 percent
co-financing by the government underthe Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund(ARTF) to
capitalize on IDA'Sappraisal andproject implementationreview capacity. The co-financing
element i s structured around Component C, D,EandF. The Ministryof Finance has tentatively
identifiedUS$26.07 million for thispurpose.

Retroactive Financing

8.        No retroactive fundingi s envisagedunder the project.

Systems

9.        Theproject will rely on government systems supplementedbyproject specific
arrangementsto recordproject financial transactions inan electronic format usingsimple
spreadsheet andor database applications. Such recordingo f data shouldenable the PMUin
MUDHassistedbythe TSUto retrievefinancial informationfor producingthe Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR) informats to be agreedwith the World Bank. These systems are
considered adequate to support the financial managementrequirements o f this project.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

 10.      Accounting Office o f MUDH,which is supervisedby Administration Department
prepares supporting documents for expenditures, payment orders(Form M16), receives approval
 fi-omController (pre-payment audit agent of MOFinMUDH)and final approval o fMinister ( or
 one o fhisdeputies or any highrank officer incase of unavailabilityof Minster and hisDeputies,
 and designatedby the Minister), and submits to the Treasury Department inMOFwhich inturn
 issues a check payable to the cash trustee by DAB after verification of supportingdocuments and
 approvals on the form. CashTrustee, receives the money from the bank, and disburses the monies
 to the intendedpayees. Currentpractice inMUDHis governmental recordingo ftransactions
basedon a chart of accounts, usinga single entry, manually maintained, cashbasis o f accounting.
 The accounting department enters these transactions inan expenditures book (Form M20), and
prepares a monthly expenditures report on form M220. MUDHreceives its operational budget

                                                 63

allotments on quarterly basis from MOF. MUDHhas two major category of expenditures:
payrolls andprocurements, mainly consumables.

11.      The project will follow standardAfghan government financial managementpolicies and
procedures, including usingthe Chart of Accounts developed by the Financial Management
Agent to recordproject expenditures. Ultimately the SDUwill beresponsible for accounting for
all expenditures and receipts inthe Government's accounting system.

12.      The MUDH's Project Management Unitwithassistancefrom the TSUwill be
responsible for coordinationwith the SDU.It will also beresponsible for coordinatingFM
activities of implementingagencies with the SDU. Considering that there will be several
agenciesand consulting organizations involved it i s important that the PMU's responsibilities,
functions, and necessaryprocedures are developed and documented ina briefset of financial
managementGuidelines as part o fthe Project ImplementationManual. These Guidelines are
expected to be sufficient to cover various aspects of project financial managementwhich the
PMU, assistedbythe TSU, will handle. The Guidelineswill lay down clear instructions onhow
different agencieswill ensure that necessaryfiduciary controls are inplace regarding
expenditures incurredby them. Iti s expected that the Guidelines will be ready within 3 months o f
the project becoming effective. The Guidelines will needto be authorized by the MOF
considering it has the overall responsibility for fiduciary compliance and also approved by IDA.
The CCFO, CFOEinance Manager, andthe FinancialManagement Specialist ofthe TSUwill
assistthe P M UinMUDHto recordproject financial transactions inan electronic format using
simple spreadsheetand/or database applications. Suchrecordingo fdata shouldenablethe PMU
inMUDHassistedbythe TSU toretrievefinancial information for producingtheFinancial
Monitoring Reports (FMR) informats to be agreedwith the World Bank.

13.      Annual project accounts will be consolidated centrally inthe Treasury Department,
supportedby the Financial Management Agent. Consolidated project financial statementswill be
prepared for all sources and uses of funds.

Reportingand Monitoring

14.      For other Bank projects Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) are prepared centrally in
the SDU and consolidated for the donors by DBER.These FMRs do not provide the necessary
informationrelating to component-wise expenditure as well as correct category-wise breakdowns
as this detailed knowledge lies with the implementing agencies. Inthis project, FMRswill be
produced by the PMU, assistedby the TSU, which will have adequate data, staff, and systems.

15.      Quarterly FinancialMonitoring Reports will be produced by the P M U assistedbythe
TSUshowing: (i) anduses of funds bydisbursement category and project component; (ii)
                   sources
physicalprogress; and (iii) ofprocurement activities. The FMRformat will be agreedto at
                            status
or before project negotiations. FMRs will be submitted to the DBER for consolidationand
submission to IDAwithin 45 days o fthe end o f each quarter. Annual project accounts will be
consolidated centrally inthe Treasury Department supported by the FinancialManagement
Agent. Consolidatedproject financial statements will beprepared for all sources anduses of
funds.A monthly reconciliationprocess willbe undertakenbythe PMUassistedbythe TSU
address variations between FMRsand annual financial statements.

16.      Formats will need to be designedfor reporting on Statement o f Expenditures, Advances
on CommunityProject Funding, and subsequent payment requests. Inaddition, formats will need
to be developed for physicalprogress reportingon the process and outputs of community projects



                                                  64

for boththe P M U(assistedby the TSU) and PD&C Consultants. These formats will form a
integralpart o f the Project ImplementationManual.

Staffingand Training

17.      SDUinMOF, supportedbythe FinancialAgent staff, will undertakethe main
responsibility o fpreparingwithdrawal applications, tahng steps to transfedmake payments,
undertake accounting, and beresponsible for preparingfinancial statementsand SOEs to be
audited bythe Control and Audit Office (CAO supported by the Audit Agent). To strengthen the
staffing capacity o f SDU, 3 Afghan Nationals, with economic degrees and with computer and
Englishspeaking shlls, havebeenputinplace. A document entitled `Documentation Guidelines'
i s available at the SDUto facilitate this process and also to be used for training of fresh
appointees. It i s expectedthat all payment requests willbe made accordingly. The SDUwith
support from FinancialManagement Agent shouldbringto the notice o f all the implementing
agencies likely to sendpayment requests about these guidelines and, ifrequired, provide them
with necessarytraining and orientation.

 18.     As the MUDHdoesnot have adequatecapacity for financial management, ithasbeen
agreedthat a FinancialManagement Specialist as part of the Technical Support Unit(TSU)
assisting the nationally staffed ProjectManagement Unit (PMU) withinMUHDalong with full-
time CCFO financed under the ARTF funding and counterpart manager and staff will be inplace
to oversee financial managementaspects of the project.

 19.     To facilitate SDUcoordinationwith MUDH,the Financial Management Specialist o f the
TSUwill beincludedinany arrangementsfor project implementation. The FMS will be
responsible for coordinating among the different implementationagencies. SDUwill be
responsible for providingnecessaryorientatiodtraining. The FMS will work closely with the staff
inthe PMU, PD&C Consultants, SDU, DBER,andtheWorldBank.

Audit Arrangements

 20.      The accountsof the project will be auditedby the Auditor General, withthe support of
 the Audit Agent, withterms o freference satisfactory to the Association. The audit of the project
 accountswill include an assessment of the : (a) adequacyo f the accounting and internal control
 systems; (b) ability to maintainadequate documentation for transactions; and (c) eligibility of
 incurred expenditures for Association financing. The audited annual project financial statements
 will be submitted within 6 monthso fthe close o f fiscal year. All agenciesinvolved in
 implementationand holding records o f expenditures will needto retain these records as per the
 retentionrequirements inthe Credit Agreement.

 21.      The following audit reports will bemonitoredinthe Audit Reports Compliance System
 (ARCS):

 ResponsibleAgency                         Audit                      Auditors                Date
MOF, supportedby Grant              Financial Statements          Auditor General        Sep 22
   Management Unit

 FundsFlow

 22.      All componentswillbe fundedeither through direct payment mode or throughpayment
 from a Special Account(SA). This special account will be opened and maintainedinDa
 Afghanistan Bank or a commercial bank situated inKabul with terms and conditions acceptable

                                                  65

to the association. The Authorized Allocation ofthe Special Account will not exceed $2
million. The SA, inkeepingwith current practices for other projects inAfghanistan, will be
operatedby the Special DisbursementUnit(SDU) inthe Treasury Department of Ministryo f
Finance. Requests for payments out of SA funds will be made to the SDUbythe MUDH.In
addition to payments out of SA funds, MUDHcould also request the SDUto make direct
payments to contractors and consultants, and special commitments for contracts coveredby
letters of credit. Such requests will follow the World Bankprocedures. The SA will be funded
initially basedon a payment Application request and subsequentrequestApplications for
replenishment to the Special Account will be submittedinline with arrangementsspecified in
Disbursementarrangementsbelow

23.      Payments will bemade on the basis of approved contracts entered into byMUDHwith
Consultants, Contractors, NGOs, and Communities.

Risks

24.      Theproject will be implementedthrough severalimplementingagenciesincluding
certain consultingorganizations. One o f the mainproject risks is coordinationamong these
differentagenciesand organizations to ensureproper fiduciary control over expenditures andto
receive accurateand timely reports. This risk will be mitigatedby several factors: i)appointment
o f an MUDHFMS inthe Technical Support Unit providing assistance to PMU, ii)preparation of
financial managementguidelines as part of Project ImplementationManual, iii)and nomination
o f a person from their respective organizations who will be directly responsible for coordinating
withthe PMU. Ifcertainforms andprocedures are found to be impractical andrequire
amendment, these will bereviewed duringthe periodic workshops and the requiredrevisions of
the Implementation Manual will beundertaken

25.       With the support of internationaltechnical assistance on operations o f SWIFT and
Letters of Credit the performance o f Da Afghanistan Bank has improved significantly. Also to
mitigate the risk of payment delays, the project has the optionto locate the SA inany
commercial bank inKabul.

26.       Within KabulMunicipality and MUDH,the lack of FMexpertise i s still a matter of
concern. It i s expectedthat with appointment o f anFMSpecialist within MUDH,along with the
CCFO(who i s already inplace) and CFO to coordinate with these ministries, andnomination of
FMstaffbythe KabulMunicipality, these risks will beaddressed to alarge extent.

27.       With the above risks taken into consideration ,the project appearsto be highrisk,
however ifthe above mitigating measures are taken the FMrisk will be reducedto mediumThis
riskratingi s predicated on the FM, Audit, and Procurement Agents being inplaceto ensure
financial accountability for project funds.




                                                  66

DisbursementArrangements

                                    DisbursementSchedule




                                               Amount ofthe
                    Expenditure              CreditAllocations       Financing
                    Category                       (US$m)           Percentage
                    Works                   I         24.188     I       100%      I
                    Goods                              0.462             100%
                    Consultants Services               0.100             100%
                    Incremental                        0.250             100%
                    OperatingExpenses
                    Total                              25.00            100%

28.     Financing Percentage. MOF will submit withdrawal applications based on the financing
percentages specified in the Development Credit Agreement. The Bank will finance 100% o f
project expenditures, including taxes embedded inproject expenditures

29.     Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA Grant Credit will be transaction-
based (replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special
Commitments) with full documentation or against statements o f expenditures as appropriate.

30.     Useof statements of expenditures (SOEs). SOE thresholds are applicable for
procurement made. Disbursements will be made on the basis o f SOEs for all contracts for sub-
projects less than US$500,000 under Part A o f the Project; goods less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent; consultants' services for firms less than US$lOO,OOO; individual consultant less than
US$50,000 equivalent; and all training, audits, and incrementaloperating costs.

31.     Special Account. A special account will be opened and maintainedinD a Afghanistan
Bank or a commercialbank situated inKabul with terms and conditions acceptable to the
association and will be operated inaccordance with the Association's operational policies . The
Authorized Allocation o f the Special Account will not exceed US$2 million.


                                                  67

32.      Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account will be
submitted: (i) monthly, regardless of amount, or (ii) the Special Account balance is
                                                     when
reducedby40% ofthe Authorized Allocation, whichever comes first. The minimumapplication
size for withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct payment, or for applications for
Special Commitments i s 20% ofthe Authorized Allocation of the Special Account. Payments for
community projects will be madebasedon contracts entered into by MUDHand will follow the
SOEmechanism above, supported by applicationformats to be developed as part of Project
ImplementationManual.

FinancialCovenants

33.      MOFMUDHwill ensurethat a CCFO and government CFO is available on a full-time
basis and throughout the entire project implementationperiod, for overseeing financial
management and disbursementso fthe project.

34.      Submit to the IDAaudited annual financial statementsofthe project, no later than six
months after the endof the fiscal year, i.e. by 22 September.

35.      Produce FinancialMonitoring Reports and submit to the IDAno later than 45 days
following the end o fthe reportingquarter.

                                             ActionPlan

                  Action                     ResponsiblePerson               TargetDate
    FinancialMonitoring Reports           IDA/MUDWSDU               Duringnegotiations
    (FMR) formats confirmed.
    Set up Project Management Unit, MUDH                            December 31 2004
    including appointment o f
    counterpart staff for financial
    management.
    Engagethe services of a              1MUDH                      December 31,2004
    coisultingfirmto form a
    Technical Support Unitto the
    PMU
    PMUto prepare a Project               MUDWPMU                   December 31 2004
    ImplementationManual,
    including a set of financial
     guidelines andjob
    responsibilities of the financial
     management person(s)
     nominated by MUDHalong with
    relevant forms and procedures
     for disbursements. reDorting




                                                 68

               Appendix 11:Environmentand SocialManagementFramework
                             KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

Background

1.      Withanestimatedpopulationof around 25 million, Afghanistan is among the poorest
countries inthe world. The urbaninfrastructure o f Afghanistan was severely damagedinthe past
two decades of conflict. Neglect and even deliberate targeting o f vital facilities that keep modem
cities healthy and prosperous have resulted ina variety ofpublic healthproblems ina number o f
urbancentersinthe country. These problems are further compounded by the increasing numbers
of people who are moving into urbanareas to escape rural hardships insecurity arising from
degradedenvironments and loss o f livelihood as well as retumo frefugees insubstantial numbers
(nearly 3.5 millionAfghans are estimated to bereturning by the endof 2003). There i s a
tremendous shortage of housing. The proposed Afghanistan Reconstruction Project with funding
assistance from the World Bank seeks to provide much-needed support inrehabilitating and
improving services inKabul and provincial towns ofAfghanistan.

ProjectObjective

2.      The mainobjective o fthe Kabul UrbanReconstruction Project i s to improve urban
managementand the delivery o f urban services inKabul. This will be achieved by supporting the
integration of selectedneighborhoods into the urban fabric of the capital city by carrying out
reconstruction and rehabilitation o f urban services and enhancing the managerial capacity of the
Ministry of UrbanDevelopment and Housing and the Kabul Municipality. The project will also
lay the groundwork for a follow-up project aimedat city-wide infrastructure reconstruction and
service delivery. The project will also support improvements inwater supply andprimary road
networks inselectedsecondarytowns.

ProjectDescription

3.       Inpursuitofthe above objective, the proposed Creditwill finance a series ofinvestments
incriticalinfrastructure anda set ofinstitutionaldevelopment activitiesdesignedto improvethe
managementcapacity o fthe Ministryo f UrbanDevelopment and Housing and the Kabul
Municipality

Potentialimpactsofvarious components

4.       Activities envisaged under the project should not entail significant and negative
environmental and social impacts, provided they are designed and implementedwith due
consideration of environmental and social issues. Construction activities may cause limited,
temporary, and localizednegative impacts that canbe mitigatedthrough the implementationof an
appropriate social and environmentalmanagement plan. Most infrastructure development
envisagedunder KURP should contributeto improving environmental and social conditions in
Kabul. Capacity buildingo fthe ministryand o f KabulMunicipality, which will also include
environmental and social management, are likely to have a positive impact on the environment.
The proposedpreparation o f a revisedstructure plan for Kabul and feasibility studies will include
detailed environmental and social assessments so that environmental and social concerns can be
addressedinboththe design and implementation o f future large scale projects.




                                                  69

5.        Adverse impacts may arise due to depletion or degradation ofnaturalresources such as
stone, earth, water etc. used for housing and urbaninfrastructure construction and ifproper
environmentalmanagementi s not carried out at design, construction and operation stages. To
limitthe extent ofthese risks, the Frameworkprovidesguidelines andcodesofpractice for and
environmentalmitigation measuresto be incorporated inthe design, contracting and monitoring
o f investments, along with an implementationstructure assigningresponsibilities to implementing
agencies and their consultants, and acapacity buildingprogram for social and environmental
management.

Purposeofthe EnvironmentalandSocialManagementFramework

6.         Itis acknowledged that currently social andenvironmental managementinAfghanistan is
sufferingfrom critical capacity constraints. Since there i s potential for adverse impacts, albeit
limited,onthe environment dueto the proposed activitiesunderthe KabulUrbanReconstruction
Project, their mitigation and managementi s key to wholesome rehabilitation and development o f
neighborhoods. Hence, keepinginview the existing social and environmental management
capacity, as well as the flexibility requiredwith investments still to be finalized, a framework
approach i s adopted for K W . It allows the early identification ofpotential adverseimpacts,
without the requirementofrigorous analysis through quantification, and also provides broad
guidance for their effective mitigation. Consistent with existingnational legislation, the objective
of the Frameworkis to helpensure that activities underthe project will:


     0     Protect human health;

     0     Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;

     0     Prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either individual subprojects or their
           cumulative effects;

     0     Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and,

     0     Ensurecompliance withWorldBank safeguardpolicies.

GeneralPrinciples

7.         Recognizingthe emergency nature of proposedreconstructionoperations, and the related
need for providing assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence inmanaging
potential environmental and social risks, this Framework is basedon the following principles:

0    Theproposed operations will support multiplesubprojects, the detaileddesigns ofwhichmay
     notbe known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application o f the World Bank's safeguard
     policies, the Frameworkprovides guidance on the approach to be taken during
     implementationfor the selection and design o f subprojects, and the planning of mitigation
     measures;

0    Allproposed investments will be screenedto ensurethat the environmentaland social risks
      canbe adequately addressedthroughthe application of standardized guidelines;

0    Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintainregional balance, and equity
     between genders, and ethnic andreligious groups, consideringvariations inpopulation
      density. Employment opportunities withinthe projectswillbe available on an equal basisto
      all, on the basis ofprofessional competence, irrespective o f gender, or ethnic or religious
      group. Inall projects whichrequire consultations with local communities or beneficiaries,



                                                   70

    gender-separatedconsultations will be conducted to elicit the views ofthe female population,
    along with that of the malepopulation; and,

    Consultationand disclosure requirements will be simplifiedto meet the special needs of these
    operations. Pnor to approval by the World BankBoard, this Environmentaland Social
    Safeguards Frameworkwill be disclosed inAfghanistan inDariand Pashto, and inthe World
    Bank Infoshop.

Safeguard Screening

8.      Although no significant environmental impacts are expected, some proposed activities
willneedto be carefully screenedfor potential impacts, including: (i)    solidwaste management,
particularly ifit involves disposal; (ii)
                                       domestic liquidwaste disposal, and septic tank cleaning;
(iii)
    reconstruction of sewers and drains; (iv) low cost water treatment facilities and water
distributionnetwork repairs and extensions inKabul and inprovincial cities; and (v) construction
impacts for accessroads.

9.      Additionally, the selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation o f subprojects
will be consistent withthe following guidelines, available at the WorldBankInfoshop or at the
World Bank Office, Kabul:

        A negative list of characteristics that will make a proposed investment ineligible for
        support;
        Guidelines for landand asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation;

        Procedures for the protection o f cultural property, including the chance discovery o f
        archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites;

        Generic codes of practices for environmental management at design, construction and
        operation stages;

        Formats for limited environmental assessment (LEA) and generic Terms o f Reference for
        a full EnvironmentalImpact Assessment (EIA);

        Generic Terms of Reference for a full Social Assessment;

        The requirement that confirmation is received through the Regional Mine Action Center
        that areas to be accessed during reconstruction and rehabilitation activities have been
        demined;

Mitigation measures-Design

 10.     Sound design will, at least diminish, ifnot eliminate, most of the potential adverse
impacts ofproject activities. Good Engineeringdesign will, inmost cases, have a positive impact
on the environmental conditions inthe project area.

 11.    As a matter ofprinciple, nonewborewells shouldbe drilledinurban areas as it will
further deteriorate the quantity and quality o f groundwater. It i s however recognized that piped
water will notbe madeavailable to all urbanresidents for many more years, and there i s an
urgentneedto ensureaccessto safe water for dnnkingpurposes at least.Where water cannot be
supplied through the network, the project will assess feasible alternative/temporary options on a
case-to-casebasis. If  itisdeterminedthat anewborewellisthe only possible alternative, a
through environmental assessment will be carried out, including water quality tests and analysis


                                                   71

o f impact on aquifers and on other users of the resource. Inall cases, adequatewater quality
monitoring arrangementswill be putinplace.

12.     Adverse impacts on local ecology will be consideredon a case-by-casebasis. A pre-
design walk-through of the design team, with specialist environmental input, through the project
area will be a highlydesirable exercise. Otherwise, local knowledgefrom other stakeholders such
as NGOs' and local residents may betapped to ascertainthat the project doesnot cause
significant damage to any important environmental resources.

13.     Co-ordination with the line departments, other stakeholders such as NGOsmust beginin
the design phaseitself. This will ensurethat the project i s ready for mitigating impacts such as
those related to Resettlement and Health service support, ifrequired. One aspectwhich deserves
attention i s the drafting o f the Contract documents where social and environmentalmitigation
shouldbebuilt into the project agreements.

Mitigationmeasures-Construction

14.     The emphasisofthe EnvironmentalManagement Plan(EMP) is onconstructionstage
impacts since the operation stage impacts, as has already been statedbefore, canbe minimized,
mitigated or compensatedby managing the rehabilitatedinfrastructure inline withproject design
parameters.Inorder to minimize the potential adverseimpacts of construction, standardbidding
documentswill have the followingenvironmental precautionary clauses:

     0  The natural landscape should be preserved to the extent possible by conducting
        operations in a manners that will prevent unnecessary destruction or scarring o f natural
        surroundings. Except where requiredfor permanent works, quarries, borrow pits, staging
        and processing areas, dumps, and camps, all trees, saplings, and shrubbery should be
        protected from unnecessary damage by project related activities. After unavoidable
        damage and to restore quasi-original conditions were appropriate;

     0   Contractor's operations should be so performed as to prevent accidental spillage of
         contaminants, debris, or other pollutants, especially into streams or underground water
        resources. Such pollutants include untreated sewage and sanitary waste, tailings,
        petroleumproducts, chemical, biocides, mineral salts, and thermalpollution.

     0  Wastewater, including those from aggregate processing and concrete batching, must not
         enter streams without settlingponds, grade Ifilters, or other process, so as not to impair
         water quality or harmaquatic life;

     0   The contractor should ensure proper disposal of waste materials and rubbish.Ifdisposal
        by burial or fire, it should not cause negative impact to either the air, soil nor ground
         water supplies;

     0   The contractor should minimize air and water pollution emissions. Dust from the
         handling or transporting o f aggregates, cement, etc., should be minimized by sprinkling
         or other methods. Materials, brush or trees should only be burned when the owners
        permits, under favorable weather conditions;

     0   The contractor's facilities, such as warehouse, labor camps, and storage areas, should be
         planned in advance to decide what the area will look like upon completion of
         construction. These facilities should be located so as to preserve the natural environment
         (such as trees and other vegetation) to the maximum extent possible.




                                                  72

     0  After project construction, camps and building should either serve as permanent
        residences and form future communities, if such use can be foreseen and approved, or be
        tom down and the area restored to its quasi-original condition in order to avoid
        deteriorationinto shanty towns.

     0  Borrow pits should be landscaped and planted accordingly to an ecological design to
        provide some substitute area for lost naturallandscapesand habitats.

Social Safeguards

15.     The components of the project will benefit households ingeneralby providing increased
level of services includingwater, sanitation and transport. While women and childrenare not
specifically targeted, they will be the primary beneficiaries of the interventions inwater and
sanitation interms of healthgains (the under-5 mortality rate i s currently 25%) andreduced
workload inwater collection. The realizationof these benefits will be ensuredthroughthe
provision o fhealtheducation as part o fthe water and sanitation interventions.

16.     No landacquisitionis anticipated since the project mostly involvesrehabilitation of
existingurban structures and construction inexistingmunicipal right-of-ways (for roads and
water supply). However there are three proposed investment components where there couldbe
some potential for land acquisition: urban upgrading, water supply, and roads. Inthe event that
any minor areas o f landwill be neededfor aproject (e.g. realignmento f aroad), such land could
only be obtained through either private voluntary donations, compensation payments for assets
acquired by the local community, or available government land. Privatevoluntary donations will
be documented as requiredby the Framework, as will compensationpayments madeby the
community. A one page LandAcquisition Assessment Data sheet includes basic land acquisition
screening information including, quality of landrequired, location, use of land andnumber of
people potentially affected by involuntary resettlement. For government land, documentation will
beneededthat the landis free of encroachments, squatters or other encumbrances, andhasbeen
transferred for the project by the authorities.

 17.    No activities will be supportedthat require involuntary landacquisition or the acquisition
o f landrequiringthe resettlement or compensation ofmore than 200 people. Consequently, no
Resettlement Action Planwill berequiredfor the proposed project.

 18.     The identification of areas for upgradingwill be basedupon transparent and clearly
defined selection criteria basedupontechnical eligibility and vulnerability o fthe population to
minimize risk of ethnic inequity.

Participation Framework

 19.     Participationi s a processthrough which stakeholders influence and share control over
development initiatives and the decisions andresourceswhich affect them. This processwill be
carried out throughthe different stages ofproposedproject i.e. selection of investments, planning,
implementationand monitoring for which a strategy will be prepared (by the consultants
implementingthe project components, notably urbanupgrading, as part of inceptionreports),
withthe following objectives:

a    Understand existing modes o f participation to improve the effectiveness o f stakeholder
     participation. Collaborate with govemment to identify appropriate stakeholders. Recognize
     customs, beliefs, attitudes and constraints relatedto participationare gender-specific and stem



                                                  73

    from the fact that men and women play different roles, have different needs, and face
    different constraints on a number of different levels.

0   Develop a strategy for involving stakeholders as participants and monitoring and evaluating
    participation and outcomes that involves both quantitative and qualitative tracking o f
    indicators over the life of the project which i s done with the direct involvement o f the
    communitieswhose participation is beingmonitored.

20.     Duringthe processo fconsultations withlocalcommunities, separate arrangementsshall
bemade to ensureparticipationbyand consultation with women, as they cannotbe expectedto
be covered through the general community consultations.

Responsibilitiesfor SafeguardScreeningandMitigation

21.     The overall responsibility ofproject oversight rests with the Ministryof Urban
Development and Housing (MUDH).A designated SafeguardsNodal Officer will be identified
withresponsibility for overseeing the implementationofthe Environmentaland Social
Safeguards Frameworkand Management Plan at the MUDH.InternationalConsultant firms will
be contracted for the implementationo fthe project investment components (urban upgrading,
water supply, androads), and will have primary responsibility as per the terms of their Contract to
ensure adequate social and environmental mitigation andmanagement duringdesign,
construction and operation, as shown below:


Project Component                  Responsibilitiesfor                    Responsibilitiesfor
                                   implementationofthe safeguards oversight/monitoring
                                   framework
Part A: Area Upgrading in Desigdimplementation Consultant MUDH                         and      Kabul
Kabul                              # 1 as per the terms of their Municipality (KM), with
                                   contractlToR                           assistance from Program
                                                                          Management Unit and TSU
PartB:Landtenure                   MUDH,AGCHO
regularization
PartC:Engineering and              NA                                     NA
Management Suppok
PartD:OverallCapacity
                    .~             NA
Buildingfor Kabul
Municipality
PartE:Structural Planningfor       DesignConsultant # 4, as per the       MUDHandKMwith
Kabuland future project            terms o f their contract/ToR           assistanceo f Project
preparation                                                               Management Unit and TSU
PartF:Repairs and                  Desigdimplementation Consultant        KM,with assistancefrom
reconstruction of major road       # 2, as per the terms o ftheir         ProjectManagement
and drains                         contractJToR                           Consultant

Capacity Building

22.     As part ofthe social and environmentalcapacity buildingthat will beprovided for
implementation ofIDA-financedoperations inAfghanistan, the SafeguardsFocal Officer and
relevant staffof MUDH,Kabul Municipality and implementingagencies/Consultants will receive
training inthe application o fthe Safeguard Framework. It i s proposedto prepare specific



                                                 74

materials, hold a workshop, and arrange site visits to other countries inthe region on similar
projects inprogress to provide hands-on training to the Ministryand implementing agency staff.
Specialist training modules maybe considered after an acceptablelevel of base knowledgehas
been established. The capacity buildingactivity will be implementedunder a separate Technical
Assistance programfor Social and Environmentalmanagement. Duringsupervision o f the
project, the World Bank will assessthe implementation of the Framework, and ifrequired, will
recommend additional strengthening.

ConsultationandDisclosure

23.      This Environmentaland Social SafeguardsFrameworkwas developed onthe basis ofan
overall Framework for World Bank-fundedreconstruction operations which was preparedin
consultation with the principal NGOs and development partners participating inreconstruction
activities inAfghanistan. Prior to approval o f the project by the World BankBoard, it will be
disclosed by IRAinbothDari and Pashto, as well as English, andit will also be made available at
the World Bank's Infoshop. It i s worth noting that IRA intendsto make all project documentation
publiclyavailable throughthe Afghan InformationManagement System(AIMS).

24.      Theproposedproject will support feasibility studies for future largeurbaninfrastructure
schemes, for which World Bank safeguardpolicies relating to consultation and disclosure will
apply, ifthey are financed by IDA. Inparticular, for environmental Category A and B
investments (as definedinWorld Bank Operational Policy 4.0 1, Environmental Assessment)
proposed for future operations, the implementingagencywill consult project-affectedgroups and
localnon-governmental organizations about the project's environmentaland social aspects, and
will take their views into account. The executing agencywill initiate suchconsultations as early
as possible, and for meaningfulconsultations, will provide relevant material ina timely manner
prior to consultation, ina form and languagethat are understandable and accessibleto the groups
being consulted.


25.      No activities classifiedunder Category A will be financed inthis project.




                                                 75

                             Appendix12: MonitoringandEvaluation
                               KabulUrbanReconstructionProject

1.      The diversity of the project components means that the monitoring system developed for
each of the components, will differ.

2.      Monitoring arrangementswill includeplans for intensive supervision byIDA to ensure
prompt solutions to implementationdifficulties. At a minimum, a full supervision missionis
neededquarterly with specialists visiting Afghanistan more frequently.Bi-annualreports
detailing progress inmeetingimplementationand development objectives (detailed inthe
procurement plan and inthis annex) will be prepared and submittedto IDA. An evaluation report
will alsobeprepared for the MidTermReview and at the close ofthe project.

3.      Responsibility for this reportingrests with the ProgramManagement Unit, assistedby the
Technical Support Unit.The results of the monitoring will be usedto analyze and improve project
management and to inform subsequentmanagement decisions. The MTREvaluationreport will
be usedto implement changesinthe project design, ifnecessary. It,together with the Final
EvaluationReport will assist inthe preparation o fthe follow on project to be prepared for FY 06.
Tables 1,3,4,5 and 6 summarize the indicators for eachproject component and component.
These will be elaborated by the respective implementationagencies.

4.      Monitoringand Evaluation for UrbanUpgradingand LandTenure Titling. The Urban
Upgrading and Landtenure components of the project will have the most fully developed M&E
system for the project. The systemwill provide information on outcomes and out puts. (See
Table 1:M&Efor UrbanUpgrading, and LandTenure).

5.      The datarequiredwill be collected through surveys, participatorymonitoringand also
throughproject monitoring o f outputs by the PD&C consultants. Datarequiredinclude, inyear
one, access to and use of services, actual and perceived security o f tenure. Inyear two, in
addition to the latter data, an attitude survey covering awarenessofreconstruction program also
measuring actual reconstruction will be required. This will be repeated inyear three.

6.      Inadditionto the monitoringonoutcomes, the ProgramManagement Unit,assistedby
the Technical Support Unit, will also monitor outputs. This will include an overall progress
report that examines the status of community mobilization, community consultation, and
provision o f services (see Table 2 ).




                                                  76

 'able 1: M& E Indicators for UrbanUpgrading, Land Tenure
 'roject          IExpected output\Intermediary        lOutcome/Impact             /Use of Results
 bjectives                          lindicators        lindicators                 IInformation

 opdation thou a package of servicesthat include:
 ,and Tenure        .TR Manuals        of procedures     Not monitored,             Low intermediary
 Legularization                       eldtested                                     indicators (I I)willflag
 LTR) Pilots                                                                        inappropriate
                                       o f cases for                                inadequately tested
                                      ach test                                      procedures

                                      roportion of
                                      ases for which
                                      rocedures
                                      ppropriate
                   Personnel          f o f persons     dot monitored               Low IIwill flag
                  trainedinLTR        ,ained                                        inadequate or
                                                                                    ineffective training
                                      roportion of
                                      .ainedpersons
                                      ompetent
                   Regularizedland roportion of        Not monitored                Low IIwill flag
                   tenure             :solved2'                                     inadequate community
                                      :solvable                                     engagement, costly or
                                      isputes          I                            complicatedprocedures
                                                                                    or lack o f interest
                                      roportion of
                                      orrected'
                                      orrectable
I                 I                   regularities
Urban              Community           o f              60% oftargeted              Low levels may flag
Upgrading:         UpgradingPlans tandpipeshouse households receive                 poor community
Water,                                old connections service levels at requiredsupport, lack o f
e1ectricity,                                            service levels, 40% of      political will, problems
sanitation,                                             targeted households         o f implementation,
drainage, access                                       report time saving in        conflict
ways                                                    water collection
                                       of street lights 30% ofneighborhood
                                                        residents report
                                                       positively on improved
                                                        perception of quality o f
                                                        life
                                       of improved      40% oftargeted
                                      ewage solutions households report
                                                        improved quality o f
                                                        sewage service




27Resolved or correctedmeans the problem has beensolved, the appropriate legal instrument issued and
the change formally registered.


                                                  77

/Project           IExpectedoutput[Intermediary IOutcomelImpact                   lUse of Results
 objectives                           indicators         indicators                Information
                                      # o fkms. o f
                                      drainage
                                      constructed or
                                      rehabilitated
                                      # o f kms. o fnew 60% o f targeted
                                      and/or             householdsreceive
                                      rehabilitated      service levels at required
                                      primary and        service levels
                                      secondary access

~                                     roads constructed




 7.      MonitoringandEvaluationfor Roads.The PMUassistedbythe TSU will receive from
 the Roads implementing agents information onroad construction and reconstruction to fulfill
 M&Erequirements. This will be reported inthe bi-annual report and progress, andwill also
 prepare a yearly report on the indicators, as outlined inTable 3: MonitoringIndicators for Roads.


  Objectives                       IntermediaryIndicators               OutcomeIndicators
  0   Improve road conditions       0  # o f kmo froads                 0    Decrease inaverage
      inKabul                          reconstructed                         pavement roughness


                                    0  # o fkmo froads
                                       constructed
                                    0  # o fkmo froads
                                       rehabilitated

 8.      OverallCapacity Buildingfor KabulMunicipality. The M& Easpects o fthe Overall
 Capacity Buildingfor Kabul Municipality will be the responsibility o f the PMU, assisted by the
 Technical Support Unit. The Financial Management Consultant Firmwill supply the required
 informationto the PMUand TSU. The PMUand TSU will report on bi-annual progress, and will
 also prepare a yearly report on the indicators as outlined inTable 4: Monitoring Indicators for FM
 inKabul.


    Results                            Results Indicators                 Use o f Results Information
    0   Kabul Municipalities has            Final accounts by the             Yr 2: Municipalities can
        improved capacity for               participating                     determine borrowing
        financial management                municipalities prepared           capacity for hrther service


                                                   78

                                        within 6 months of year      1   improvements
  0    ImprovedRevenue                  end
       Generation                    e  KMImprovesitsrevenue          0  Yr 2: KMcan shift some
                                        generation by 10%inone           infrastructure 0 &Mto its
                                        vear                              own budget

9.      StructurePlanandPreparationof FutureProject. The M& Easpects ofthe Structure
Planningand Preparation of Future Project component will bethe responsibility o f the PMU,
supported by the Technical Support Unit. The Structure Plan Consultant Firmwill supply the
requiredinformation to the P M U andTSU. The PMUand TSU will report onbi-annual progress,
and will also prepare ayearly report onthe indicators as outlined inTable 5: M& E for Structure
Plan and FutureProjectPreparation.

  'able 5: M&EIndicatorsfor S wcture PlanandFutureProje Preparation
   Results                           Results Indicators               Use of Results Information
   Structure Planfor Kabul           Structure Planfor Kabul          Structure Planfor Kabul
   MinistryofUrban                   Draft structure plan for Kabul   Yr 1-2: Plan can be usedas
   Development and Housing           and other targeted               basisfor proposals for urban
   (MUDH) andtargeted                municipalities completed         service improvements on a
   municipality has a medium                                          city wide scale
   term strategy for city-wide       InvestmentPlan for Kabul
   improvement o f services an       completed
   facilities participating
   municipalities                    Feasibility study for future
                                     project completed
   FuturePreparation                 FuturePreparation                FuturePreparation
   MUDHandrelevant                   Project proposals presentedto    Yr 2: Preparation offollow-up
   municipality has a clear idea     donors for knding                urbanproject(s)
   of mediumterm urban
   infrastructure investment
   proposals




                                                 79

Table 6. PERFORMANCEINDICATORS

                   Variable                   PerformanceIndicator              Source
                     PDO
   The objective of the Kabul Urban          Numbero f people in           Completion
   Recon&mction Project i s to provide       approximately 45 gozars who   Reports
   improved delivery o fbasic urban services receiveimprovedurban          Beneficiary
   invulnerablecommunities inKabul           servicesand enhanced          Surveys
   Municipality throughthe upgradingo f      security of landtenure.
   urban infrastructureand enhancing the     (Target: 250,000 people)
   managerial capacity o fMUDHand Kabul
   Municipality

   OUTPUTS
   Upgradedtertiary infrastructure ina       Number ofhectaresof urban ProgressReports
   comprehensive manner invulnerable         land, including bothformal
   settlements                               and informal settlements,
                                             subject to infrastructure
                                             improvements. (Target: 1.OOO

   Appropriate methodologies for providing   Quality o fmanuals of         Manuals
   enhancedsecurity o f tenure are piloted   procedures, skills developed  Legal instruments
   and institutionalcapacity is built        Numberof plotholders
                                             given enhanced security o f
                                             tenure. (Target: 5,000 plot
                                             holders)
   Improved financial managementwithin       Increasesinown revenue as     Audit Reports
   Kabul Municipality                        percento fbase (Target
                                             100%)                         Audit Reports
                                             Months after FY endrequired
                                             to produce
                                             Annual audit reports (Target:
                                             6 months)
   Forwardlooking physical development       Physicaldevelopment plans;    Plan and proposals
   plans for Kabul and 5 other towns and     project proposals (Target: 6
   proposed future urban project             plans; 1project proposal)
    Reconstructedrepairs primary roads and   Number ofkms new roads,       ProgressReports
    drains, improved-traffic managementin    reconstructedroads; number
    Kabul                                    o f kms repaireddrains
                                             (Target 160kms)




                                            80



