                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2512



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD 48810-CHA)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD$100 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

                       GUIYANG TRANSPORT PROJECT



                                  June 20, 2014




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   Currency = Renminbi (RMB)
                    Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)

           Appraisal                            Completion
   Effective May 14, 2007                 Effective December 31, 2013

   RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.1282                  RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.1640
   USD 1.00 = RMB 7.76                    USD 1.00 = RMB 6.0969

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 －December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT       =      annual average daily traffic
CPS        =      Country Partnership Strategy
EIA        =      Environment Impact Assessment
EIRR       =      Economic internal rate of return
EMP        =      Environment Management Plan
GDP        =      gross domestic product
GMCB       =      Guiyang Municipal Communications Bureau
GMDRC      =      Guiyang Municipal Development and Reform Commission
GMFB       =      Guiyang Municipal Financial Bureau
GMG        =      Guiyang Municipal Government
GMRD       =      Guiyang Municipal Road Division
GMUAB      =      Guiyang Municipal Urban Administration Bureau
GPMO       =      Guiyang Project Management Office
IA         =      implementing agency
ICB        =      international competitive bidding
ICR        =      Implementation Completion and Results
IP         =      Implementation Progress
IPDP       =      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
ISP        =      Implementation Status and Results
km         =      Kilometer
LIBOR      =      London inter-bank offered rate
MOF        =      Ministry of Finance
NCB        =      national competitive bidding
PAD        =      Project Appraisal Document
PCU        =      Passenger car unit
PDO        =      project’s development objectives
RAP        =      Resettlement Action Plan
RMB        =      Renminbi (Chinese currency)
SOE        =      state-owned enterprises
STC        =      short term consultant
TA         =      technical assistance
Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
Country Director:      Klaus Rohland, EACCF
Sector Managers:       Abhas Jha, EASIN
Project Team Leader:   Holly Krambeck, EASIN
ICR Team Leader:       Holly Krambeck, EASIN
                                           People’s Republic of China
                                           Guiyang Transport Project


Contents
 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
 E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... iii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
 H. Restructuring .............................................................................................................. v
 I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................... v
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learnt ......................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Development Objectives ................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Project Outputs .............................................................................................. 25
 Annex 3. Training Programs and Study Tours ............................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Project Costs, Financing, and Loan Disbursement ...................................... 27
 Annex 5. Summary of Project Contracts ...................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Status of Loan Covenants.............................................................................. 30
 Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
 Annex 8. Economic Analysis........................................................................................ 34
 Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
 Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 42
 Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 43

 MAP IBRD34472R
           IBRD35738R
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Guiyang Transport
Country:             China                        Project Name:
                                                                              Project
Project ID:          P093963                      L/C/TF Number(s):           IBRD48810-CHA
ICR Date:            05/10/2014                   ICR Type:                   Core ICR
                                                                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Borrower:
                                                                              OF CHINA
Original Total
                     USD 100.00 million           Disbursed Amount:           USD 100.00 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 100.00 million
Environmental Category: A – Full Assessment
Implementing Agencies: Guiyang Municipality
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised/Actual
    Process                Date                Process          Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/07/2006               Effectiveness:                          06/09/2008
                                                                                 06/21/2010
Appraisal:        01/29/–03/02/2007      Restructuring(s):                       02/27/2012
                                                                                 12/10/2012
                                                                                 09/13－09/17/2010
Approval:         01/08/2008             Mid-term Review:                        03/28－04/01/2011
                                                                                 09/26 – 09/30/2011
Sign:             03/18/2008             Closing:              12/31/2012        12/31/2013
Note: 1. The Bank had three project restructurings during implementation.
      2. The Bank’s midterm review was conducted in three supervision missions, which mainly focused
      on adjustment of the Rural Transport Component.

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory




                                                  i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:          Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                     Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                                    No                                          N/A
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                                    No                                          N/A
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                  80                89
General Transportation Sector                                       10                 8
Sub-National Government Administration                              10                 3

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                P               P
Access to urban services and housing                                  P               P
Rural services and infrastructure                                     P               P
Municipal governance and institution building                         S               S

E. Bank Staff
Positions                   At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Axel van Trotsenburg              James W. Adams
Country Director:           Klaus Rohland                     David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:             Abhas Jha                         Magdolna Lovei
Project Team Leader:        Holly Krambeck                    John C. Scales
ICR Team Leader:            Holly Krambeck
ICR Primary Author:         Chuntai Zhang


                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project’s development objective is to assist the Borrower to increase the access and mobility
of Guiyang Municipality’s transport users through priority infrastructure investments while
establishing more sustainable mechanisms for rural road maintenance, as well as enhancing
capacity for keeping municipal debt under control.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised

(a) PDO Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                   Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                    Values (from                       Achieved at
     Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                      approval                        Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                    documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1:       Travel times decreased on Airport expressway (minutes)
Value                                            Reduced to 84% of                  Reduced to 80% of
(quantitative or                  9                    baseline                           baseline
Qualitative)                                        (7.56 minutes)                     (7.2 minutes)
Date achieved                   2007                     2009                               2011
                    Achieved (125%): 1.8 minutes savings / 1.44 target savings = 125%
Comments (inc. %
achievement)
                    The target value was 9 minutes for the airport expressway. The actual travel time
                      on the airport expressway was 7.2 minutes in 2011, 80% of the baseline value.
Indicator 2:       Travel times decreased on G321 (minutes)
Value                                              Reduced to 82%
                                                                                        No change
(quantitative or                  7                   of baseline
                                                                                        (7 minutes)
Qualitative)                                        (5.74 minutes)
Date achieved                   2007                     2009                               2013
                    Not achieved
Comments (inc. %    During monitoring period in 2013, there were many investment projects in
achievement)          Longdongbao area. The large trucks slowed down the average travel time on
                      G321.
Indicator 3:       Traffic volumes increased on the Project corridor (PCU per day)
Value
(quantitative or                N/A                     52,350                            62,400
Qualitative)
Date achieved                    2007                     2010                                2010
                    Fully achieved (119%)
                    The target was the total traffic volume for both original airport expressway and
                      G321 in the case of ‘without Youxiao Road’.
Comments (inc. %    Youxiao Road was completed and opened to traffic in February 5, 2010. The
achievement)          actual corridor traffic (Youxiao Road, airport expressway, G321) was 62,400 PCU
                      in 2010, indicating that Youxiao Road was successful in generating additional
                      traffic than the baseline “without Youxiao Road” scenario.
                    PCU = passenger car unit
Indicator 4:       Percent reduction of minutes travel time on a 25% sample of project rural roads
Value                            100%                Reduced by 50%                      Reduced by 65%

                                                 iii
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   2007                     2009                               2013
Comments (inc. %
achievement)
                    Fully achieved (130%)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                 Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                  Values (from                          Achieved at
     Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                    approval                           Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                   documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1:       Number of villages connected by Project roads (no.)
Value
(quantitative or                  0                       241               67                  67
Qualitative)
Date achieved                  2007                      2012             2012               2013
                   • Fully achieved (100%)
Comments (inc. %   • During implementation, the number of rural roads was reduced from original 46 to
achievement)         11.
                   • In February 2012, the target value was formally revised to 67 villages.
Indicator 2:       Number of villages serviced by routes from Project rural bus stations (no.)
Value
(quantitative or                  0                       348              118                  118
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   2007                     2012             2012              2013
                  Fully achieved (100%)
Comments (inc. %  During implementation, the number of rural bus terminals was reduced from
achievement)          original 44 to 16.
                    In February 2012, the target value was formally revised to 118 villages.
Indicator 3:       Implementation of a new rural road maintenance system (%)
Value
(quantitative or                 0%                                       100%              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   2007                                      2011              2012
                  Fully achieved (100%)
Comments (inc. %
                  A computer-based Rural Road Maintenance Management Information System was
achievement)
                     developed in 2010－2012.
Indicator 4:       Implementation of a new debt management system (%)
Value
(quantitative or                 0%                                       100%              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   2007                                      2011              2011
Comments (inc. %    Fully achieved (100%)
achievement)        The TA on Government Debt Management was implemented in 2009－2011.




                                                  iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                    Actual
            Date ISR
No.                                 DO                        IP                Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
     1      08/05/2009          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   12.36
     2      12/11/2009          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   40.72
     3      09/10/2010          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   67.23
     4      11/03/2011          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            78.58
     5      03/20/2012          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            78.58
     6      11/22/2012          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            85.24
     7      03/12/2013          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            98.59
     8      11/02/2013          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           100.00

H. Restructuring
1.       A project restructuring was undertaken in June 2010, which reallocated the loan proceeds to
         meet the requirements of project financing.
2.       A project restructuring was undertaken in February 2012, which included scope changes for
         the Rural Transport Component; institutional change for implementing Batch-II of the Rural
         Transport Component; revision of Intermediate Oucome targets; and reallocation of loan
         proceeds.
3.       A Level Two Project Restructuring was approved in December 2012, which included
         extension of loan closing date by 12 months from December 31, 2012, to December 31,
         2013; reallocation of loan proceeds; and addition of a legal covenant in the Project
         Agreement.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                   v
1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal

Guiyang Municipality is the capital of Guizhou Province, an extremely poor province ranked the
lowest in terms of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita in China. The municipality is
located within a hilly and sometimes mountainous terrain with elevations ranging from 500 to
1,760 meters above sea level.

At appraisal, Guiyang Municipality encompassed three primarily rural counties (Xiuwen, Xifeng,
and Kaiyang); one county-level city (Qingzhen); four generally peri-urban districts (Wudang,
Baiyan, Huaxi, and Xiaohe), and the two districts (Nanming and Yunyan), that make up the urban
core of Guiyang City. The municipality had a total area of 8,034 square kilometers and a
population of approximately 3.4 million persons in 2007. The municipality’s regional context was
characterized by a poor hinterland, distance from major markets, and dependence on small local
markets. 1
Assisting lagging western provinces through, in part, the development of transportation
infrastructure, particularly rural areas, was a key priority of the 11th Five-Year Plan of the
Government of China (GoC) and, as such, the Government and the World Bank identified the
Guiyang Transport Project (the project) as a core project of the Bank’s lending program. The
project was also aligned with the Bank’s assistance strategy agreed with the GoC. The project
closely followed the specific strategies considered under the second pillar of the Bank’s Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2006-2010. 2 The second pillar—“reduce poverty, inequality and
social exclusion”—sought, among other objectives, to improve the competitiveness of the various
regions of China and the overall investment climate, as well as address the needs of
disadvantaged groups and underdeveloped regions through the financing of infrastructure in key
corridors, particularly those serving poorer regions and communities. These objectives were
expected to promote a more balanced urban-rural development, improve sustainable rural
livelihoods, and expand access to basic social and infrastructure services.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

The project’s development objective (PDO) was to assist the Borrower to increase the access and
mobility of Guiyang Municipality’s transport users through priority infrastructure investments,
while establishing more sustainable mechanisms for rural road maintenance, as well as enhancing
capacity for keeping municipal debt under control. Achievement of the PDO was to be assessed
through the measurement of outcome indicators, consisting of the reduction in travel times and
increased traffic volumes on the Youxiao Road, the number of villages connected to project rural
roads, the number of villages served by a rural bus service originating from the project rural bus
stations, and the completion of relevant institutional strengthening activities.



1
     The World Bank. November 26, 2007. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount
     of US$100 million to the People’s Republic of China for a Guiyang Transport Project. China and
     Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit, Sustainable Development Department, East Asia and Pacific
     Region.
2
     The World Bank. May 2006: Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for the
     Period of FY2006-FY2010 - approved by the Board on May 23, 2006.

                                                   1
The details of the PDO indicators and monitoring results can be found in Annex 1, and an
assessment of the indicators selected may be found in the Lessons Learnt section.

1.3      Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO and the key monitoring indicators were not revised during implementation. However,
the target values for intermediate outcome indicators were revised due to the reduction of the
number of roads and rural transportation terminals after the project was restructured in February
2012 following lengthy delays caused by design variations and subsequent changes in land
acquisition requirements. The original 44 rural roads and 46 rural bus terminals were reduced to
11 rural roads and 16 rural bus terminals under the Rural Transport Component due to a 51
percent increase in component unit cost. Therefore, the target values were revised to be 67 for
“number of villages connected by completed project roads” and 118 for “number of villages
connected by bus service on completed project roads”. 3

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

Based on the project characteristics and the PDO monitoring results, the main beneficiaries of the
project were intended to be and have been: 4

Local People in Longdongbao Area and Airport Traffic- As the main component of the project,
the Youxiao Road, was designed as a trunk road to connect Guiyang urban area with the
Longdongbao area. After completion, this road began service as the main transport corridor for
the passengers commuting to and from the Guiyang airport at Longdongbao. This road diverted
most of the traffic originally on the existing airport expressway. The average daily traffic was
about 39,200 passenger car unit (PCU) in 2013, which served at least 60,000 people per day.
Before the project, the Longdongbao area was separated from the core urban area by mountains
and had poor connectivity for the people commuting to and from the Guiyang core area. After
completion, the project provided a high speed corridor to the people in the Longdongbao area
along a shorter route and completely improved the connectivity for the local people to access
various socio-economic activities in the core urban area. 5

Rural Populations- Upon project completion, 11 rural roads and 16 rural bus terminals were
constructed or rehabilitated in the rural areas of Guiyang Municipality. These rural roads have
connected 67 administrative villages and the bus terminals served 118 administrative villages in
the rural areas of Guiyang, which directly benefit more than 200,000 rural people, including more
than 50,000 members of ethnic minorities.

Transport Administration and Maintenance Agencies- The project was the first transport project
in Guiyang financed by the World Bank. The implementation of the project brought substantial
international experience and exposure to new approaches to the transport administration agencies
at both the municipal and district/county levels, including methodologies for addressing road
maintenance, traffic survey techniques, and mechanisms for managing transport related debt.
These activities have improved the capacity of counterparts to maintain rural roads and manage
government debt.


3
    The original target values were 241 for “Number of villages connected by completed project roads” and
    348 for “Number of villages connected by bus service on completed project roads”.
4
    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not explicitly specify the main beneficiaries of this project.
5
    The Youxiao Road is toll-free and has shorter distance from Longdongbao to the core urban area.

                                                     2
1.5      Original Components

Component 1. Youxiao Road [USD143.10 million – 51.2% of the total project cost]
The physical output of the Youxiao Road Component is the construction of an approximately 7
kilometers, four-lane to six-lane, divided urban arterial road that connects the southeast corner of
the Guiyang urban core, Youzhajie, to Xiaobi in Longdongbao. This road serves a primary
function as a connector from the urban core to the Longdongbao area. Separated by mountains,
Longdongbao was in need of a direct connector to serve commercial, commuting, and school
traffic to and from the urban core.

Component 2. Rural Transport [USD135.47 million – 48.4% of the total project cost]
The physical output of the Rural Transport Component consisted of the construction or
rehabilitation of rural roads and rural bus stations. There were 44 road segments with an
aggregated length of 903 kilometers, comprised of approximately 668 kilometers to be
constructed or rehabilitated as Class III or Class IV rural roads together and approximately 235
kilometers of access roads (low-volume roads constructed or rehabilitated as less-than-Class IV
roads). Also, 44 rural bus stations and one rural freight depot were to be constructed. The
proposed bus stations –were to be simple Categories IV and V, which are the lowest according to
national standards.

Component 3. Institutional Development [USD1.20 million – 0.4% of the total project cost]
The project supported the development of the institutions of Guiyang Municipality through
studies, improvement of systems and training. These specific technical assistance (TA) activities
were selected during the preparation process in an effort to address specific areas requiring
capacity building and were well suited to the Bank’s assistance.

         (a) Rural road maintenance system (approximately USD350,000)
         (b) Traffic Survey (approximately USD250,000)
         (c) Training (approximately USD500,000)
         (d) Debt Management System (approximately USD100,000)

1.6      Revised Components

Rural Transport Component- The original size of the Rural Transport Component included 44
rural roads and 46 rural bus terminals. During implementation, it was found that the actual cost
for Batch-I of this component, including 10 rural roads and 10 bus terminals, had increased from
the original estimated cost of RMB387 million to about RMB585 million. This was mainly due to
increased area and rising compensation rate for the acquired lands, design variations, and price
escalation of the construction materials. As a result, the original total budget would not be enough
to finance the original size of the Rural Transport Component. It was agreed that the scope of the
Rural Transport Component should be reduced from 46 rural roads to 11 roads and 44 bus
terminals to 16 bus terminals. A loan amendment was made accordingly in March 2012. 6

1.7      Other Significant Changes

Project Restructurings- During implementation, the project was restructured three times.


6
    World Bank. Letter to MOF. March 5, 2012. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan No. 4881-CHA) –
    Amendment to the Loan Agreement. World Bank Office, Beijing

                                                  3
         The first time was in June 2010, when the loan proceeds were reallocated to meet the
          requirements of project financing. 7 (see section 2.2 for loan proceed reallocations)
         The second restructuring was made in February 2012, which included: (i) reduction of the
          project scope for the Rural Transport Component; (ii) changes in institutional
          arrangement for implementing the Batch-II of the Rural Transport Component; (iii)
          revision of Intermediate Outcome indicator targets; and (iv) reallocation of loan
          proceeds. 8
         A Level Two Project Restructuring was approved in December 2012, which included: (i)
          an extension of loan closing date by 12 months, from the original date of December 31,
          2012 to December 31, 2013; (ii) reallocation of loan proceeds and increase of the
          disbursement percentage; and (iii) addition of a legal covenant to enable the Bank to
          monitor more efficiently the activities related to resettlement, until completion. 9

2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons Learned- Further to the Bank’s extensive experience in the construction of expressways
and roads in China, several lessons learned with regard to technical design were incorporated into
the project, mainly including: (i) given that major variations occurred due to insufficient soil
testing in a number of Bank-financed projects, supplemental geotechnical investigation were
conducted prior to the detailed design stage, especially in the tunnel and bridge portions of the
Youxiao Road; (ii) there was a move away from the use of concrete pavements in this project
because of the problems caused by poorly prepared sub-base and the resulting premature cracking
and degradation of the pavement, thus the project would use more flexible bitumen-based
pavements for the Class III and IV roads (concrete would be used only on the access roads); and
(iii) finally, experience showed that identifying project development objectives, physical
components, and technical assistance that are within the control of the implementing entity to
deliver helped to ensure the same were achieved. These lessons guided the project design and
implementation.

Project Scope and Formulation- The project that the government proposed to the identification
mission consisted of five components, the three described in this document, together with several
arterial roads in and around the city as well as various freight transport terminals. During the early
preparation missions it was agreed to drop the arterial roads, as an initial assessment found that,
based upon existing conditions and traffic volumes, their proposed upgrading would not be
needed within the next ten years. The freight terminals component consisted of the substantial
upgrading of a container terminal and a freight terminal owned by two major state-owned
transport enterprises (SOEs) and the construction of a maintenance material depot owned by
Guiyang Municipal Communications Bureau (GMCB). As a condition of lending, the Bank



7
     World Bank. June 9, 2010. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Guiyang
     Transport Project, Loan No. 4881-CHA, (March 18, 2008), to the People’s Republic of China.
8
     World Bank. February 27, 2012. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Guiyang
     Transport Project, Loan No. 4881-CHA, (March 18, 2008), to the People’s Republic of China.
9
     World Bank. December 10, 2012, Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Guiyang
     Transport Project, Loan No. 4881-CHA, (March 18, 2008), to the People’s Republic of China.

                                                   4
proposed, and the government initially accepted, a restructuring scheme to be developed under
the project that would provide for the separation of public infrastructure ownership from
operation, allowing operations to be commercialized. During project preparation it was agreed
that such privatization of the operation service provision was premature and could not be
practically achieved during the expected life of the project, thus the component was dropped.
Alternatives Analysis for Youxiao Road- A comparative analysis of alternative alignments was
carried out during the feasibility study stage. Eight potential alignment combinations for Youxiao
Road, including full or partial use of existing roads, and the “no build” option were developed
and studied to identify the most cost-effective alignment that met the functional objectives. The
selected alignment was chosen after a final round of screening based on consideration of technical,
environmental and social aspects (i.e., avoidance of environmentally sensitive areas, less social
interference and resettlement, shorter length, less land occupation, and compatibility with local
master planning).

Rural Road and Bus Terminal Selection- The Rural Transport Component, upon initial review,
appeared that it could be effectively delivered through a programmatic approach. However, after
examination, it was apparent that Guiyang’s rural transport agencies were not sufficiently robust
to support such an approach. It was therefore decided to identify specific rural transport
investments and work to develop the capacity of the agencies during project implementation. The
rural road segments were selected from candidate segments identified in Guiyang’s rural road
development program as requiring upgrading through a prioritization process using agreed criteria.
These included likely impacts on poverty alleviation, social and economic benefits, and network
connectivity considerations. The rural bus terminals were selected on similar criteria, but all were
located in townships where they could do most to improve service delivery to the rural areas.

Potential Project Risks- At appraisal, the overall project risk was rated as modest. The main risks
identified included: (i) lack of coordination capacity of the executing agency; (ii) inadequate
government fiscal resources; (iii) project cost overrun and poor implementation management; and
(iv) sustainability of the Youxiao Road and the rural transport component. Measures to mitigate
these risks were proposed, including mainly: (i) enhancing project leadership and coordination; (ii)
improving government debt management capacity; (iii) conducting sustainability reviews, in
conjunction with Bank specialists, to ensure appropriate design and construction techniques were
utilized (additional technical assistance on longer term maintenance management was not
included); and (iv) ensuring compliance with the social and environmental safeguards through
regular supervision.

Quality at Entry- The Bank’s Quality Assessment Group did not conduct a Quality at Entry
Assessment (QAE) for this project. Based on the review of the project upon completion, project
preparation and design can be considered only moderately unsatisfactory. The feasibility study
was not sufficiently robust to accurately estimate project resource requirements, and the original
capacity assessment of the implementation agency and owner were not sufficient to identify
weaknesses that needed to be strengthend early in project implementation..

2.2     Implementation

Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation- Guiyang Municipal Government
(GMG) was the executing agency for the project. A Project Leading Group, led by a Vice Mayor
and consisting of other municipal government representatives, was formed to lead and coordinate
project implementation. A Guiyang Project Management Office (GPMO) was established to
manage the project on a daily basis. For implementation of the Youxiao Road Component, a
Youxiao Road General Supervising Engineer’s Office was established under the GMCB. Batch-I

                                                5
of the Rural Transport Component was implemented by Tongyuan Company. Batch-II was
directly implemented by the GPMO (see following paragraph). The GPMO took primary
responsibility for implementing the Institutional Development Component, but some technical
assistance (TA) was implemented by related government agencies. 10

Change in Implementation Agency- As arranged at appraisal, Tongyuan Road Construction
Development Co. Ltd. (Tongyuan Company) was the implementation agency for the Rural
Transport Component. While reviewing the causes of the implementation delays of Batch-I of the
Rural Transport Component (10 rural roads and 10 rural bus terminals) and institutional changes
within the Tongyuan Company, 11 it was determined in March 2012 that the GPMO would replace
Tongyuan Company to be responsible for implementing Batch-II of the Rural Transport
Component (1 rural road and 6 rural bus terminals), while Tongyuan Company continued
implementing and completing Batch-I. It was believed that, as a government agency, the GPMO
would be more effective in working with local governments to expedite implementation and, as
the main project counterpart, have more incentive to meet project deadlines. To reflect this
institutional change, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement between GMG and
Tongyuan Company were amended accordingly. For fulfilling the new implementation
responsibility, the GPMO was assigned experienced staff from GMCB.

Actual Project Outputs- During implementation, the project components remained the same as at
appraisal, but the outputs for the Rural Road Component were substantially reduced. The
following is a summary of the actual outputs. Details are in Annex 2.

         Youxiao Road- As anticipated, 7.04 kilometerskilometers of urban road from Youzhajie
          to Xiaozhai were constructed with a design speed of 60 kilometers per hour. During
          implementation, adequate quality control was in place to ensure the designed
          specifications were met. From 2008 on, a local road quality inspection station monitored
          construction quality. 12 In March 2010, a final inspection was conducted and concluded
          that the construction quality of the Youxiao Road was satisfactory and met all quality
          requirements with no serious defaults found. During the defect liability period (2 years),
          no unexpected or premature deterioration was reported.
         Rural Roads and Bus Terminals- Eleven segments of rural roads with a total length of 270
          kilometers were constructed or rehabilitated, including 180 kilometers of main roads as
          Class III or Class IV and 90 kilometers of access roads (less than Class IV). In addition,
          15 rural bus terminals and one freight depot were constructed. After completion of each
          project road, quality inspection was carried out jointly by the GPMO, the implementation
          agency, the supervision consultant, and the local quality inspection agency.
          Memorandums were prepared for the quality inspection, which were used as the project
          acceptance document.
         Capacity Building Programs- Three technical assistance programs were implemented




10
     The TA on Government Debt Management System was implemented by Guiyang Municipal Financial
     Bureau; The TA on Rural Road Maintenance Management Information System was implemented by
     Guiyang Municipal Road Division.
11
     In 2010, Tongyuan Company’s holding status was changed from Guiyang State Assets Management
     Commission to the newly established stated-owned enterprise - Guiyang Transport and Development
     Investment Group (GTDIG).
12
     Transport Construction Engineering Quality Inspection Station of Guiyang Municipality.

                                                   6
          successfully including: (i) a traffic survey, which was overseen by the GPMO; 13 (ii) a
          rural roads maintenance management information system; and (iii) government debt
          management. 14 In addition, four overseas study tours as well as 11 domestic training and
          study tours were organized. All of the capacity building programs achieved their
          anticipated objectives. A list of the training programs and study tours can be found in
          Annex 3.

Project Cost and Financing- According to the Feasibility Study Report prepared by the
counterparts prior to Appraisal, the total project cost would be USD314.42 million, including
USD100 million from the World Bank loan (31.8 percent) and USD214.42 million from the
government (68.2 percent). During implementation, when more detailed engineering designs were
prepared, cost estimates for Youxiao Road were revised upwards, due largely to additional land
acquisition costs. The project was restructured to accommodate these additional costs, with a
larger portion of the loan funding the Youxiao Road component than the rural roads component.

Upon completion, the actual cost was RMB2.199 billion (USD 360.7 million equivalent at the
exchange rate of USD1.00 = RMB6.1). 15 The final cost in RMB was about 10 percent lower than
was estimated at appraisal, but about 15 percent higher in terms of USD. 16 Among the project
costs (in USD), the cost for the Youxiao Road increased by 80 percent; the cost for the Rural
Road Component decreased by 26 percent; and the cost for the Institutional Development
Component decreased by 11 percent. The financial charges decreased by 98 percent due to lower
LIBOR interest rates during implementation. As a result, the project financing was also revised to
be 27.7 percent from the World Bank loan and 72.3 percent from the government. Details of the
project cost comparison and project financing can be found in Annex 4.

Loan Proceed Reallocations- To meet the actual project financing requirements and requests
from the government, the loan proceeds were reallocated three times.

The reallocations are summarized as follows, while the full reallocated amounts and actual
disbursements can be found in Annex 3.

         The first loan reallocation- In June 2010, it was found that the construction costs of the
          Youxiao Road exceeded the original estimated costs due to the escalation of market
          prices, depreciation of the US dollar, and work variations. The GMG approved and
          processed an increase of counterpart funds to cover the financing gap. Meanwhile, the
          GMG requested to reallocate the saved loan proceeds, which were originally allocated
          under the categories of Goods and Consultants’ Services and Interest during
          Construction.. As a result, the loan allocation to the Youxiao Road Component was
          increased from USD39.4 million to USD50.8 million. A loan amendment was made




13
     The traffic survey collected traffic data of the core urban area, which was used to develop the traffic
     demand model funded by the Agence Française de Développment (French Development Agency).
14
     For TA on Government Debt Management, the World Bank also provided a grant of US$100,000 to
     support the implementation.
15
     The original project cost was in RMB. While converting the RMB cost to USD, the loan amount in USD
     was directly used; the government funds in RMB were converted to USD using the exchange rate at loan
     closing on December 31, 2013 (US$ 1.00 = RMB6.0969).
16
     During implementation the US$ depreciated compared to the RMB by about 20%.

                                                      7
          accordingly in June 2010. 17
         The second loan reallocation- Due to the changes in scope of the Rural Transport
          Component, the loan proceeds were reallocated again in early 2012 at the government’s
          request. The loan allocation for the Rural Transport Component was increased by
          USD1.5 million, which was covered by savings from consulting services and interest. A
          loan amendment was made accordingly in March 2012. 18
         The third loan reallocation- The last loan reallocation was made in accordance with the
          third project restructuring in December 2012, which reallocated a small amount of the
          loan savings from lower interest (USD33,758) to the Institutional Development
          Component. In the meantime, the disbursement percentage for the Rural Transport
          Component was increased from 60 percent to 100 percent. The last loan reallocation was
          reflected in the loan amendment in December 2012. 19

Implementation Schedule- Youxiao Road was implemented ahead of schedule, while
implementation of the Rural Transport Component was substantially delayed.

      •   Youxiao Road- The construction of the Youxiao Road was officially launched on July 18,
          2008. The entire Youxiao Road was substantially completed and opened to traffic on
          February 5, 2010. The total construction period was 18 months, only half of the planned
          36 months.

      •   Rural Transport- On the other hand, implementation of the Rural Transport Component
          was delayed. As arranged at appraisal, it was carried out in several batches. Batch-I of 10
          rural roads and 10 bus terminals were selected during appraisal. Advance contracting was
          applied to Batch-I. The contract for the 10 bus terminals was awarded in October 2008
          and the contracts for the rural roads were awarded in April 2009. However, the Bank’s
          mission in September 2009 found that about half of the rural roads and bus terminals
          were behind schedule, mainly due to unresolved resettlement issues. The Bank mission
          asked the GPMO and Tongyuan Company to work jointly and coordinate with the
          relevant municipal and local county governments to resolve the pending issues.
          Nevertheless, implementation of the Rural Transport Component remained slow and
          faced many challenges such as problems with land acquisition, poor project management,
          ineffective institutional coordination, and increased costs. With joint efforts by the
          municipal government, the GPMO, the implementation agency and the Bank’s task team,
          the problems were gradually resolved. But only one road was completed before October
          2010. To facilitate the project’s implementation, the World Bank approved an extension
          of the loan closing date by one year to December 31, 2013. Eventually, six roads were
          completed before December 2012, and the remaining roads were completed by October
          2013. Most of the rural bus terminals were completed before December 2012 except for
          two terminals completed in 2013. Starting from November 2011, the project’s
          implementation progress was rated moderately satisfactory in the Bank’s Implementation
          Status and Results reports (ISR).



17
     World Bank: Letter to MOF. June 21, 2010. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan No. 4881-CHA) –
     Reallocation of Loan Proceeds. World Bank Office, Beijing
18
     World Bank: Letter to MOF. March 5, 2012. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan No. 4881-CHA) –
     Amendment to Loan Proceeds. World Bank Office, Beijing
19
     World Bank: Letter to MOF, December 10, 2012. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan No. 4881-
     CHA) – Amendment to the Loan Agreement. World Bank Office, Beijing

                                                   8
       Institutional Development- The TA and the training under the project were implemented
        efficiently and effectively. The traffic survey started in December 2007 and was
        completed in July 2008; the TA on government debt management started in April 2009
        and was completed in May 2011; and the TA on rural road maintenance MIS started in
        November 2010 and was completed in October 2012. The domestic training and study
        tours were implemented between 2009 and 2012 and the overseas training was conducted
        from 2012–2013.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

PDO Indicator Monitoring- At appraisal, a results framework was designed and a set of
indicators were selected to track the final and intermediate project outcomes. During
implementation, the GPMO monitored and analyzed the indicators. Institutional strengthening
initiatives related to establishing more sustainable mechanisms for rural road maintenance and
enhancing capacity for managing municipal debt included a number of TAs as well as targeted
trainings, domestic knowledge exchanges, and overseas study tours. Data on the highway and
roads were collected and summaries related to implementation of the institutional capacity
building initiatives were reported every quarter. The monitoring results were processed and the
analysis results were incorporated in the semi-annual project progress reports. Due to the changes
in the scope of the Rural Transport Component, related indicator targets were also revised.

Social Safeguard Monitoring- During implementation, the social safeguards were monitored and
evaluated according to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan (IPDP) developed at appraisal. Internal monitoring was carried out by the GPMO and the
monitoring results were incorporated in the semi-annual project progress reports. In the meantime,
external monitoring was conducted by an independent consulting entity engaged under the project.
Altogether, six external social monitoring reports were submitted to the World Bank in a timely
manner during implementation and the final monitoring report was submitted to the World Bank
in April 2014. The monitoring reports recorded all resettlement activities of the Youxiao Road
and the Rural Transport Components. The Bank task team reviewed the external monitoring and
evaluation reports, which were generally found to be of high quality, and provided comments on
social safeguard compliance as well as enhancement of the monitoring. The task team requested
the local government staff to read the reports and to improve their resettlement work accordingly.

Environmental Impact Monitoring- According to the Environment Management Plan (EMP), a
complete institutional framework was established to monitor the environmental impacts of the
project and resolve any environmental problem that occurred. The contracts with the civil works
contractors included the items related to environmental protection as well as soil and water
conservation. The supervision engineers and local environmental protection agency checked, on a
daily basis, the requirements related to environmental protection, including criteria for water
protection. The project implementation agencies visited the project site regularly and supervised
compliance with the environment plans. If any issue related to non-compliance was identified,
actions to resolve or mitigate the problem were determined and implemented. The status of
implementing the environment management plan was described in the semi-annual project
progress reports. A summary of the environmental monitoring and evaluation report was
submitted to the World Bank after the Project was fully completed. The Bank’s task team
checked on the environmental compliance by fielding missions and reviewing monitoring reports.
No significant environmental damage was observed.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

                                                9
Rating: Satisfactory

Social Safeguards- At appraisal, a social assessment was conducted and an IPDP was developed,
which primarily focused on ensuring that the minority communities enjoyed sufficient
opportunities to benefit from the project and that the project was designed in a culturally
appropriate manner. As adverse impacts of the project primarily were associated with land
acquisition, mitigation measures were provided in the resettlement action plan (RAP). During
implementation, the GPMO took primary responsibility for implementing the plan. The
resettlement agencies established at district/county levels were responsible for the resettlement
activities within their boundaries. During the Project Launch mission in July 2008, the Bank
mission found that compensation rates for the Youxiao Road resettlement were lower than those
specified in the RAP. This issue was quickly remedied, and in October 2008, the Bank found that
compensation rates for Youxiao Road were higher than was required in the RAP..

Subsequent Bank missions found that the resettlement progress for both Youxiao Road and the
Rural Road Component were behind schedule. All 142 households displaced due to construction
of Youxiao Road signed contracts for resettlement and/or compensation only by September 2013,
just 3 months prior to project close. Full resettlement will not be completed until December 2014.
Also, land acquisition and resettlement activities for the Rural Transport Component, specifically
on Xiaohegou–Shuikou Road and Weicheng–Liuji Road, were completed only one month before
closing.

Monitoring of remaining safeguards ctivities will take place in parallel with the Guiyang Rural
Roads Project (approved by the Board in March 2014) supervision activities.

Environmental Safeguards- The project was classified as Category A due to its potential
environmental and social impacts during construction and operation. An environmental
assessment was conducted in accordance with requirement of the Bank’s OP4.01 and with
guidance from the Bank’s task team. Accordingly, reports on the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were prepared. During
implementation, measures specified in the EMP were incorporated into the civil works bidding
documents; an environmental specialist was engaged in the supervision consulting team; and all
county PMOs and contractors were familiarized with the project’s EIA and the EMP through
training and distribution of related documents. Environmental compliance focused on air
pollution during construction, wastewater discharge, noise generated by construction, waste
construction materials, contractors camps, and temporary land recovery. During implementation,
it was found that some construction waste materials were displaced and some slopes were
damaged by landslides. For such problems, warning was given to the related contractors and
quick actions were taken. For mitigating noise of vehicles on the Youxiao Road, 3,400 m of
sound protection barriers were installed along the populated sections. Overall, project
implementation complied with all the government’s environment laws and the Bank’s
requirements.

Financial Management- The financial management assessment at appraisal concluded that the
project met minimum World Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP
10.02. The financial management risk was rated modest. During implementation, the GPMO’s
financial staff worked closely with the provincial and municipal financial agencies. Commercial
accounting software packages were used by the GPMO and the implementation agencies. All the
financial records including financial statements, ledgers, contracts, supporting documents and
withdrawal applications were systematically maintained by the GPMO and district/county PIUs.
During the Bank’s mission in March 2009, its financial specialist reviewed the financial

                                               10
management of the project and concluded that the project continued to have an adequate project
financial management system that could provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information to attest that the Bank’s loan proceeds were being used for the intended purposes.
However, the Bank mission in November 2009 found that the significant cost overruns for the
Youxiao Road, comprising resettlement cost, pipeline reallocation, change orders, and
depreciation of the USD compared to the RMB. The mission requested the GPMO to coordinate
with all related implementing agencies to compile adequate documents to justify the cost overrun,
and the municipal and provincial Development and Reform Commissions were recommended to
conduct their review in an efficient manner. During implementation, the project financial
accounts were audited by an external financial audit entity and five financial audit reports (2008–
2012) with auditor’s opinions were submitted to the World Bank in a timely manner, which were
reviewed and found acceptable to the World Bank. The audit reports included qualified opinions
– that is, the financial statements, in the opinion of the auditor, presented fairly the financial
position of the project, its financial receipts and disbursements, the project implementation, and
the requirements of the project loan agreement.

During the Bank’s ICR mission in 2014, the last financial audit for 2013 was still ongoing. The
Borrower, through the GPMO, also complied with the legal covenant to submit the semi-annual
Interim Unaudited Financial Reports to the World Bank in a timely manner.

Procurement and Contract Management- Procurement was carried out in accordance with the
World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004,
and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated
May 2004. At appraisal, the procurement capacity of the implementation agency was assessed
and a procurement plan was established. As arranged, the procurement was facilitated separately
by the Youxiao Road General Supervising Engineer’s Office for the Youxiao Road Component,
by Tongyuan Company for the Batch-I of the Rural Transport Component, and by the GPMO for
the Institutional Development Component and the Batch-II of the Rural Transport Component.
The Bank procurement staff reviewed all procurement documents and provided substantial advice
to guide and assist the procurement activities. Due to unforeseen geological conditions and
variations in the design, contract change orders were needed. The GPMO established internal
approval and processing procedures to handle the variations. The Youxiao Road General
Supervising Engineer’s Office prepared the “Youxiao Road Variations Management Rules” based
on the Order No.5 of 2005, addressing variation management as issued by the Ministry of
Transport. The Bank task team reviewed the document and found it to be generally acceptable.
During the review of procurement documents for the first rural bus terminal, it was apparent that
the method of cost estimation needed improvement, as the final contract price was about 30
percent above the original cost estimate. Although the GPMO provided the World Bank with
justification for the price increase and this was accepted by the Bank, the cause for such a low
cost estimate was analyzed and avoided in future contracts. Due to changes in the project scope,
the procurement plan was updated several times. Upon project completion, 27 contracts were
procured and implemented, including 11 for the Youxiao Road Component, 10 for the Rural
Transport Component, and six for the Institutional Development Component. A summary of the
project contracts may be found in Annex 5.

Monitoring and Reporting- As a project covenant, it was required that the Borrower should
monitor and evaluate the progress of the project and prepare project reports in accordance with
the Loan Agreement and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Agreement. The
Borrower required the project implementing entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of
the Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the project covering the semester, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. During implementation, the Borrower provided

                                                11
adequate monitoring and evaluations of the project progress. The GPMO prepared and submitted
to the World Bank all the reports required in the project legal documents, including semi-annual
project progress reports, semi-annual interim unaudited financial reports, annual financial audit
reports, as well as social and environmental monitoring reports (except those mentioned earlier,
which are pending post project-close, such as the final financial audit). Upon completion, the
GPMO prepared and submitted the Borrower’s Project Implementation Completion and Results
Report to the World Bank, which was found to be satisfactory.

In terms of lessons learned, in future rural road projects, project teams may consider including
indicators that highlight the accessibility benefits more prominently. For example, the key benefit
of the Youxiao Road component was the increased accessibility it provided to an underdeveloped
part of Guiyang. However, the indicators only show changes in traffic volumes and travel times,
which do not reflect this positive outcome.

2.5     Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

Youxiao Road- The Youxiao Road was substantially completed and opened to public traffic in
February 2010. The Youxiao Road was officially handed over to the Guiyang Municipal Urban
Administration Bureau (GMUAB) for operation on April 20, 2010.

Within the GMUAB there is a Road and Bridge Administration Division, which is responsible for
operating and maintaining all urban roads in core areas of Guiyang, including the Youxiao Road.
This division has about 70–80 staff who mainly perform technical administration. The cleaning
and greening are the responsibility of other divisions. Large-scale maintenance activities are
implemented through outsourcing in accordance with government regulations. All budgets for
operation and maintenance are from the municipal fiscal expenditures, including that for routine
and periodic maintenance. The average budget is about RMB 6 million per year for routine
maintenance (excluding staff cost), though the need is estimated to be more than ten-fold higher.
Based on local experience, the cost for periodic maintenance (re-pavement) is expected to be
approximately RMB5 million per kilometer if scheduled on a regular basis and executed
accordingly. The traffic monitoring and safety management is the responsibility of the traffic
police. According to the traffic counts provided by the GPMO, the daily traffic on the Youxiao
Road increased from 36,400 PCU in 2010 to 39,200 PCU in 2013. Most of the traffic was small
passenger cars going to and from the airport. However, the fire protection equipment within the
tunnel along the Youxiao Road was not yet handed over to the GMUAB at project closure due to
some damage and loss functionality of certain facilities. The GMCB and GMUAB in close
cooperation with the suppliers are working to resolve all deficiencies to achieve full functionality
and hand over as quickly as possible.

Rural Roads- Development of rural roads in Guiyang is administrated by the GMCB. Under it,
the Guiyang Municipal Road Division (GMRD) is responsible for administration and
maintenance of the rural roads network. At district/county level, there are road maintenance
sections for daily maintenance of the rural roads in their administrative areas. The budget for rural
road maintenance is drawn mainly from provincial and municipal fiscal expenditures at the quota
of RMB7,000 per kilometer for county roads, RMB3,500 per kilometer for township roads, and
RMB1,000 per kilometer for village roads. The district/county governments also provide some
funds for maintaining the rural roads. Large-scale maintenance activities, like rehabilitation and
repair of flood damage, are planned by the GMRD and financed by the municipal government. To
improve the rural road maintenance, a GIS-based rural road maintenance MIS was developed
under the project. A planned World Bank-financed project in Guiyang will also undertake an in-
depth analysis of the rural maintenance, including enhancing and utilization of the rural road

                                                 12
maintenance MIS. 20 However, the Bank’s ICR mission observed that (i) maintenance of some
project roads had still not been transferred to the district/county transport bureau, which caused
some neglect of maintenance; (ii) some roads were not well managed, with dumped waste
materials and damage from other construction activities; and (iii) some roads sections were
damaged by overloaded trucks.

Rural Bus and Freight Terminals- In total there are 39 township bus terminals in Guiyang
Municipality, including the 16 terminals constructed under the project. The bus terminals are
administered by county communication bureaus. The municipal government has a regulation that
all the passenger and freight terminals funded by the governments should be operated by
government entities. Currently, the operation and maintenance of the bus terminals and freight
depots are mostly delegated to the township governments without any budget allocation. Due to
the slow implementation of rural bus service plan, poor selection of locations, and over-optimistic
passenger forecasts, most of the bus terminals and freight depots are not well operated and
maintained. The Bank’s ICR mission noticed that some of the bus terminals had been used for
other purposes, such as government offices or rented out for restaurants. The GMCB is now
working on an operational arrangement plan bringing together relevant government regulations,
budget allocations, revenue generation, service, and safety.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project’s PDO was linked directly to the themes stated in the FY2006-FY2010 CPS for
China and continues to be so, including ( (i) promoting more inclusive development and (ii)
advancing mutually beneficial development. 21 The PDO was also consistent with China’s
development priorities at the time of appraisal, and remains relevant at the time of project
completion. The design and implementation of the project components, including infrastructure
and institutional development components, have ensured successful and effective achievement of
the PDO. Due to changes in the scope of the Rural Transport Component and the project
requirements, the project had three restructurings during implementation, which included
adjustments of the PDO targets and institutional re-arrangement of project implementation. At
completion, all project components remained essential to meet the overall development objectives
of China, the Bank, and the project. The design and implementation of the project also complied
with the Bank’s prevailing social and environmental safeguard policies and fiduciary
requirements.

3.2       Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project outputs and outcomes as well as the monitoring results show that the PDO anticipated
at appraisal was effectively achieved. That said, the outcome indicator targets did have to be
revised mid-project, to meet design changes resulting from restructuring, and their achievement
were delayed by one year.




20
     The World Bank, PAD on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of USD 150 million to the People’s Republic
     of China for a Guiyang Rural Road Transport Project (P129401)
21
     The World Bank. October 2012. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for
     the Period of FY2013-FY2016. Report No. 67566-CN.

                                                   13
Improved Accessibility and Mobility- Upon completion, 7.04 kilometers of the Youxiao Road
was constructed and opened to traffic in 2010, connecting the core area of Guiyang city with the
airport and the less developed communities at Longdongbao. Since commencement of service,
the Youxiao Road has served as the main road link to the airport due to its shorter distance,
reduced travel time, better road condition, and absence of tolls. It has diverted most of the traffic
from the original airport expressway and the parallel local road (G321). In 2013, the average daily
traffic reached about 39,200 PCU, which served at least 60,000 people per day. In comparison to
the airport expressway, the average traveling time was seven minutes on the Youxiao Road or
about two minutes less than on the original expressway. Travel time savings do not necessarily
reflect the Project’s overarching benefit -- the opening of the Youxiao Road has completely
changed the traffic flows in the Longdongbao area and substantially improved the accessibility
and mobility of Guiyang.

Under the project, 11 segments of rural roads totaling 270 kilometers were constructed or
rehabilitated, and 16 rural bus terminals were constructed. In comparison to conditions before the
project, these rural roads and bus terminals have radically improved the transport conditions in
the project area. Before the project, the rural roads were mainly earthen (which oftentimes turned
to mud) or gravel-paved road with poor transport conditions and subject to closure or un-drivable
conditions resulting in disconnection with other infrastructure and social services during the rainy
season. All of the project rural roads are now asphalt-paved, which provided all-weather access to
the rural people. On the project roads, vehicle may travel at an average of 50 kilometers per hour,
compared to 20 kilometers per hour before the project. Compared to conditions before the project,
the new bus terminals now provide improved transport services in the rural areas and public
transport system users. The result is safer, more efficient (in terms of fiscal and technical
provisions demands due to improved road quality and maintenance methodologies), improved
comfort, and more reliable services to access a variety of social and economic activities and
public services for rural people. These roads connect 67 administrative villages and the bus
terminals serve 118 administrative villages in the rural areas of Guiyang, which directly benefit
more than 200,000 rural people, including more than 50,000 people of ethnic minorities.

Strengthened Institutional Capacity for Rural Road Development and Maintenance- The
capacity development programs under the project significantly strengthened government debt
management in Guiyang and effectively improved the institutional capacity for rural road
development and maintenance. The TA on government debt management system has established
a basis for enhancing the government debt planning and management in Guiyang by addressing
project implementation capacity development, enhanced coordination with local governments,
and application of a new financial management scheme for the counterpart funds from
district/county governments.

The Rural Road Maintenance MIS system has provided substantial data, a set of methodologies,
and a GIS-based computer system for rural road maintenance planning. The new system uses a
weighted approach to measure six indicators, including the road administration level, road
condition, traffic, impacted population, social service, and policy considerations. The approach
allows the level of maintenance required on each road segment to be quantitatively prioritized can
and assess the overall impacts of a proposed maintenance plan. While this approach is
significantly more holistic and systematic compared to its predecessor there will likely be
enhancements identified during the next few years; therefore, the MIS may be improved and
expanded during the next World Bank-financed project in the municipality.




                                                 14
During implementation, the GPMO completed all training and study tour activities, which have
brought substantial experience and knowledge in urban and rural road development and
maintenance.

3.3     Efficiency

For reassessing the project’s efficiency, an economic reevaluation was conducted by the World
Bank ICR task team. A traffic analysis was carried out by using the actual traffic counts provided
by the GPMO and comparing them with appraisal forecasts. The traffic forecast for future years
was revised accordingly. The economic reevaluation assumed that the vehicles on the project
roads (Youxiao Road and the project rural roads) could drive at faster speeds with lower vehicle
operating costs (VOC) and less travel time. Economic benefits were calculated by comparing the
“with-project” and “without-project” cases. Consequently, the economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) was calculated for the whole project, as well as for Youxiao Road and the rural roads
separately. The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was recalculated at 16 percent for the
whole project (16.3 percent for the Youxiao Road and 14.1 percent for the rural roads). The EIRR
for Youxiao Road was slightly higher than that at appraisal (15.9 percent), which was due to
higher traffic volumes partly offset by the higher capital cost. The EIRR for the rural roads was
lower than that at appraisal (18.3 percent), which was mainly caused by higher capital cost and
lower traffic volumes. However, the EIRRs for the whole project as well as for each component
were higher than the World Bank recommended discount rate. Therefore, the project was still
considered to be economically viable.

The EIRRs were subjected to sensitivity analysis to test different scenarios of the costs and
benefits. Analysis showed that the project continues to be economically viable for all scenarios
within a probable range. If a 20 percent maintenance cost increase were to be combined with a 20
percent benefit reduction, the EIRR would be 12.3 percent for the whole project. The sensitivity
analysis also showed that the EIRR is more sensitive to changes in benefits.

Therefore, the governments should maintain the roads in good condition for attracting and
facilitating more traffic. Details of the economic reevaluation are presented in Annex 8.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

On the basis of the above discussion on the project’s relevance, effectiveness, and efficiency, the
overall project rating is moderately satisfactory.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The rural roads and bus terminals implemented through the project are located in areas serving a
large low-income population and minority groups. The road segments were selected from
candidate segments identified as requiring upgrading in Guiyang’s rural road development
program, through a prioritization process using agreed criteria. These included likely impacts on
poverty alleviation, social and economic benefits, and network connectivity considerations. The
rural bus terminals were selected on similar criteria, but all had to be located in townships to
improve service delivery to rural areas. The social assessments were carried out at appraisal,

                                                15
providing an opportunity for screening the demands of social and economic growth requested by
rural communities and also for prioritizing needs identified in the course of rural development
planning. In conjunction with this process a Minority Ethnic Development Plan was established.

However, no systemic social impact monitoring programs were designed and implemented under
the project, which might have resulted in better information collection on the details of social
impacts as anticipated at appraisal, like rural economic development, poverty reduction, minority
ethnic development, increased income and rural females’ social class, education development,
and working opportunities provided by the project implementation.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

Implementation of Rural Transport Projects- The Rural Transport Component under the project
was implemented in two batches. The Batch-I was implemented by Tongyuan Company.
Considering the implementation delays and the capacity of Tongyuan Company, Batch-II was
directly implemented by the GPMO. To mitigate the continuation of potential problems
associated with Batch-I, the GPMO strengthened its project implementation capacity, enhanced
coordination with local governments, and also applied a new financial management scheme for
the counterpart funds from district/county governments. That is, the district and county
government were required to transfer all the needed counterpart funds to the GPMO before the
civil works started. The practice demonstrated that such an institutional change was effective and
efficient to ensure the rural roads were implemented in a timely manner. Considering the
measures were successful, this institutional arrangement should be used for subsequent World
Bank-supported rural roads project in Guiyang.

Institutional Capacity for Rural Road Maintenance- The Rural Road Maintenance MIS
intended not only to develop a computer-based information system, but also tried to strengthen
rural road maintenance planning and management. In the MIS, six indicators were selected to
measure the level of maintenance required on each road segment, which included the road
administration level, road condition, traffic, impacted population, social service, and policy
considerations. A weighted average was calculated based on the weight and score for each
indicator. Such an indicator can been used to quantitatively prioritize the proposed maintenance
projects and assess the overall impacts of the maintenance plan. This approach will change the
way of planning maintenance by considering multiple factors while making the plan systematic.
The system will require further investment to achieve its full potential – for example, built-in
analytical tools for prioritizing maintenance needs.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Not applicable

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

At appraisal, public consultations were conducted during both the RAP and IPDP preparation in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines. Local government agencies arranged consultations,
coordinated survey-related activities, organized village and community meetings, and
disseminated project information to the local people. The social assessment report, draft RAP and
draft IPDP were placed in local municipal libraries in December 2006, and their public
availability was announced in advertisements placed in local newspapers. The public
consultations and information disclosure were detailed in the RAP.

                                               16
For the EIA and EMP, two rounds of public consultation were carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's guidelines. The first round of consultation was held in March-April 2006, by means
of household visits, public meetings and questionnaire surveys, with total of 193 community
members participating. The second round of consultation was conducted in October 2006, during
which responses on previous public opinion were presented. About 100 participants were
involved, including local people who would be affected directly by the project, forest park
management, and local government officials. The main concerns from the public included land
acquisition and compensation, ecological restoration, water intake impact, and noise.. These
valuable findings were summarized, commented on in the EIA reports, and were incorporated
into the EMP.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Youxiao Road- Since opening to traffic, the Youxiao Road has served as the main gateway to
Guiyang City. The traffic increased steadily and reached about 39,200 PCU per day in 2013,
taking about 53 percent of the total corridor traffic. In the period of 2006–2012, the average GDP
growth rate of Guiyang Municipality was about 15 percent per year. Such a development trend is
likely to be kept for the near future, which will lead to high traffic volumes on the Youxiao Road.
The opening of the Youxiao Road has effectively stimulated an expedited development trajectory
in the Longdongbao area, where a large number of investment projects are ongoing. For example,
the biggest hospital of Guiyang has also moved to this area. Adequate road maintenance is in
place to keep the road in good condition. The risk to the development outcome is Negligible.

Rural Roads- The construction and rehabilitation of the rural roads under the project resulted in
improvement to transport conditions in the project areas. The Bank’s ICR mission noticed that
socio-economic development was visibly improving. By taking advantage of the improved
transport infrastructure, agriculture, especially fruit production, began expanding rapidly, with an
increase of at least 10 percent in 2013 (in Xiuwen County). Also many large trucks were using
the project roads for transporting mineral products. The average daily traffic on the project roads
increased from 210 PCU in 2012 to 270 PCU in 2013, a growth of about 24 percent.
Unfortunately, many overloaded trucks appeared to be using the project roads, which could
damage the pavement and lead to accidents. The governments need to strengthen enforcement of
traffic laws and implement measures to control overloaded trucks on rural roads. In general, the
risk to keeping the rural roads maintained and achieving their development outcome is Moderate,
given funding constraints for maintenance and monitoring mentioned earlier.

Rural Bus Terminals- Most of the bus terminals in the rural areas are not well operated and
maintained, including those constructed with project financing. The main reasons were low traffic,
inappropriate location, weak administration, and incomplete regulations. It is likely that use of the
bus terminals and freight depots will improve along with the development of small towns and
rural transport in Guiyang. In the meantime, the governments at both municipal and county levels
need to develop a proper strategy and policy, apply adequate regulation and management, and
provide sufficient support to the operation and maintenance of these bus terminals. In accordance
with the current situation, the risk of achieving development outcomes is Moderate.




                                                17
5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

This was the first World Bank-financed road project in Guiyang. Experience and lessons from
preparing and implementing similar projects were reasonably considered and incorporated in the
project design and formulation. A strong task team was formed, together with assembled experts
from different fields. During preparation, the Bank’s task team provided training on fiduciary
arrangements, procurement procedures, environmental and social safeguards, as well as technical
considerations.

The team’s appraisal activities included: (i) assessing the status of urban and rural transport in
Guiyang; (ii) analyzing sub-project alternatives; (iii) identifying safeguard policies and measures
for minimizing impacts to local residents and the environment; and (iv) identifying opportunities
for institutional strengthening, including debt management and maintenance monitoring.

The team did not, however, successfully conduct a thorough due diligence of the feasibility study
report for the Youxiao Road project component, which substantially underestimated the resource
requirements and potential exchange rate impacts, leading to a necessary project restructuring
during implementation. Further, the team did not identify weaknesses in institutional capacity to
manage the proposed construction activities, leading to a need to revise the institutional
arrangements during implementation.


(b)     Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

For closely supervising and managing the project, a strong task team was maintained throughout
the project’s implementation. The task team closely supervised and monitored the progress of
implementation and in a timely manner identified the hindrance to implementation or potential
departure from the development objectives through the following three mechanisms: (i)
conducting supervision missions biannually and many small missions to the field; (ii) reviewing
the semi-annual project progress reports, annual audit financial reports, and external monitoring
reports on safeguards; and (iii) monitoring the PDO result indicators provided annually. For
assisting the Institutional Development Component, two-short term consultants were recruited to
guide and coordinate implementation of the TA and training programs. (The Bank’s missions and
task team members are listed in Annex 5.) To facilitate implementation, the Bank agreed three
times to requests from the Government to restructure the project and reallocate the loan proceeds,
which were based on in-depth analysis and thorough discussion. The midterm reviews were
conducted in three missions. The quality of the Bank’s supervision is rated Satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                                18
While the Bank team performance during supervision was satisfactory, failure to identify risks
during preparation associated with the feasibility study report resource estimates and institutional
arrangements results in only a Moderately Satisfactory rating overall.


5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

For preparation and implementation of the project, the governments at both the provincial and
municipal levels established an adequate organizational arrangement. During implementation, the
provincial government provided adequate and timely support, including reviewing and approving
design documents, managing the designated account for the Bank loan, assisting overseas study
tours, as well as coordinating with the World Bank and the central government. The municipal
government provided close guidance and monitoring of the project’s progress and ensured the
availability and adjustment of the counterpart funds. The related municipal government agencies,
including the Municipal Development and Reform Commission, the Municipal Financial Bureaus,
and the Municipal Communication Bureau, were deeply involved in project implementation.
However, some counterpart funds from the municipal and district/county governments were not
provided in a timely manner and some resettlement activities were delayed. Since the counterpart
was able to quickly and effectively work with the Bank team to remedy funding and delay issues
as they arose, the overall performance of the government was Satisfactory.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Youxiao Road was implemented by the GMCB and completed within 18 months, only half
of the time anticipated. However, there were some delays in payment of the contractors, as well
as with completion of the resettlement activities.

Implementation of Batch-I of the Rural Road Component experienced many construction and
resettlement delays. After restructuring, the GMPO, rather than the Tongyuan Company, directly
implemented Batch-II of the Rural Transport Component, which resulted in more timely
implementation.

The Institutional Development component was implemented by the GPMO with technical
assistance from related government agencies. All TAs and training programs were completed as
anticipated.

As required, the GPMO prepared all the progress reports, which were submitted to the World
Bank on time. Project procurement and contract management experienced no major issues during
implementation. The financial account for the project was audited by external auditors and the
audit reports revealed no serious financial problems. The GPMO facilitated all Banks missions
with adequate assistance.




                                                19
Although the GPMO performed well on the Youxiao Road and Batch II construction activities,
because of construction, contractor payment, and resettlement delays, the overall implementing
agencies’ performance has been rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

For preparing and implementing the project, the Borrower and related government agencies
established a completed organizational framework and provided adequate administrative and
financial support. With the joint efforts of the governments and the implementing agencies, the
project was successfully implemented with reasonable quality. Although a few indicators were
revised and there were notable challenges with the Rural Road Component, the PDO anticipated
at appraisal was effectively achieved by increasing access to and mobility along Youxiao Road as
well as through activities aimed at building the capacity of the institutions responsible for road
development and a more systematic and strategic approach to road maintenance (though, it may
be too soon to pass a final judgment). The experience gained from implementation of this project
may be disseminated to other similar projects in Guiyang. The overall performance of the
Borrower was Satisfactory.

6.    Lessons Learnt

PDO Design and Monitoring- The PDO indicators could have been designed more effectively.
Specifically, two outcome indicators (traffic and travel times on the parallel roads) were not
directly linked with the project and were affected by many factors not related to the project. Some
target values were not consistent (by percentage and by absolute value). In general, the
improvement of accessibility and mobility should be measured by corridor traffic and travel time.
At appraisal, the PDO monitoring was not well arranged. During implementation, the GPMO
monitored the indicators inconsistently with some initial delays: different approaches were used
(variability in sampling method) from one report to another and traffic counts were not collected
and processed professionally. In addition, there was no monitoring program for the social impacts,
which may measure the project influence to the rural population, especially the poor and the
vulnerable groups. In the future rural roads, projects teams need to have more systematic poverty
impact assessment.

Financial Capacity and Counterpart Fund Management- Approval and provision of additional
funding for the project after restructuring took time, which contributed to implementation delays.
In future projects, the fiscal capacity of the governments should be well assessed.

To avoid the counterpart funding problems, implementation of Batch-II of the Rural Transport
Component applied an adjusted financial management scheme, with the GPMO directly
responsible for implementation, which proved to be effective and should be used in subsequent
World Bank-financed rural road projects in Guiyang.

Project Preparation- Some of the fiscal challenges previously discussed can be ultimately traced
back to project preparation. Issues not identified until the detailed design or construction phases
resulted in variations that caused implementation delays and subsequent cost overruns associated
with (i) material cost escalations (both raw and manufactured, as well as transport of materials),
(ii) changes in land acquisition and resettlement planning, as well as (iii) alterations in
implementation periods or input (manpower and equipment) demands. Future engagements

                                                20
should place greater emphasis on development and review of project feasibility studies,
investigation of any relevant government policies, construction industry related market studies,
and improved coordination with resettlement document preparation and activities.

Further, future similar projects would benefit from an independent review of all engineering
designs and cost estimates before their implementation .

Coordination amongst Government Agencies- for a key factor contributing to the project
implementation delays was the slow land acquisition and resettlement activities for Batch-I of the
Rural Transport Component. This in turn caused further problems in quantity changes and
compensation standards. The experience from implementing Batch-II and the later stage of the
Batch-I was that strong coordination with the local government (county and township) was a must
for efficient facilitation of the land acquisition and resettlement activities. In future projects, such
coordination should be enhanced. In addition, civil works should commence only after the land
acquisition and resettlement activities are fully (or at least substantially) completed.

Also, related to the bus terminals, governments at both municipal and county levels need to
develop a proper strategy and policy, apply adequate regulation and management, and provide
sufficient support to the operation and maintenance.

7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Continued Support from the World Bank- Transport related development challenges identified
by the Guiyang Municipality remain and continued support from the World Bank, especially for
rural road development and maintenance activities, is warranted. In addition to infrastructure
investment, any continuation of engagement should include an enhanced institutional
development component to address long-term sustainable development needs. Adequate technical
support from the World Bank is essential to ensure the success of the institutional development
programs. For the TA, ideally the World Bank would provide more grants and international
expertise. For the training and study tour program, future engagements should provide more
guidance based on and introductions to successful domestic and international examples.

Strengthening of Project Preparation- The project preparation should be enhanced, including
improved screening and selection of proposed sub-projects, advancements in surveying and
design methodologies, financial capacity assessment, and implementation arrangements. In the
meantime, a coordination mechanism should be established amongst the related government
agencies at both the municipal and district/county levels.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                                  21
Annex 1. Project Development Objectives
                                                                         Original Target Values                             Actual Value Achieved at
                                                                                                      Formally Revised
           Indicator                  Baseline Value                        (from approval                                   Completion or Target
                                                                                                       Target Values
                                                                              documents)                                             Years

Indicator 1:           Travel times decreased on Airport expressway (minute)
Value
                                                                       Reduced to 84% of baseline                           Reduced to 80% of baseline
(quantitative or                              9
                                                                            (7.56 minutes)                                        (7.2 minutes)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               2007                                  2009                                                 2011
                        Achieved (104%)
Comments (inc. %
achievement)
                        The target value was 9 minutes for the airport expressway. The actual travel time on the airport expressway was 7.2 minutes
                          in 2011, 80% of the baseline value.
Indicator 2:           Travel times decreased on G321 (minute)
Value
                                                                             Reduced to 82%                                         No change
(quantitative or                              7
                                                                             (5.74 minutes)                                         (7 minutes)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               2007                                  2009                                                 2013
                        Not achieved
Comments (inc. %
achievement)
                        During monitoring period in 2013, there were many investment projects in Longdongbao area. The large trucks slowed down
                          the average travel time on G321.
Indicator 3:           Traffic volumes increased on the Project corridor (PCU per day)
Value
(quantitative or                            N/A                                  52,350                                               62,400
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               2007                                     2010                                              2010
                        Fully achieved (119%)
                        The target was the total traffic volume for both original airport expressway and G321 in the case of ‘without Youxiao Road’.
                          In the PAD, this is indicated as the sum of actual traffic volumes on the airport expressway and G321 in 2010, the year after
Comments (inc. %
                          Youxiao Road opened to traffic.
achievement)
                        Youxiao Road was completed and opened to traffic in February 5, 2010. The actual corridor traffic (Youxiao road, airport
                          expressway, G321) was 62,400 PCU in 2010.
                        PCU = passenger car unit.
Indicator 4:           Percent reduction of minutes travel time on a 25% sample of project rural roads
Value
(quantitative or                           100%                             Reduced by 50%                                       Reduced by 65%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               2007                                  2009                                                 2013

                                                                      22
Comments (inc. %
                            Fully achieved (130%)
achievement)

(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                                         Original Target Values                             Actual Value Achieved at
                                                                                                       Formally Revised
           Indicator                      Baseline Value                     (from approval                                  Completion or Target
                                                                                                        Target Values
                                                                               documents)                                            Years
Indicator 1:               Number of villages connected by Project roads (no.)
Value
(quantitative or                                 0                                   241                       67                     67
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                  2007                                 2012                     2012                    2013
                           • Fully achieved (100%)
Comments (inc. %
                           • During implementation, the number of rural roads was reduced from original 46 to 11.
achievement)
                           • In February 2012, the target value was formally revised to 67 villages.
Indicator 2:               Number of villages serviced by routes from Project rural bus stations (no.)
Value
(quantitative or                                 0                                   348                      118                     118
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                  2007                                 2012                     2012                    2013
                            Fully achieved (100%)
Comments (inc. %
achievement)
                            During implementation, the number of rural bus terminals was reduced from original 44 to 16.
                            In February 2012, the target value was formally revised to 118 villages.
Indicator 3:               Implementation of a new rural road maintenance system (%)
Value
(quantitative or                                0%                                                           100%                    100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                  2007                                                          2011                    2012
Comments (inc. %            Fully achieved (100%)
achievement)                A computer-based Rural Road Maintenance Management Information System was developed in 2010－2012.
Indicator 4:               Implementation of a new debt management system (%)
Value
(quantitative or                                0%                                                           100%                    100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                  2007                                                          2011                    2011
Comments (inc. %            Fully achieved (100%)
achievement)                The TA on Government Debt Management was implemented in 2009－2011.


                                                                        23
24
Annex 2. Project Outputs
                                                                          Length                                                                       Implementation
                     Name                               Location                                               Scope
                                                                           (km)                                                                    Start             End
Youxiao Road
                                        Nanming District                   7.04     Urban rapid road with 1 elevated section (1,425 meter), 3   07/18/2008       03/23/2010
                                                                                    interchanges, 1 tunnel (2 ways of 1,835 meters and 1,755
                                                                                    meters), 1 large bridge (443 meters)
Rural Roads
  1 Majiaqiao-Lufang Road               Xiuwen County                      15.60    Class IV (main road 10.807 km, access road 4.796 km）        08/20/2008       07/30/2012
  2 Zhuhua-Xiyang Road                  Xifeng County                      29.10    Class IV (main road 18.537 km, access road 10.559 km）       08/20/2009       11/14/2013
  3 Liutong-Baimao Road                 Xiuwen County                      31.91    Class IV (main road 11.27 km, access road 20.641 km）        08/20/2009       11/14/2013
  4 Liming-Chashan                      Qingzhen City                      22.49    Class IV (main road 13.847 km, access road 8.641 km）        12/28/2009       12/30/2012
  5 Weicheng-Liujidianzhan Road         Qingzhen City                      33.17    Class IV (main road 20.478 km, access road 12.695 km）       12/28/2009       12/30/2012
  6 Baiyan-Longjing Road                Qingzhen City                      25.38    Class IV (main road 15.116 km, access road 10.262 km）       12/28/2009       10/30/2012
  7 Longgang-Guaijiu Road               Kaiyang County, Wudang District    20.02    Class IV (main road 16.820 km, access road 3.200 km）        08/30/2009       10/30/2010
  8 Wudang Daqiao-Hefeng Road           Kaiyang County, Wudang District    22.93    Class IV (main road 22.927 km)                              08/30/2009       10/28/2013
  9 Guyang-Jiangshan Road               Kaiyang County, Wudang District    21.00    Class IV (main road 11.410 km, access road 9.590 km）        08/30/2009       10/24/2013
 10 Xiaohegou-Shuikou                   Xiuwen County                      36.70    Class III (main road 27.096 km, access road 9.601 km)       12/28/2009       11/14/2013
 11 Tianhetan-Gaiwu                     Huaxi District                     11.75    Class IV (main road 11.754 km)                              06/08/2012       12/26/2012
                                                       sub-total          270.05
Bus Terminals
  1 Anliu Terminal                      Qingzhen City                               Class IV (609 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       10/10/2011
  2 Maige Terminal                      Qingzhen City                               Class IV (609 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       07/20/2012
  3 Xinchang Passenger Terminal         Wudang District                             Class IV (648 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       05/20/2013
  4 Shaping Passenger Terminal          Xiuwen County                               Class IV (609 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       03/25/2012
  5 Gupu Passenger Terminal             Xiuwen County                               Class IV (648 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       04/28/2012
  6 Jiuchang Freight Terminal           Xiuwen County                               Class IV (2,591 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)           10/28/2012       05/18/2013
  7 Fengshan Passenger Terminal         Kaiyang County                              Class IV (658 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       05/20/2012
  8 Yongwen Passenger Terminal          Kaiyang County                              Class IV (585 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       07/20/2012
  9 Huali Passenger Terminal            Kaiyang County                              Class IV (658 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       08/10/2013
 10 Luwo Passenger Terminal             Xifeng County                               Class IV (459 sm, parking 1,000 sm, inspection)             10/28/2012       10/15/2013
 11 Zhongba Passenger Terminal          Qingzhen City                               Class IV (522 sm)                                           08/08/2012       12/26/2012
 12 Wangzhuang Passenger Terminal       Qingzhen City                               Class IV (492 sm)                                           08/08/2012       12/26/2012
 13 Yanglongsi Passenger Terminal       Xifeng County                               Class IV (366.66 sm)                                        08/08/2012       12/26/2012
 14 Xinpu Passenger Terminal            Wudang District                             Class IV (477.12 sm)                                        08/08/2012       12/26/2012
 15 Xiaba Passenger Terminal            Wudang District                             Class IV (394.25 sm)                                        08/08/2012       12/26/2012
 16 Pianpo Passenger Terminal           Wudang District                             Class IV (1,069.86 sm)                                      08/08/2012       12/26/2012
Capacity Development
  1 Rural Road Maintenance MIS System                                               A MIS system with hardware, GIS platform, and data          11/11/2010       10/11/2012
  2 Traffic Survey                                                                  Traffic survey in core urban areas                          12/12/2007       07/19/2008
  3 Government Debt Management TA                                                   A set of TA reports and a computer system                   04/14/2009       05/06/2011
  4 Training and Study Tour                                                         11 domestic training and 4 oversea study tours              12/10/2007       04/30/2013
Source: The GPMO



                                                                                   25
Annex 3. Training Programs and Study Tours

       (a) Domestic Study Tours
 No.                                     Subject                                 Location                      Participate Unit                   No. Trainee   Duration          Schedule
                                                                                             Kaiyang Transportation Bureau, Kaiyang County
  1    Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank loan          Fujian                                                              6         7 days         October, 2009
                                                                                             Government, GPMO
  2    Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank             Guangzhou GMDRC, GMFB, GPMO, Headquarter of Youxiao road              6         7 days           June, 2010

  3    Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank             Wulumuqi    Municipla Planning Bureau,GMFB. GPMO                      5         9 days        September, 2010

  4    SWAPs                                                                       Fujian    GPMO, GMCB                                                6         7 days         October, 2010

       Policies on resettlement of affected residents, supervision management,
  5                                                                               Wuhan      GMDRC, GMFB, GPMO, Tongyuang Company                      6         7 days           April, 2011
       implementing experiences.

  6    Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank               Xi'an     GMDRC, GMFB, GPMO, GMVB                                   6         7 days         October, 2011

  7    Enviornment supervision and enviornmental protection measures              Nanning    GMFB, GPMO                                                4         7 days           May, 2012
                                                                                             GMDRC, GMFB, GPMO, Xiuwen Transportation
  8    Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank loan          Anhui                                                               7         7 days           July, 2012
                                                                                             Bureau

  9    Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank loan         Xinjiang   GPMO, GMFB                                                7         9 days        September, 2012

                                                                                             GPMO, GMFB, Wudang Transportation Bureau, Huanxi
 10 Management experiences on road program financed by World Bank                Liaoning                                                              7         9 days        November, 2012
                                                                                             Transportation Bureau,Xifeng Transportation Bureau
 11 English speaking and basic English grammars                                   Guiyang    GPFD,GMDRC, GMFB, GMCB, GPMO                             20        9 months   October, 2009--July, 2010
Source: The GPMO


       (b) Overseas Trainings
 No.                                      Subject                                   Location                        Participant                   No. Trainee   Duration          Schedule
       Construction management and mantainance of transportation infrastructure, Australia &
  1                                                                                            GPDRC, GMFB, GPMO                                       6         6 days        September, 2012
       the government's financing plan for infrastructure and the debt management New Zealand
                                                                                               Guizhou Municipal Auditing Department, GMCB,
  2    Construction management and mantainance of transportation infrastructure      Finland                                                           6         6 days         October, 2012
                                                                                               GMDRC, GPMO
       Construction management, mantainance of inter-city highway, and
  3                                                                                 America GMDRC, GMCB, GMFB, GPMO                                    6         6 days        November, 2012
       expressway and the public transporation management
       Local public transportation, the combination of road construction and road
  4                                                                                Switzerland GPDRC, GPFD, GMCB, GMFB                                 6         6 days           April, 2013
       network, and the road mantainance
Source: The GPMO




                                                                                                  26
Annex 4. Project Costs, Financing, and Loan Disbursement

   (a) Cost Comparison (USD million)
                                                          At Appraisal                            At Actual
                      Item
                                             Government   World Bank     Total      Government   World Bank   Total
     A. Base Cost
     I. Youxiao road                              90.37         52.73      143.10       199.07        58.76     257.83
         Civil Works                              54.00         39.38       93.38       104.40        50.79     155.20
         Traffic Facilities and Tunnel M&E            -         11.53       11.53         3.44         7.97      11.41
         Construction Supervision                     -          1.82        1.82         2.44            -       2.44
         Land Acquisition and Resettlement        22.07             -       22.07        72.95            -      72.95
         Other                                    14.30             -       14.30        15.83            -      15.83
     II. Rural Transport                          98.65         36.82      135.47        61.63        38.32      99.95
         Civil Works                              63.39         36.82      100.21        27.71        38.32      66.03
         Construction Supervision                  2.99             -        2.99         0.90            -       0.90
         Land Acquisition and Resettlement        27.62             -       27.62        33.03            -      33.03
         Other                                     4.65             -        4.65            -            -          -
     III. Institutional Development                   -          1.20        1.20            -         1.07       1.07
         Rural Road Maintenance System                -          0.35        0.35            -         0.30       0.30
         Traffic Survey                               -          0.25        0.25            -         0.30       0.30
         Debt Management System                       -          0.10        0.10            -         0.22       0.22
         Training                                     -          0.50        0.50            -         0.24       0.24
                     Sub-total (A)               189.02         90.75      279.77       260.70        98.15     358.85
     B. Contingencies                             17.48             -       17.48            -
     C. Financial Charges                          7.92          9.25       17.17            -         1.85       1.85
         Interest During Construction              7.92          9.00       16.92            -         1.60       1.60
         Front-end Fee                                -          0.25        0.25            -         0.25       0.25
                    Total (A+B+C)                214.42        100.00      314.42       260.70       100.00     360.70
               Project Financing                  68.2%         31.8%     100.0%         72.3%       27.7%     100.0%
      Source: The World Bank PAD and the GPMO




                                                                  27
(b) Loan Proceeds Allocation and Disbursement (USD)
                                          In Original Loan Agreement          Last Revision**
                                                                                                       Increased /
                Category                                 Percentage to                 Percentage to                  Disbursed
                                           Allocation                    Allocation                    Decreased
                                                          be financed                    be financed
   (1) Civil works:
       (a) under Part A of the Project        39,380,000          60%     50,797,653            60%      11,417,653    50,797,653
       (b) under Part B of the Project        36,820,000          60%     34,420,000           100%     (2,400,000)    34,420,000
       (c) under Part B, for Part B-2*                                     3,900,000           100%       3,900,000     3,900,000
   (2) Goods and Consultants’ services        13,350,000         100%                          100%     (5,380,000)
                                                                           7,970,000                                    7,970,000
   under Part A of the Project
   (3) Goods, consultants’ services and        1,200,000         100%                          100%       (134,542)
                                                                           1,065,458                                    1,065,458
   training under Part C of the Project
   (4) Interest                                9,000,000                   1,596,890                    (7,403,110)     1,596,890
   (5) Front-end Fee                             250,000                     250,000                              -       250,000
                    Total                    100,000,000                 100,000,000                              -   100,000,000
   * For Batch-II of the Rural Transport Component
   ** The last loan reallocation was made on December 10, 2012
   Source: the World Bank Loan Agreement and the GPMO




                                                                   28
Annex 5. Summary of Project Contracts
 Contract                                                                                                                          Procure        Review by   Contract     Contract Cost      Implementation           Actual Cost
                              Contract Description                              Contractor/Supplier/ Consultant
   No.                                                                                                                             Method           Bank       Date          (RMB)            Start     End              (RMB)
Part A: Youxiao Road
Sub-grade Works
YXE-01      Section 1 - front road segment(K0+000-K1+580)     China Railway No. 10th Group Co. Ltd.                               ICB/Works         Prior     08/01/2008      179,734,067   07/01/2008   03/01/2010      184,881,677
YXE-02      Section 2 - tunnel segment(k1+580-K4+740)         China Railway ERJU Corporation                                      ICB/Works         Prior     08/01/2008      391,039,447   07/01/2008   03/01/2010      474,828,525
YXE-03      Section 3 - latter road segment(K4+740-K7+040)    China Railway No. 8th Group Co. Ltd.                                ICB/Works         Prior     08/01/2008      108,793,247   07/01/2008   03/01/2010      150,186,283
Pavement Works
YXE-04      Pavement and Landscaping greening                 JV of Shandong Taincheng Municipal Road Engineering Co. Ltd.       NCB/Works          Prior     06/01/2009      108,013,661   06/01/2009   12/31/2009      112,025,006
Ancillary Works
YXE-05      Tunnel M&E and Fire Protection Facilities         Jiangsu Zhiyun Science & Tech Development Co. Ltd.                  NCB/S&I           Prior     07/01/2009       54,205,476   07/01/2009   12/31/2009       69,560,926
YXE-06      Traffic Facilities                                Sichuan Neijiang Road Traffic Facility Co. Ltd.                    NCB/Works          Prior     07/01/2009        5,004,005   07/01/2009   12/31/2009        8,618,155
YXE-07      Greening and Drainage                             Guiyang Longdongbao Development Office                             NCB/Works          Prior     07/01/2010        5,004,006   07/01/2010   12/31/2010       13,857,875
Construction Supervision
YXE-09      Construction Supervision and Management for YXE   Guiyang Transport Inspection Station                                   NBF            Prior     08/01/2008       12,000,000   08/01/2008   12/31/2009       13,640,378
YXE-10      Tunnel M&E and fire protection supervision        Xián Golden Road Communication Eng.&Tech Development Co. Ltd.          CQS            Prior     07/01/2009        1,263,735   07/01/2009   12/31/2009        1,263,735
Part B: Rural Transport
Civil Works
PR11        Rural Roads                                       China Kairui International Economic Cooperation Co. Ltd.           NCB/Works          Prior     04/15/2009       85,791,557   08/20/2009   11/15/2013       88,578,108
PR12        Rural Roads                                       Northeast Junhui Road&Bridge Group Co.                             NCB/Works          Prior     04/15/2009       75,598,244   12/28/2009   11/15/2013       99,461,694
PR13        Rural Roads                                       Henan Zhongyuan Water Conservancy and Engineering Group Co. Ltd.   NCB/Works          Prior     04/22/2009       59,825,226   08/30/2009   11/15/2013       70,505,716
PR14        Rural Roads                                       Sichuan Guanjiao Road&Bridge Co. Ltd.                              NCB/Works          Prior     04/15/2009       70,459,161   12/28/2009   11/15/2013       92,091,098
PR21        Rural Roads                                       Sichuan Xinxing Construction Group Co. Ltd.                        NCB/Works          Prior     05/28/2012       17,494,162   06/08/2012   12/26/2012       17,253,634
PB1         Batch-I (10 bus terminals)                        No.1 Construction Engineering Co. of Guizhou Jiangong Group        NCB/Works          Prior     06/01/2012       14,245,732   06/01/2012   10/'01/2012      20,151,237
PB2         Batch-II (6 bus terminals)                        No.6 Construction Engineering Co. of Guizhou Jiangong Group        NCB/Works          Post      07/26/2012       11,527,498   08/08/2012   12/31/2012       14,534,580
Construction Supervision
B8          Road Construction Supervision (SHJL1)             Guizhou Lutong Road Engineering Supervision Co. Ltd.               Public bidding     Prior     06/01/2009        1,283,282   06/01/2009   11/15/2013        2,232,908
            Road Construction Supervision (SHJL2)             Guizhou Transport Supervision Station                              Public bidding     Prior     08/01/2009        1,254,088   08/01/2009   11/15/2013        1,974,330
            Road Construction Supervision (10 terminals)      Guizhoou Zhongyi Supervision Consulting Co. Ltd.                   Public bidding     Prior     11/14/2008          300,000   11/14/2008   11/16/2013          263,076
                                                              Guizhou Yujian Engineering Consulting Co, Ltd.                     Public bidding     Prior     08/20/2012          299,666   08/08/2012   12/31/2012          281,446
                                                              Guizhou Transport Supervision Station                              Public bidding     Prior     05/07/2012          420,000   06/08/2012   12/26/2012          401,126
Part C: Institutional Development
C1         Traffic Survey                                     JV: Dalian Maritime University & Guizhou University                    QBS            Prior                         800,000   12/11/2007   12/15/2008     1,842,115
C2-1       Rural Road Maintenance System - Consulting         Beijing SuperMap Company                                               CQS            Prior      08/01/11           384,300   08/01/2011   09/01/2012       696,495
C2-2       Rural Road Maintenance System - Equipment          Guiyang Jinyueda Office Equipment Co.                                  CQS            Prior      07/01/12           696,500   07/01/2012   08/01/2012       800,000
C2-4       Rural Road Maintenance System - Data Collection    Guiyang Road & Bridge Design Institute                                 CQS            Prior      08/01/11           147,600   08/01/2011   12/01/2011       384,300
C2-5       Rural Road Maintenance System - Method Study       Fang Qin (individual)                                                  CQS            Prior      10/01/11           250,000   09/01/2011   03/01/2012       147,572
C3-1       Government Debt Management System - Consulting     Guiyang Economic Research Association                                  NBF            Prior      03/01/11           798,900   10/01/2009   05/06/2011       465,100
C3-2       Government Debt Management System - Equipment      Guizhou Tiandi Sci&Tech Industrial Co.                               Shopping         Prior                             -     11/01/2011   08/01/2011       798,930
C4-2       Training and Study Tour - Oversea                  Sinofinland Huineng Sci&Tech (BJ) Co.                                  CQS            Prior      04/01/12               -      04/01/12    04/30/2013     1,122,440
ICB = international competitive bidding, NCB = national competitive bidding, QBS = quality-based selection, CQS = consultant’s qualification selection
Source: The GPMO




                                                                                                                     29
Annex 6. Status of Loan Covenants

  Loan/Project                                                                                Date
                                                                     Date Due
   Agreement               Description of Covenant                               Status     Complied
                                                                    (dd/mm/yy)
   Reference                                                                              (dd/mm/yy)
Loan              The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the       15 FEB 09     CD      04 MAR 09
Agreement,        progress of the Project and prepare Project       15 AUG 09      C       13 AUG 09
Schedule 2,       Reports in accordance with the provisions of      15 FEB 10      C       10 FEB 10
Section II. A.1   Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
                                                                    15 AGU 10      C        9 AUG 10
& A.2 and         on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Project           annex to Schedule 1 to the Project                15 FEB 11      C       15 FEB 11
Agreement         Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover        15 AGU 11      C       11 AUG 11
Schedule 1,       a six month calendar period in each year that     15 FEB 12      C        9 FEB 12
Section II, A.1   is from January through June and from July
                                                                    15 AUG 12      C       10 AUG 12
                  through December, and shall be furnished to
                  the Bank not later than 45 days after the end     15 FEB 13      C        7 FEB 13
                  of the period covered by such report.             15 AUG 13      C        6 AUG 13
                  Without limitation on the provisions of Part
                  A.1 of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
                  the Project Implementing Entity to prepare
                  and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
                  Report, not later than forty-five (45) days
                  after the end of each calendar semester,
                  interim unaudited financial reports for the
                  Project covering the semester, in form and
                  substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Loan              For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the           30 JUN 14    NYD        NYD
Agreement,        General Conditions, the report on the
Schedule 2,       execution of the Project and related plan
Section II. A.3   required pursuant to that Section shall be
and Project       furnished to the Bank not later than six
Agreement         months after the Closing Date.
Schedule 2,
Section II. A.2

Loan              The Borrower shall have its Financial             30 JUN 09      C      30 JUN 09
Agreement,        Statements audited in accordance with the         30 JUN 10     C       30 JUN 10
Schedule 2,       provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
                                                                    30 JUN 11     C       30 JUN 11
Section II. B.2   Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
and Project       Statements shall cover the period of one          30 JUN 12     C       30 JUN 12
Agreement         fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited          30 JUN 13     C       30 JUN 13
Schedule 2.       Financial Statements for each such period         30 JUN 14    NYD        NYD
Section II. B.4   shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
                  six months after the end of such period.

C=Complied with, CP=Partially complied with, NYD=Not yet due, OG=On-going,
CD=Complied with after delay, NC=Not complied with
Source: The World Bank ICR task team




                                                   30
Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
           Names                    Title               Unit
                                                                   Specialty
 Lending
   John Scales            Task Team Leader /           EASTE
                          Sr.Transport Specialist
   Syed Ahmed             Lead Counsel                 LEGEA
   Carlos Richardo        Lean Counsel                 LEGEA
   Escudero
   Edward Dotson (Id.)    Lead Transport Specialist  EASTE
   Graham Smith (Id.)     Lead Transport Specialist  EASTE
   Wenlai Zhang           Transport Specialist       EASTE
   Chunlin Zhang (Prep)   Lead Private Sector        EASPR
                          Development Specialist
   Kek Choo chung (Id.)   Transport Specialist      Consultant
   Jiangyan Wang          Transport Planning        Consultant
                          Specialist
   Jian Xie               Urban Planning Specialist  EASRE
   Setty Pendakur         Rural Transport Policy
                                                    Consultant
   (Id./Prep.)            Specialist
   Wen Pan (Id./Prep)     Rural Road Design
                                                    Consultant
                          Specialist
   Greg Wood              Rural Transport Policy
                                                    Consultant
                          Specialist
   Mei Wang               Sr. Economist              EASPR
   Ning Wu                Financial Analyst         Consultant
   Min Zhao               Economist                  EASRE
   Peishen Wang           Environment Specialist     EASSO
   Zhefu Liu              Sr. Social Development EAPCO/Cons
                          Specialist                  ultant
   Hongkun Yang           Procurement Specialist
                                                     EAPCO
   (Id./Prep.)
   Xiaoping Li            Sr. Procurement Specialist   EAPCO
   Yi Geng                Financial Management
                                                       LOAG1
                          Specialist
   Haiyan Wang            Disbursement Specialist      EACCF
   Xin Chen (Id./Prep.)   Program Assistant            EACCF
   Xuan Peng              Team Assistant               EACCF
   Mara Warwick           Peer Reviewer
                                                       EASUR
   (PCN/PAD)
   John Hine (PCN)        Peer Reviewer                ETWTR
   Paul Amos (PCN/PAD)    Peer Reviewer                ETWTR
   Alan Piazza (PCN)      Peer Reviewer                EASRE



                                            31
Id. = identification phase, Prep = Preparation phase, PCN = Project concept note phase, PAD = Project
appraisal document phase


Supervision/ICR
Bank Staff
   Kishor Uprety                Sr. Counsel                     LEGAM
   Limei Sun                    Program Assistant               EACCF
   Jingrong He                  Procurement Specialist          EASR2
                                Sr. Financial
   Yi Geng                                                      EASFM
                                Management Specialist
   Holly Krambeck               Transport Economist              EASIN
                                Social Development
   Jun Zeng                                                      EASCS
                                Specialist
  Ning Yang                     Environmental Specialist         EASCS
  Xiaoke Zhai                   Sr. Transport. Spec.             EASCS
  Wenlai Zhang                  Transport Specialist             EASCS
  Yunlong Liu                   Procurement Specialist
  Yu Shang                      Team Assistant                   EACCF
Non-Bank Staff
                            Project Management
   Baoru Song                                                  Consultant
                            Specialist
   Chuntai Zhang            Economist Specialist               Consultant
                            Rural Road Maintenance
   Serge Cartier van Dissel                                    Consultant
                            Specialist




                                                 32
      (b) Bank Missions
                           Mission                             Date          Mission Leader
  1     Fact-finding Mission                         Jan. 27-29, 2005        Edward Dotson
  2     Pre-identification Mission                   June 20-22, 2005         John Scales
  3     Identification Mission                       July 17-23, 2005         John Scales
  4     Supplementary Identification Mission         Dec. 19-21, 2005         John Scales
  5     Supplementary Identification Mission         Feb. 8-10,2006           John Scales
  6     Preparation Mission                          April 23-28, 2006        John Scales
  7     Pre-appraisal Mission                        Aug. 21-30, 2006         John Scales
                                                     Jan. 29-Feb.2, 2007
  8     Appraisal Mission                                                      John Scales
                                                     Mar. 1 & 2, 2007
  9     Appraisal Follow-up Mission                  Apr. 10, 2007             John Scales
 10     Supplementary appraisal Follow-up Mission    July 2-4, 2007            John Scales
 11     Project Launch Mission                       July 16-18, 2008          John Scales
 12     Implementation Mission                       March 4-6, 2009           John Scales
 13     Implementation Mission                       Sept. 8-11, 2009          John Scales
 14     Implementation Mission                       Mar.22-25, 2010          Wenlai Zhang
 15     Implementation Mission                       September 13-17, 2010    Wenlai Zhang
 16     Implementation Mission                       March28 –Apr 1 2011      Wenlai Zhang
 17     Implementation Mission                       September 26-30, 2011    Wenlai Zhang
 18     Implementation Mission                       March 26-30,2012         Wenlai Zhang
        Implementation Mission (combined with
 19                                                  June 11-15,2012          Wenlai Zhang
        New project Identification Mission)
        Implementation Mission (combined with
 20                                                  October 8-12,2012        Wenlai Zhang
        New project Preparation Mission)
 21     Implementation Mission                       February 19-22,2013     Holly Krambeck
 22     Implementation Mission                       September 9-13, 2013    Holly Krambeck
 23     ICR Mission                                  February 17-21,2014     Holly Krambeck
Source: The World Bank ICR task team




                                                33
Annex 8. Economic Analysis

Introduction

For reassessing the project efficiency, economic reevaluation of the project was conducted by the
World Bank ICR task team. A traffic analysis was fulfilled by using the actual traffic counts
provided by the GPMO and by comparing them with appraisal stage estimates. The traffic
forecast for future years was revised accordingly. The economic reevaluation assumed that the
vehicles on the project roads (Youxiao Road and the project rural roads) could drive at higher
speeds with lower vehicle operating costs (VOC) and less travel time. Economic benefits were
calculated by comparing the “with-project” and “without-project” cases. Consequently, the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was calculated for the whole project, as well as for
Youxiao Road and the rural roads separately.

Traffic Analysis and Forecast

Since commencement of service in 2010, the traffic on Youxiao Road increased significantly.
Due to a shorter distance, better road condition, higher speeds, and no toll, most of the traffic on
the existing airport expressway was diverted to the Youxiao Road. In addition, the opening of
Youxiao Road also stimulated and facilitated the fast socioeconomic development in
Longdongbao area. According to the traffic counts provided by the GPMO, the daily traffic on
Youxiao Road reached 36,850 PCU in 2011, which was much higher than what was forecasted at
appraisal (17,457 PCU). Amongst the traffic, about 94 percent were passenger cars, which were
primarily users traveling to/from the airport. However, the actual daily traffic on the project rural
roads averaged 270 PCU in 2013, which was less than what forecasted at appraisal. 1According to
the existing traffic and the traffic demand development in the project areas, the future traffic
increase rates were adjusted and the traffic forecast was revised accordingly. It was assumed that
the traffic increase rates would be 5.8 percent per year in 2014–2015, 3.9 percent per year in
2016–2020, and 2.0 percent in 2021 and onwards for Youxiao Road; and 8.8 percent per year in
2014–2015, 5.3 percent per year in 2016–2020, and 3.6 percent in 2021 and onwards for the rural
roads. The following table is the traffic forecast results.

            Table 8.1: Revised Traffic Forecast for the Youxiao Road (AADT, PCU)
                                                    Small       Medium        Large
            Year          Car           Bus                                                 Total
                                                    Truck        Truck        Truck
            2013        37,000        1,087          524          357          232         39,200
            2015        41,573        1,153          545          371          241         43,884
            2020        50,580        1,273          602          410          266         53,132
            2030        61,657        1,552          734          500          325         64,767
         AADT = annual average daily traffic, PCU = passenger car unit
         Source: the World Bank ICR task team




1
    The PAD did not provide the traffic forecast for the rural roads, but mentioned that the current traffic
    level for the project rural roads was in the range of 86–656 ADT.

                                                      34
           Table 8.2: Revised Traffic Forecast for the Road Roads (AADT, PCU)
                                               Small      Medium        Large
           Year         Car         Bus                                          Total
                                               Truck       Truck        Truck
           2013         60           10         30           70         100       270
           2015         79           12         33           85         110       319
           2020         128          18         38          108         122       414
           2030         229          32         47          132         148       588
        AADT = annual average daily traffic, PCU = passenger car unit
        Source: World Bank ICR task team

Project Costs and Benefits

The actual project capital costs were used in the economic reevaluation. In terms of RMB, the
actual project capital costs were much higher than what was estimated at appraisal, about 42
percent higher for Youxiao Road and 91 percent higher for the Rural Transport Component (unit
cost). The maintenance costs for the project roads were estimated based on the information
provided by Guiyang Municipal Urban Administration Bureau and Guiyang Municipal Road
Division. It was estimated that the routine maintenance costs would be RMB3.9 million per year
for Youxiao Road (entire road of 7.04 kilometers) and RMB50,000 per year per kilometer for the
rural roads. The periodic maintenance was assumed to occur every five years at the costs of
RMB35.0 million for Youxiao Road and RMB0.4 million per kilometer for the rural roads. In the
economic reevaluation, all aforementioned capital costs and maintenance costs were converted
into economic costs by using the conversion factor (0.908) adopted from the PAD.

The main sources of the economic benefits were estimated by comparing the “with-project” and
“without-project” cases, including: (i) savings in VOC due to better road condition and shorter
distance; (ii) savings in passenger travel time costs due to faster driving speed on the project
roads; and (iii) other non-quantified benefits. The VOC savings were calculated using the latest
unit VOC data adopted from other similar projects in China. For Youxiao Road, the VOC savings
in RMB for a whole journey were estimated at 1.46 for car, 8.02 for bus, 2.16 for small truck,
4.65 for medium truck, and 6.57 for heavy truck. For the rural roads, the VOC savings in RMB
per vehicle-kilometer were estimated at 0.39 for car, 1.59 for bus, 0.48 for small truck, 1.01 for
medium truck, and 1.86 for large truck. Average passenger vehicle speeds were assumed to be 60
kilometers per hour on Youxiao Road and 40–50 kilometers per hour on the rural roads. The
passengers’ travel time cost savings were calculated by different types of passenger vehicles (car
and bus). The passenger time cost was derived from the GDP per capita of Guiyang Municipality
in 2013. Other factors taken into account in the calculation for passenger time cost savings
included average vehicle loads, percentage of work-related trips, time costs by different road
users, and travel speeds for different types of passenger vehicles. Due to data unavailability, 10
percent was added to the VOC and time cost savings to reflect other benefits such as economic
development in the project area, poverty reduction, less accident loss, road maintenance cost
savings, etc.

Economic Reevaluation

Based on the aforementioned assumptions and estimations of the economic costs and benefits, the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was recalculated at 15.8 percent for the whole project
(16.3 percent for Youxiao Road and 14.1 percent for the rural roads). By comparing with that at
appraisal, the EIRR for Youxiao Road was slightly higher than that at appraisal (15.9 percent),

                                                 35
which was due to a combination of higher capital cost and higher traffic volumes. The EIRR for
the rural roads was lower than that at appraisal (18.3 percent), which was mainly caused by
higher capital cost and lower traffic volume. However, the EIRRs for the whole project as well as
for each component were higher than the World Bank recommended discount rate. Therefore, the
project was still considered economically viable.

The cash flows of the EIRR calculations are presented in Table 8.4–8.6.

The EIRRs were subjected to sensitivity analysis to test different scenarios of the costs and
benefits. The sensitivity analysis results in Table 8.3 showed that the project continues to be
economically viable for all tested scenarios. If a 20 percent maintenance cost increase were to be
combined with a 20 percent benefit reduction, the EIRR would be 12.3 percent for the whole
project. The sensitivity analysis also showed that changes in benefits would have a greater impact
on the EIRR compared to changes in costs. Therefore, the governments should keep the roads in
good condition to continue attracting more traffic.

                       Table 8.3: Sensitivity Test for the Whole Project
                                        (RMB million)
        Scenarios                                             EIRR (%)              ENPV
       Base Case                                                 15.8%              1,018.1
       Sensitivity Tests
       1 Maintenance Cost 10% Higher                              15.7                1,001.9
       2 Maintenance Cost 20% Higher                              15.6                 985.6
       3 Benefits 10% Lower                                       14.1                 579.6
       4 Benefits 20% Lower                                       12.5                 141.1
       5 Benefits 10% Higher                                      17.3                1,456.7
       6 Benefits 20% Higher                                      18.9                1,895.2
       7 O&M 10% Higher & Benefits 10% Lower                      14.1                 563.3
       8 O&M Cost 20% Higher & Benefits 20% Lower                 12.3                 108.5
      Note: EIRR = economic internal rate of return, ENPV = economic net present value,
      O&M = operation and maintenance
      Source: the World Bank ICR task team




                                                 36
              Table 8.4: Economic Reevaluation of the Whole Project
                                 (RMB million)
                      Costs                                Benefits                      Net
 year                                                                                              ENPV
          Capital    Maintain   Total     VOC        Time Cost Others       Total      Benefit
 2008       160.6                 160.6                                                   -160.6    -316.9
 2009       528.1                 528.1                                                   -528.1    -930.7
 2010       769.0         1.8     770.8     16.1        107.3       12.3       135.7      -635.1    -999.3
 2011       246.3         3.6     249.9     29.6        159.2       20.1       208.8       -41.1     -57.7
 2012       166.0         3.7     169.7     39.9        174.6       24.6       239.0        69.3      86.9
 2013       110.7         9.9     120.6     50.7        192.0       29.2       271.9       151.3     169.4
 2014                    16.2      16.2     58.6        207.3       32.8       298.7       282.5     282.5
 2015                    16.2      16.2     62.3        221.4       35.2       319.0       302.7     270.3
 2016        31.8        16.7      48.5     64.7        231.7       36.9       333.3       284.8     227.0
 2017        98.1        16.1     114.1     67.1        242.5       38.8       348.3       234.2     166.7
 2018                    16.5      16.5     69.6        254.0       40.7       364.3       347.7     221.0
 2019                    17.0      17.0     72.3        266.1       42.8       381.1       364.1     206.6
 2020                    17.0      17.0     75.1        278.9       44.9       399.0       382.0     193.5
 2021        31.8        17.5      49.3     76.9        286.6       46.3       409.9       360.6     163.1
 2022        98.1        16.1     114.1     78.8        294.6       47.8       421.2       307.0     124.0
 2023                    16.5      16.5     80.7        302.9       49.3       432.8       416.3     150.1
 2024                    17.0      17.0     82.7        311.4       50.8       445.0       427.9     137.8
 2025                    17.0      17.0     84.7        320.3       52.5       457.5       440.5     126.6
 2026        31.8        17.5      49.3     86.9        329.6       54.2       470.6       421.3     108.1
 2027        98.1        16.1     114.1     89.0        339.1       55.9       484.1       370.0      84.8
 2028                    16.5      16.5     91.3        349.1       57.8       498.2       481.6      98.5
 2029                    17.0      17.0     93.6        359.5       59.7       512.8       495.7      90.6
 2030                    17.0      17.0     96.0        370.2       61.7       527.9       511.0      83.3
 2031         31.8       17.5      49.3     98.5        381.4       63.8       543.7       494.4      72.0
 2032         98.1       16.1     114.1    101.0        393.1       66.0       560.1       446.0      58.0
 2032       -990.3       16.5    -973.8    103.7        405.2       68.3       577.2     1,551.0     201.7
                                                           Economic Net Present Value (ENPV):      1,018.1
                                                        Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):   15.8%
                                                                                  Discount Rate:      12%

Source: The World Bank ICR task team




                                                37
              Table 8.5: Economic Reevaluation of the Youxiao Road
                                 (RMB million)
                      Costs                                Benefits                      Net
 year                                                                                              ENPV
          Capital    Maintain   Total     VOC        Time Cost Others       Total      Benefit
 2008       160.6                 160.6                                                   -160.6    -316.9
 2009       528.1                 528.1                                                   -528.1    -930.7
 2010       713.7         1.8     715.5    16.1         107.3       12.3       135.7      -579.7    -912.2
 2011        25.0         3.6      28.6    23.0         153.3       17.6       193.9       165.3     232.3
 2012                     3.7       3.7    23.5         159.8       18.3       201.7       198.0     248.3
 2013                     3.8       3.8    24.5         168.4       19.3       212.2       208.4     233.4
 2014                     3.9       3.9    25.8         177.9       20.4       224.0       220.1     220.1
 2015                     3.6       3.6    27.2         187.9       21.5       236.6       233.0     208.0
 2016        31.8         3.7      35.5    28.2         195.0       22.3       245.4       210.0     167.4
 2017                     3.8       3.8    29.2         202.3       23.1       254.6       250.8     178.5
 2018                     3.9       3.9    30.3         209.9       24.0       264.2       260.3     165.4
 2019                     4.0       4.0    31.4         217.9       24.9       274.1       270.1     153.3
 2020                     3.6       3.6    32.5         226.1       25.9       284.4       280.9     142.3
 2021        31.8         3.7      35.5    33.2         230.6       26.4       290.1       254.7     115.2
 2022                     3.8       3.8    33.8         235.2       26.9       295.9       292.1     118.0
 2023                     3.9       3.9    34.5         239.9       27.4       301.9       297.9     107.4
 2024                     4.0       4.0    35.2         244.7       28.0       307.9       303.9      97.8
 2025                     3.6       3.6    35.9         249.6       28.6       314.1       310.5      89.3
 2026        31.8         3.7      35.5    36.6         254.6       29.1       320.3       284.9      73.1
 2027                     3.8       3.8    37.3         259.7       29.7       326.7       322.9      74.0
 2028                     3.9       3.9    38.1         264.9       30.3       333.3       329.4      67.4
 2029                     4.0       4.0    38.8         270.2       30.9       339.9       335.9      61.4
 2030                     3.6       3.6    39.6         275.6       31.5       346.7       343.1      56.0
 2031        31.8         3.7      35.5    40.4         281.1       32.2       353.7       318.2      46.3
 2032                     3.8       3.8    41.2         286.7       32.8       360.7       356.9      46.4
 2032       -713.7        3.9    -709.7    42.0         292.5       33.5       368.0     1,077.7     140.1
                                                            Economic Net Present Value (ENPV):       881.6
                                                        Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):    16.3%
                                                                                  Discount Rate:      12%

Source: The World Bank ICR task team




                                                38
                Table 8.6: Economic Reevaluation of the Rural Roads
                                  (RMB million)
                      Costs                                Benefits                      Net
 year                                                                                              ENPV
          Capital    Maintain   Total     VOC        Time Cost Others       Total      Benefit
 2008                               -                                                        -         -
 2009                               -                                                        -         -
 2010         55.3                 55.3                                                    -55.3     -87.1
 2011        221.3                221.3     6.6           5.9        2.5        14.9      -206.4    -290.0
 2012        166.0                166.0    16.4          14.7        6.2        37.3      -128.7    -161.4
 2013        110.7        6.1     116.8    26.2          23.6       10.0        59.7       -57.1     -63.9
 2014                    12.3      12.3    32.8          29.4       12.4        74.7        62.4      62.4
 2015                    12.6      12.6    35.2          33.5       13.7        82.4        69.8      62.3
 2016                    13.0      13.0    36.5          36.7       14.6        87.8        74.8      59.6
 2017         98.1       12.3     110.3    37.9          40.2       15.6        93.7       -16.6     -11.8
 2018                    12.6      12.6    39.4          44.0       16.7       100.1        87.5      55.6
 2019                    13.0      13.0    40.9          48.2       17.8       107.0        94.0      53.3
 2020                    13.4      13.4    42.6          52.8       19.1       114.5       101.1      51.2
 2021                    13.8      13.8    43.8          56.0       20.0       119.7       105.9      47.9
 2022         98.1       12.3     110.3    45.0          59.4       20.9       125.2        14.9       6.0
 2023                    12.6      12.6    46.2          62.9       21.8       131.0       118.4      42.7
 2024                    13.0      13.0    47.5          66.7       22.8       137.1       124.1      39.9
 2025                    13.4      13.4    48.9          70.7       23.9       143.5       130.1      37.4
 2026                    13.8      13.8    50.2          75.0       25.0       150.2       136.4      35.0
 2027         98.1       12.3     110.3    51.7          79.5       26.2       157.4        47.1      10.8
 2028                    12.6      12.6    53.2          84.2       27.5       164.9       152.3      31.2
 2029                    13.0      13.0    54.8          89.3       28.8       172.8       159.8      29.2
 2030                    13.4      13.4    56.4          94.6       30.2       181.2       167.8      27.4
 2031                    13.8      13.8    58.1         100.3       31.7       190.0       176.2      25.7
 2032         98.1       12.3     110.3    59.8         106.3       33.2       199.4        89.0      11.6
 2032       -276.7       12.6    -264.0    61.6         112.7       34.9       209.2       473.2      61.5
                                                           Economic Net Present Value (ENPV):        136.6
                                                        Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):    14.1%
                                                                                  Discount Rate:      12%

Source: the World Bank ICR task team




                                                39
Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

On December 2, 2013, the World Bank received the Borrower’s Implementation Completion and
Results (ICR) Report for the Guiyang Transport Project (the project) from the Guiyang Project
Management Office (GPMO). 1 The Borrower’s ICR report was prepared in Chinese and generally
in good quality. The Borrower’s ICR report covered many aspects of the project preparation,
implementation, and sustainability, which is in the format suggested by the Bank’s task team.
However, some key data were not attached, like the project cost table and summary of
procurement packages, and the quantitative analysis was rather cursory. Some useful information
in the Borrower’s ICR report was adopted in the Bank’s ICR. Following are the summaries of the
lessons learnt and recommendations from the Borrower’s ICR.

Lesson Learnt

     •   The Borrower’s ICR provided lesson learnt from the project implementation and
         operation:

     •   Project preparation and design- The governments at both municipal and
         district/county levels paid close attention to the project, ensured timely
         availability of the counterpart funds, and provided significant support to the land
         acquisition and resettlement needs. The project design used new design concepts
         and the consulting service was of good quality. The project design also
         incorporated the comments from all stakeholders and the alternative analysis was
         thorough.
     •   Financial and contract management- The project applied the “Project
         Management Manual” throughout the project implementation, which was
         prepared under the Bank’s guidelines. It well regulated the project implementation
         and ensured efficient implementation of the project. Due to its success, this
         manual was adopted by other similar projects in Guiyang. The counterpart fund
         management for Batch-II of the Rural Transport Component also ensured the
         timely implementation of the bus terminals and rural roads, which should adopt
         by other similar projects.
     •   Loan proceed utilization- A clear procedure for the loan proceeds utilization and
         reimbursement was used by the project implementation team, which effectively
         reduced the financial management cost. For using the loan proceeds, the
         government, through the Ministry of Finance, applied for loan reallocations three
         times, which were approved by the World Bank.
     •   Environmental compliance- Project implementation paid adequate attention to the
         environmental compliance, especially to the forest at the tunnel construction site
         of Youxiao Road. For the rural roads, special attention was paid to the laborer
         camps, quarries, waste materials deposit sites, etc. The contractors also tried to



1
    The GPMO. November 2013. The Borrower’s Implementation Completion and Results Report for the
    World Bank financed Guiyang Transport Project (Loan 4881-CHA).

                                                40
    rent houses from local residents for minimizing negative impacts to the
    environment.
•   Rural road maintenance- The TA on the rural road maintenance MIS provided a
    GIS-based computer tool to assist the decision making for the rural road
    maintenance in Guiyang. This system introduced a new concept and approach for
    rural road maintenance planning to consider multiple socioeconomic factors while
    developing a rural maintenance plan. Upon completion, more than 30 staff
    members at the district/county level were trained to use the system. However, this
    system needs to be enhanced and further promulgated.
•   Bus terminal operations- Under the project, 16 rural bus terminals were
    constructed, which were well designed by considering the local culture and
    equipped with facilities for disabled people and children. However, these bus
    terminals are currently not well operated and maintained due mainly to minimal
    traffic and improper operational arrangements. This issue must still be resolved.
•   Overloaded truck control and accident management- Some rural roads constructed
    under the project near mines and/or industrial zones have contributed to
    facilitating local economic development. However, some roads have been
    damaged by the large, especially overloaded, trucks. The government must
    enhance the truck load controls. In the meantime, the traffic management also
    needs to be enforced, especially in regards to speeding vehicles. In future similar
    projects, adequate traffic management facilities should be designed and installed.

•   Recommendations

•   Based on the experiences of implementing the project, it was recommended that
    the governments and the World Bank may place greater attention on the following
    aspects of future urban and rural transport projects:

•   Construction of more connection roads between city centers and satellite towns-
    The experience of constructing and operating Youxiao Road proved that such
    connecting roads may effectively and efficiently improve the regional transport
    condition, stimulate the socioeconomic development along the roads, and bring
    substantial employment opportunities to the local people.
•   Adopting or developing a computer-based information system for project
    planning, monitoring and management- Such computer-based information system
    may efficiently monitor and manage the project progress, financial control, land
    acquisition and resettlement, construction safety, environmental protection. It also
    may timely disclose the project information though the Internet.
•   Designing and implementing more technical assistance programs- Such technical
    assistance programs may assist with innovative development in Guiyang
    Municipality and provide supporting theories to advance innovative development.
•   Increasing number of trainees in future domestic and oversea trainings and study
    tours- Through such programs, the road administration and operational staff of
    road development in Guiyang may learn advanced concepts and technology from
    other experienced cities and countries.


                                         41
Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    42
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank. November 26, 2007. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in
   the Amount of US$100 million to the People’s Republic of China for a Guiyang Transport
   Project. China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit, Sustainable Development
   Department, East Asia and Pacific Region.
2. Loan Agreement (Guiyang Transport Project) between People’s Republic of China and
   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. dated March 18, 2008
3. Project Agreement (Guiyang Transport Project) between International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development and Guiyang Municipality. dated March 18, 2008
4. The World Bank. May 2006. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of
   China for the Period of FY2006-FY2010. approved by the Board on May 23, 2006.
5. The GPMO. December 2006. Environmental Management Plan for Guiyang World Bank
   Financed Transport Project (Sub-project 1: Youxiao Road). Guizhou Institute of
   Environmental Science and Designing.
6. Chinese Cross-Culture Consulting Center. February 2007. Social Assessment Report for
   World Bank financed Guiyang Transportation Project. Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou,
   P.R. China.
7. Chinese Cross-Culture Consulting Center. February 2007. The Indigenous People
   Development Plan for World Bank financed Guiyang Transportation Project. Sun Yat-sen
   University, Guangzhou, P.R. China.
8. The GPMO. February 2007. Resettlement Action Plan for the World Bank financed Guiyang
   Transport Project.
9. The World Bank. Implementation Status and Results for Guiyang Transport Project
   (P093963). No. 1 – 8.
10. The World Bank, mission AMs for Guiyang Transport Project (Loan No. 48810-CHA).
    August 8, 2005 – September 23, 2013.
11. The World Bank and the GPMO. Loan Disbursement Information for the Guiyang Transport
    Project (Loan 4881-CHA).
12. The World Bank. Letter to MOF. March 5, 2012. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan
    No. 4881-CHA) – Amendment to the Loan Agreement. World Bank Office, Beijing
13. The World Bank. June 9, 2010. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of
    Guiyang Transport Project, Loan No. 4881-CHA, (March 18, 2008), to the People’s Republic
    of China.
14. The World Bank. February 27, 2012. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project
    Restructuring of Guiyang Transport Project, Loan No. 4881-CHA, (March 18, 2008), to the
    People’s Republic of China.
15. The World Bank. December 10, 2012, Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project
    Restructuring of Guiyang Transport Project, Loan No. 4881-CHA, (March 18, 2008), to the
    People’s Republic of China.
16. The World Bank. Letter to MOF. June 21, 2010. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan No.
    4881-CHA) – Reallocation of Loan Proceeds. World Bank Office, Beijing



                                            43
17. The World Bank. Letter to MOF. March 5, 2012. China: Guiyang Transport Project (Loan
    No. 4881-CHA) – Amendment to Loan Proceeds. World Bank Office, Beijing
18. The World Bank. Letter to MOF. December 10, 2012. China: Guiyang Transport Project
    (Loan No. 4881-CHA) – Amendment to the Loan Agreement. World Bank Office, Beijing
19. The World Bank, PAD on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$150 million to the People’s
    Republic of China for a Guiyang Rural Road Transport Project (P129401)
20. The World Bank. October 2012. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of
    China for the Period of FY2013-FY2016. Report No. 67566-CN.
21. The GPMO. Project Progress Reports for Guiyang Transport Project (No.1 – No. 11).
22. The GPMO. Project Financial Audit Reports for Guiyang Transport Project (Project
    #093963, Loan #4881-CHA). 2008 – 2012.
23. The GPMO. November 2013. Project Implementation Completion and Result Report for
    Guiyang Transport Project (Loan 4881-CHA). (in Chinese)
24. The GPMO. February 2014. Final Report of Environmental Management for the World Bank
    financed Guiyang Transport Project. (in Chinese).
25. The GPMO. February 2014. Revised project map.
26. Wuhan University. External Resettlement Monitoring Reports (No. 1 – 4). Engineering Type
    Resettlement Research Center, Wuhan University.




                                            44
45
46
======   Rural Road,
  ●      Rural Bus Terminals (Batch-I)
  ○      Rural Bus Terminals (Batch-II)


                                          47
