Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7317-CH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tertiary Education Finance for Results Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 19, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7317-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated March 
30, 2005, describing a
 program designed to strengthen the Borrower’s tertiary education 
system as needed for the Borrower’s development into a knowledge economy (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program;  
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through two loans over a period of approximately seven years 
to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program;  
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(D) 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the first phase of the 
Program, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on 
their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such 
taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the 
use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in 
the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(c) 
   Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means any tertiary education institution which is selected, 
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, to receive grants under the 
Innovation Competitive Fund; 
(b) “DESUP” 
means 
División de Educación  Superior
,
the tertiary education 
division in MINEDUC; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Innovation Competitive Fund” means the fund referred to in Part B.1 of 
the Project; 
(f) 
“Innovation Subproject” means a project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary, consisting of one or more of the activities set forth in Part B.1 of the Project, 
and to be financed by the Innovation Competitive Fund; 
(g) 
“Institutional Effectiveness Subproject” means a project to be carried out 
by a University under Part B.2 of the Project, consisting of activities as shall be proposed 
by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, and to be partly financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan; 
(h) 
“Institutional Performance Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“IPP” means the indigenous peoples plan set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Bank dated March 30, 2005; 
(j) 
“MINEDUC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(k) 
“National System for Quality Assurance Law” means a law substantially 
in accordance with the draft law (
proyecto de ley
)
submitted to the Borrower’s Congress 
on November 12, 2002; 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank dated March 30, 2005; 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 30, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
Page  5
-
4
-
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(o) 
“Project Department” means DESUP’s unit referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Student Financial Aid Law” means a law substantially in accordance 
with the draft law (
proyecto de ley) 
submitted to the Borrower’s Congress in July 2002; 
(q) 
“Tertiary Education Observatory Unit” means DESUP’s unit referred to 
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(r) 
“University” means any of the universities referred to in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Education’s Decree with Force of Law No. 4 published in the Borrower’s 
Official 
Gazette
 on
January 20, 1981 which is selected, pursuant to the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual, to carry out an Institutional Effectiveness Subproject. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty five 
million and one hundred and thirty thousand dollars ($25,130,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of charges in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. . The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
Page  6
-
5
-
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15  in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be co
nsidered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MINEDUC with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, education, 
economic, financial, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project, enter 
into agreements with each Beneficiary, under terms and conditions substantially similar 
to those of the model form contained in the Operational Manual (the Grant Agreements), 
such agreements to provide for: (i) the transfer by the Borrower to such Beneficiary, on a 
grant basis, of the funds required by such Beneficiary to carry out an Innovation 
Subproject; and (ii) the obligation of such Beneficiary to carry out such Innovation 
Subproject as provided in the Operational Manual. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain, during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
 a unit in DESUP responsible for Project coordination and management 
(the Project Department), such unit to maintain a structure and functions satisfactory to 
the Bank, and to have qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its 
responsibilities; and 
(b) 
a unit in DESUP responsible for the collecting, validating, evaluating and 
disseminating data on tertiary education (the Tertiary Education Observatory Unit), such 
unit to maintain a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified 
staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities. 
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Part B.2 of the 
Project, through MINEDUC, enter into agreements with each University, under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the of the model form contained in the 
Operational Manual (the Institutional Performance Agreements), such agreements to 
provide for:  
(i) 
multi-year Institutional Effectiveness Subprojects with related 
targets for implementation; 
(ii)  
funding commitments for implementation as per the costing of 
proposed activities, including the amounts to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; 
(iii)  
financial reporting requirements; 
(iv)  
payment provisions based on targets met; and 
(v) 
indicators to monitor progress of the Institutional Effectiveness 
Subproject and the related targets, and to be used as qualitative 
and quantitative evidence of targets achieved to pace funding 
under the Institutional Performance Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Institutional Performance 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Page  9
-
8
-
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Institutional 
Performance Agreement or any provision thereof; and 
 
(c) 
not later than three months after the Effective Date, enter into at least 
three of such  Institutional Performance Agreements. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 15 each year, commencing April 15, 2007, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the bank, by April 30 each year, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project; 
(b) 
criteria for selection of Beneficiaries, Universities, Innovation 
Subprojects and Institutional Effectiveness Subprojects; 
(c) 
requirements for implementation of Innovation Subprojects and 
Institutional Effectiveness Subprojects; and 
(d) 
model forms for the Grant Agreements and Institutional Performance 
Agreements. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall carry out the IPP in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in MINEDUC a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
Page  11
-
10
-
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Ba
nk’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall through DESUP 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such semester.  
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any Beneficiary or University shall 
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the respective Grant Agreement or 
Institutional Performance Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions namely that the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower 
and approved by the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date November 17, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  13
-
12
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Teatinos 120 
 
Santiago, Chile 
 
Facsimile:  (56-2) 698-8903 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Santiago de Chile, Chile, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
By
 /s/ Nicolás Eyzaguirre Guzmán 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean  
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Gianni Lambertini Maldonado 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Controller General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Gastón Astorquiza Altoner 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Witnessed on behalf of the Minister of Education: 
 
By: 
/s/ Pilar Armanet Armanet 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1)  Goods for Part A of 
500,000 
100% 
 the 
Project 
 
(2) Consulta
nts’ services 
2,750,000 
95% 
 
and Training for Part A 
 
of the Project 
 
(3)  Innovation Subprojects and 
20,500,000 
95% of the goods, works 
 
Institutional Effectiveness 
 
and services of the 
 Subprojects 
 
respective 
Innovation 
 
Subproject, and 70% 
 
of
the goods, works, 
 
services and operating 
 
costs of the respective 
 
Institutional Effectiveness 
 
Subproject 
 
(4) Operating Costs 
500,000 
70% 
 
(5) Front-end fee 
251,300 
 
(6)  Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
628,700
TOTAL 25,130,000
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of salaries, 
communications, office supply, and local travel directly related to the performance of the 
Project activities by DESUP and the commissions referred to in Part A. 3 (a) of the 
Project,  which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by DESUP in connection with  the carrying out of the training activities under 
Part A of the Project, including local travel costs, per diem of trainers, trainees, 
facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2005;  
(b) 
any expenditures under Part A.1. (c) of the Project, unless the Bank has 
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Student Financial Aid Law has been 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette; and 
(c) 
any expenditures under Part A.3 (b) of the Project unless the Bank has 
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the National System for Quality 
Assurance Law has been published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazzette
.
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
 
(a) 
goods, works and services (including those for Institutional Effectiveness 
Subprojects and Innovation Subprojects) in respect of which no prior review of contracts 
is required in accordance with the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
Training and Operating Costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the effectiveness of 
the Borrower’s 
funding of tertiary education by enhancing coherence, responsiveness, equity and quality 
in the system, through stronger accountability for performance. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Strengthening of the Institutional Framework for Tertiary Education
1. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity for oversight and management of the 
tertiary education sector through, 
inter alia
,
the establishment and operation of: 
 
(a) 
the Project Department; 
 
(b) 
the Tertiary Education Observatory Unit; and 
 
(c) 
a commission for the management of student financial aid, 
and carrying out of workshops as needed for Project implementation.  
2. 
Carrying out of studies for the strengthening of policies and strategies for tertiary 
education including post-secondary technical education, on 
inter alia
:
(a) 
 the sufficiency and targeting of the student financial aid system for 
tertiary students; 
(b) 
the programs targeting indigenous students; 
(c) 
 the structure and efficiency of the tertiary education system; 
(d) 
 the academic degree structure and curricular innovation; 
(e) 
the transfer of academic credits between institutions; and 
Page  18
-
17
-
(f) 
such other subjects as shall be proposed by the Borrower and agreed to 
by the Bank. 
3. 
(a) 
Strengthening of the capacity of
 MINEDUC’s commissions carrying out 
quality assurance and accreditation functions through the provision of consultants’ 
services and equipment as needed. 
(b) 
Establishment and operation of an independent national accreditation and 
quality assurance agency, including equipping as needed. 
Part B
:
Innovation Subprojects and Institutional Effectiveness Subprojects
1. 
Operation of a national competitive fund to stimulate innovation and strengthen 
tertiary programs in regards to coherence, responsiveness, equity and quality (the 
Innovation Competitive Fund), through the provision of grants to Beneficiaries for: 
(a) 
technical training at the tertiary level; 
(b) 
undergraduate university education and university teacher training, 
including curricula innovation, credit transfer, articulation and networks, transition 
programs for inadequately prepared secondary school graduates, piloting of preparatory 
courses for indigenous students, capacity building for results-based management, and 
strengthening of pedagogical programs; and 
(c) 
 graduate university education, in particular creating and strengthening 
doctoral programs that would  contribute to the Borrower’s transition to a knowledge-
based economy and to achieve gains in efficiency and quality through networking.  
 
2. 
Carrying out of subprojects to improve the institutional effectiveness of 
Universities in: 
(a) 
the management of  Universities with  a results-based approach; and  
(b) 
the delivery of programs responsive to the needs of the Borrower’s 
knowledge economy (the Institutional Effectiveness Subprojects). 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2009  
 
through August 15, 2022 
3.57% 
 
On February 15, 2023 
3.61% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Sophisticated scientific equipment (regardless of 
value) which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank, and the following 
additional provisions: 
Page  22
-
21
-
(a) 
All bid-related documents shall be submitted together with the bid, and 
bidders shall not be required to submit any bid related documents in advance of the 
deadline for submission of bids. 
(b) 
All bids received on or before the deadline for bid submission shall be 
admitted for evaluation at the bid opening ceremony and no bids should be rejected at 
opening. 
(c) 
The evaluation process shall be confidential and, after the public bid 
opening, information relating to the bids, their examination and recommendations 
concerning awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially 
concerned with this process until the publication of contract award, except for the results 
of the post-qualification process, which should precede the opening of the second bid 
envelope. 
(d) 
Unit price contracts for works construction shall be priced on the basis of 
unit prices quoted by bidders after correction of computation errors, and maintaining the 
total bid price and changing unit prices in accordance to official cost estimates 
(“compensatory pricing”) is not acceptable. 
(e) 
Foreign contractors shall be allowed to bid and such contractors shall not 
be required to: (i) register as a condition for bidding; or (ii) have a local representative to 
bid. Foreign contractors shall, however, register before contract signature. 
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
proposals received from a short-list of qualified consultants and no open bidding shall be 
carried out.  MINEDUC, the Beneficiaries and Universities shall publicly advertise 
expressions of interest as the basis for developing lists of firms.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and Section V of this Schedule. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
(a) Services for assignments that meet the requirements 
set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
(b) 
University professors or scientists from research institutes can be 
contracted individually provided that they have full time employment contracts with their 
institution and have regularly exercised their function for a year or more before they are 
contracted under the Project. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
