Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1307 
Project Name 
Chile: Tertiary Education Finance for Results Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Tertiary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P088498 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 2,  2005 
Date of Appraisal 
March 28, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
May 24, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Sound fundamentals and a strategy for integration in the world economy through elimination of trade 
barriers have been effective in underpinning growth at a steady pace in Chile and shielding the country 
from regional crises. Between 1990 and 2003 Chile’s annual per capita growth averaged 4.1 percent. This 
is significantly above the level for the region and compares well with high performing economies in East 
Asia and the Pacific. In the same period, extreme poverty was reduced to 4.7 percent of the population 
and the overall poverty level was halved to 18.8 percent. 
The challenge for Chile is to sustain economic growth and social development and remain competitive in 
the context of an open economy. Much will depend on the ability of the economy to diversify and reduce 
its dependence on low value-added exports as factor accumulation and natural resources are unlikely to 
remain sources of growth in the future. The Chilean economy has already made progress toward this goal. 
In recent years, cellulose, fruit, salmon and wine have emerged as important new export items. 
Nevertheless, dependence on natural resource exports such as copper is still high. In 2003, mining 
accounted for 7 percent of GDP and 41 percent of export earnings. 
For these reasons, the Government of Chile (GoC) seeks – as a matter of high priority – to create the 
conditions for Chile’s transition into a knowledge-based economy. This responds to an international trend 
where the ability to produce, adapt, diffuse and commercialize knowledge is becoming an increasingly 
important determinant of economic growth and quality of life improvements. The knowledge economy 
offers opportunities to the degree that Chile is able to build the skills and knowledge necessary to succeed 
in a highly competitive global environment. Hence, improving and expanding access to tertiary education 
(TE) is at the core of implementing the Government’s strategy for growth and social mobility. 
2. Objectives 
The project’s development objective is to increase the effectiveness of public funding for tertiary 
education by enhancing coherence, responsiveness, equity and quality in the system, through stronger 
accountability for performance. 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The World Bank has had a decade long cooperation with Chile in education. The proposed project lies in 
continuation of previous Bank operations in Chile and capitalizes on the many lessons, which the Bank 
has accrued over time. In consequence of this long and fruitful engagement in Chile, the Bank has 
Page  2
2
established a valuable network and has made contacts with all major stakeholders in TE. This 
involvement gives the Bank a unique opportunity to be at the forefront of developments in Chilean TE. 
The Higher Education Improvement Project (MECESUP 
–
P055481) has shown the value of the Bank as 
a
catalyst and broker for key sector reform. In particular, the establishment of a competitive funding 
mechanism for quality improvement at the program level based on transparent selection criteria has been 
an important innovation in Chilean TE. Having successfully supported the management for results in 
selected sub-projects, the Bank is in a key position to assist in the adoption of a new financing mechanism 
that moves performance-based funding to the institutional level. 
The proposed operation would complement the Bank’s efforts in the Science for the Knowledge Economy 
Project (P077282) to assist Chile in strengthening its national innovation system. Universities are the 
main executors of research and producers of advanced human capital. Hence, Bank involvement in both 
tertiary education and the funding of research would facilitate coordinated efforts to increase the stock of 
doctoral graduates, strengthen Chile’s science base and enhance public-private research linkages. 
More broadly, the Bank benefits from its extensive international experience in tertiary education. 
Assisting in advising the GoC, the Bank is therefore able to draw on a vast reservoir of experience and 
extensive contacts with research organizations. 
Finally, Chile provides the opportunity to pilot up-stream instruments in education. As a case of good 
practice, experience shows that components developed in Chile can inspire other countries to take similar 
steps to improve their TE system. Due to its active portfolio and contacts in the region, Bank involvement 
would facilitate the dissemination of lessons learned from such innovations to other countries in the 
region. 
4. Description 
The proposed operation is an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) with two phases. A long-term, ongoing 
partnership is critical to implementing the GoC’s strategy for the tertiary education sector. Notably, the 
Government’s strategy to increase accountability for institutional results by tying a proportion of public 
subsidies to performance requires a long-term perspective. The success of this strategy is dependent upon 
developing institutional capacity for results-based management as well as the design of an appropriate 
framework for monitoring and rewarding performance. Experience from similar reforms in the OECD 
countries shows that the policy and institutional framework necessary to implement performance-based 
funding requires time, adjustment and resources. Therefore, a first step would be to strengthen 
institutional capacity for results-based management and implement a new funding model in selected 
institutions (Phase 1 of the APL). This would allow the funding model to be validated and adjusted and 
subsequently scaled up to cover all public universities (Phases 2 of the APL).  
The first phase of the APL would have two components: 
Component one
:
Strengthening of the institutional framework for tertiary education through (i) 
improvement of sector oversight and regulation; (ii) strengthening of policies and strategies for tertiary 
education; (iii) consolidation of national system for quality assurance; (iv) establishment of a national 
observatory for tertiary education; and (v) project management. 
Component two
:
Sub-projects to enhance coherence, efficiency, equity and quality through: (i) 
innovative sub-projects for tertiary programs and (ii) sub-projects to stimulate institutional effectiveness 
in critical areas, implemented through SWAp-like performance agreements
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
(Million US$) 
BORROWER 67.0 
Page  3
3
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
25.0 
Total
92.0 
Page  4
4
6. Implementation 
The APL will span 6½ years (2005 – 2012) with implementation in two phases. 
Phase 1 (2005 – 2008) would (i) enhance government capacity for sector planning and oversight; (ii) 
strengthen policies and strategies for tertiary education; (iii) consolidate the national system for quality 
assurance; (iv) improve the national information system for tertiary education; (v) provide funding for 
innovative sub-projects; and (vi) pilot institutional performance agreements with additional money in a 
small number of universities gauged to have adequate fiduciary and information management systems. 
Triggers: The second phase will be initiated under four conditions: (i) statistical compendium containing 
updated data on TE published by MINEDUC; (ii) at least 2000 students enrolled in supported preparatory 
programs; (iii) increase in the share of students from income quintile 1 and 2 in public universities from 
18 percent in 2000 to 21 percent in 2007; and (iv) the first two-year cycle of performance agreements 
completed in at least 4 public universities. 
Phase 2 (2008 – 2011) would (i) roll out performance-based funding to all public universities by tying 
increases in AFD subsidies to performance agreements; (ii) maintain support of quality improvements; 
and (iii) use the innovation fund to implement recommendations from the sector studies, e.g. actions to 
improve participation of low income and indigenous students in tertiary education. 
7. Sustainability 
Financial sustainability
.
Chile is a country with a sustained record of growth and sound fiscal 
management. Since the early 1990s much of the growth in public expenditure has been assigned to 
improvements of education. However, this has not translated into a high level of public support for 
tertiary education due to its considerable reliance on demand side financing. Currently, public funding for 
tertiary education comprises 0.6 percent of GDP and traditional universities receive only about 20 percent 
of their revenue from direct public subsidies. Thus, the prospects for being able to maintain levels of 
funding – including potentially increased recurrent costs – are considered high. 
Institutional sustainability
.
It is critical that a revised regulatory framework be established with common 
consent and the end of the second phase, to codify and institutionalize the changes that would be 
introduced to the funding system. This would ensure sustainability from an institutional perspective 
needed to preserve a closer link between funding and performance in Chilean tertiary education. 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The Bank has a long history of support to the education sector in Chile from which many lessons have 
been learned. Notably, the proposed project builds on lessons learned in the MECESUP project. This 
project has been thoroughly evaluated through an independent external impact study. Furthermore, the 
OECD 2004 educational review of Chile, which includes a section on tertiary education, provides a solid 
foundation for the proposed project. Finally, a background study was prepared for the project. This study 
overviews approaches to results-based funding and compiles lessons learned from implementation in a 
number of OECD countries. Lessons learned reflected in the project’s design include: 
·
Dual support for capacity building at the level of the Ministry and the establishment of an innovation 
fund for tertiary programs proved an effective combination in the MECESUP project. The Ministry 
enhanced its capacity to formulate policy and the MECESUP competitive fund enabled it to stimulate 
implementation. This project would do the same by continuing to strengthen the Ministry and 
maintaining funding that can drive strategy implementation and provide an incentive for institutions 
to respond to sector priorities. 
·
Evidence from the OECD countries shows that results-based funding places high demand on the 
capacity of supervisory authorities to engage in an evidence-based dialogue with institutions. Without 
a
strong counterpart, information asymmetries may lead to under-performance. This lesson is 
Page  5
5
incorporated in the project’s design through capacity building in MINEDUC, including the 
establishment of a high-level ministerial committee for tertiary education and support for a national 
observatory for tertiary education. 
·
A
key lesson learned in reforming Chilean primary and secondary education is the need to link initial 
teacher education to the new curricula. Despite deep reforms, Chilean pupils continue to perform 
below expectations in international studies of the IEA, TIMSS and PISA. A government initiative, 
begun in 1997, to strengthen programs of initial teacher education (FFID) was successful in launching 
a
process of improvement in Chilean faculties of education. However, the program did not adequately 
address the problems of subject content knowledge for teachers and new teachers’ pedagogical skills. 
Building on the FFID initiative, the proposed project would therefore include investments in pre-
service teacher education under the innovation fund for tertiary education. 
·
The MECESUP competitive fund made a cultural change in the sector by supporting quality 
improvement at the program level and providing an incentive for university staff to identify new 
solutions. Nonetheless, the impact on overall institutional practices and management was less 
pronounced. The proposed project would add performance agreements targeted at the institutional 
level. This builds on international experiences showing that institutional performance agreements: (i) 
encourage dialogue between government and university leaders on national priorities and institutional 
goals; (ii) combine autonomy with added accountability for results; and (iii) stimulate institutional 
strategic planning and improvement processes. 
·
The MECESUP project demonstrates the value of establishing a flexible funding mechanism with 
transparent procedures as opposed to designating resources to narrowly defined purposes. Each round 
of the MECESUP competitive fund was designed to respond to specific sector development needs 
and saw a significant reorientation from investments in teaching facilities to improvement of curricula 
and learning processes. The proposed innovation fund and performance agreements would offer the 
same flexibility whilst laying down in detail the transparency of the procedures and the expected end 
results. 
Page  6
6
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
The project would increase the quality of tertiary education in under-represented regions and seek ways to 
improve access to university education for inadequately prepared secondary graduates and students in 
non-university tertiary institutions. Specifically, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) has 
been prepared to ensure that indigenous and poor students benefit from the project. This IPDP is intended 
to address issues hindering these students access to TE, as identified through a study and consultation 
carried out during project preparation. The IPDP contains three main actions: (a) the design of targeting 
mechanisms to identify and promote indigenous student participation in TE; (b) incentives for universities 
in selected areas to provide remedial learning opportunities for indigenous students; and (c) studies on 
ways to strengthen indigenous scholarships for talented individuals. 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
Agapitova, Natalia & Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (2002). 
Science, Technology and Innovation in Chile
,
LCSHD Paper Series No. 78, World Bank, Washington, DC 
De Ferranti, David et al. (2003). 
Closing the Gaps in Education and Technology
,
World Bank, 
Washington, DC 
Hansen, Thomas, Lauritz Holm-Nielsen and Patricia Garcia Zuniga (2002a). 
Chile - Human Resources 
for the Knowledge Economy
,
LCSHD Paper Series No. 79, World Bank, Washington, DC 
Hansen, Thomas, Natalia Agapitova, Lauritz Holm-Nielsen & Ognjenka Goga Vukmirovic (2002b). 
The 
Evolution of Science and Technology: Latin America and the Caribbean in Comparative Perspective
,
LCSHD Paper Series No. 80, World Bank, Washington, DC 
Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz and Kristian Thorn (2004). 
Regional and International Challenges to Higher 
Education in Latin America
,
World Bank, Washington D.C. 
Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz; Kristian Thorn and Juan Prawda (2004). 
Chile: Decades of Educational Reform 
Deliver
,
En Breve, No. 44, The World Bank 
Larrañaga, Osvaldo (2002). 
Propuesta de Financiamiento para la Educación Superior en Chile
,
Santiago: 
Universidad de Chile, Departamento de Economía 
OECD (2004). 
Chile: Reviews of National Policies for Education
,
Paris: Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development 
Repetto, Andrea (2003). 
Access Barriers for Minority Groups to the Chilean Higher Education System
,
LCSHD Paper Series No. 81, World Bank, Washington, DC 
Thorn, Kristian; Lauritz Holm-Nielsen and Jette Samuel Jeppesen (2004). 
Approaches to Results-based 
Funding in Tertiary Education 
–
Identifying Finance Reform Options for Chile
,
Policy Research 
Working Paper Series, No. 3436, The World Bank 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
7
World Bank (2002). 
Constructing Knowledge Societies: New Challenges for Tertiary Education
,
Washington D.C.: The World Bank 
World Bank (2003). 
Chile: Science for the Knowledge Economy Project
,
Project Appraisal Document, 
Washington D.C.: The World Bank
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact 
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen 
Kristian Thorn 
Title 
Lead Education Specialist 
Extended-term Consultant 
Tel 
(202) 473-6712 
(202) 473-8347 
Fax 
(202) 522-0050 
(202) 522-0050 
Email 
Lholmnielsen@worldbank.org Kthorn@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
