                                                                                                     94057
Improving Quality and Equity through Accountable Public Funding                                      April 16, 2012




 Chile's Tertiary Education Experience


Overview
Tertiary education enrollment in Chile rose by 51 percent between 2005 and 2010, from
646,000 to 973,000 students. Chile was able to improve both quality and equity of education
despite this massive expansion. With partial assistance from IBRD funding and expertise, Chile
passed legislation on quality assurance and student financial aid, set up a tertiary education
information system, increased the availability of advanced human capital and research
capacity, and piloted four performance agreements with universities. The success of these
agreements provided proof-of-concept for results-based financing.


Challenge                                                         MULTIMEDIA
In 2005, the quality of tertiary education in Chile varied         Video: The University Andres
considerably, data on the tertiary education sector was            Bello is awarded funding for
unreliable, and students from poor backgrounds faced an            three projects for academic
uphill battle to reach graduation. Internal inefficiencies         innovation
plagued the tertiary education system, with first year dropout
rates upwards of 20 percent in even the best universities,
and overly long degree programs that dragged on 3-4
semesters more than planned. There were virtually no               More Results
remedial classes to strengthen basic competencies. Chile
was struggling to transform itself into a "knowledge
economy", with a mere 220 PhDs graduating per year and            Tertiary education enrollment in
                                                                  Chile rose by
only one-third of professors qualified at the PhD level.
Finally, there was insufficient accountability and transparency
in the use of direct public funding for tertiary education: 95
percent was disbursed to institutions based on historical
                                                                  51 %
precedence and political negotiation, rather than on merit and
results.
                                                                  Students enrolled in PhD
                                                                  programs increased

Approach
The project, "Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la          74 %
Educación Superior " or Mecesup2, used four mechanisms to
increase equity, quality, coherence, and responsiveness in
the Chilean tertiary education system, through stronger
                                                                  IBRD provided financing of
accountability for performance.

       A competitively-allocated small grants program that        US$25.1
                                                                  million
       enabled tertiary education institutions to tactically
       address priorities in specific areas of need. Grants
       focused on stimulating innovation, advancing human
       capital, increasing student learning, and improving
       institutional management.

       The piloting of innovative performance agreements            LEARN MORE
       with four universities. The agreements provided each           Mece2 website
       university with an incentive to implement plans of
                                                                      Mece2 project file
       action in areas of high national priority, as financing
       depended on their performance measured against set             Division of Higher Education in
       targets.                                                       Chile's Ministry of Education

                                                                      Higher Education Information
       Strengthened tertiary education policy formulation and         System (SIES for its Spanish-
       transparency through the establishment of a                    language acronym)
       comprehensive information system, a labor market               OECD-WB Report - Reviews of
       observatory, and a quality assurance system.                   National Policies for Education:
                                                                      Tertiary Education in Chile
       Seven in-depth sector studies to inform and guide
                                                                      Universidad de Tarapacá
       policy.
                                                                      Universidad de Chile

                                                                      Universidad del Bío-Bío
Results                                                               Universidad de la Frontera

The Mecesup2 lending program increased the effectiveness
of public funding for tertiary education by enhancing equity,
quality, coherence, and responsiveness in the system. Key
outcomes include:

       Successful pilot of results-based financing agreements with four universities resulted in
       greater accountability and effectiveness of public funding. With the concept now proven
       by this trial experience, Chile will now roll-out these performance agreements across the
       tertiary education system.

       Increase in the production of advanced human capital. Students enrolled in PhD
       programs increased 74 percent (2005-2010) while graduates of PhD programs
       increased 65 percent (2005-2009).

       Exponential growth of enrollment in remedial classes to strengthen basic competencies,
       from 307 students in 2005 to more than 35,700 in 2010. This was a notable
       achievement given 43 percent of students enrolled in tertiary education in 2009 came
       from the lowest three income quintiles and typically had weak secondary education.

       Creation of the Tertiary Education Information System and the strengthening of the
       Ministry of Education's capacity to collect, process, validate and publish information.

       Passing of the 2006 Quality Assurance Law, which consolidated the quality assurance
       system. The number of accredited tertiary education institutions increased from 41 to 87
       between 2005 and 2010.



Bank Contribution
IBRD provided financing of US$25.1 million, and the Government of Chile contributed an
additional US$75 million. IBRD provided technical assistance continuously throughout
supervision. Aspects of this technical assistance resulted in major joint policy studies by the
World Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD):

       Reviews of National Policies for Education: Tertiary Education in Chile, co-authored by
       the OECD and The World Bank, 2009

       Human Capital Formation Abroad: A Review of Chile's Higher Education Scholarships
       Programme, co-authored by the OECD and the World Bank, June 2010

       Higher Education in Regional and City Development: Bío Bío Region, Chile, co-authored
      by the OECD and the World Bank, 2010



Partners
The partnership with the OECD in Chile has led to similar joint work in the Dominican Republic
and in Colombia.


Moving Forward
Chile's government has requested a new US$40 million lending program to further advance the
achievements of Mecesup2, and the World Bank Board approved the loan on March 13, 2012.
The new initiative will roll out performance-based funding agreements, targeting quality and
relevance in pedagogy programs, professional institutes, and technical training centers, among
others. The Project Implementation Unit for Mecesup2 has been absorbed by the Ministry of
Education and renamed the Department of Institutional Funding, giving it formal responsibilities
for all public funding of tertiary education institutions.
The performance agreements piloted in Chile have resulted in significant knowledge transfer
among other countries. Chile has shared its experience and expertise in Tunisia, Bangladesh,
India, Ghana, Mozambique, Lesotho, Montenegro, and Indonesia.


Beneficiaries
Andrea Arriagada is the first graduate of the Environmental Civil Engineering degree in the
history of the Technical University Federico Santa María in Chile. Her excellent academic
results provided her with the springboard to become an entrepreneur in environmental
solutions.
"For me this is a great personal achievement. I feel prepared academically and with the tools
necessary to face the working world," Arriagada says. "The University gave me not only
academic knowledge, but also the opportunity to be a student leader and to learn to speak in
public. I am currently working with a start-up at the University's International Institute for
Business Innovation, offering environmental solutions to industrial problems, specifically in
agriculture and agribusiness, where we provide companies with sustainable waste management
solutions."
