Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Report No.:  AB4833 
Project Name 
Ninth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-9) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%); General agriculture 
sector (30%); Other industry (15%); Primary education (10%); 
Water and Sanitation (10%) 
Project ID 
P099033 
Borrower(s) 
BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
May 29, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 27, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 25, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Burkina Faso is a small, landlocked Sahelian country of about 13.4 million inhabitants.
 
Roughly 80 percent of the population lives on agriculture, which contributes around 22 percent 
to GDP.  Structural reforms, sound macroeconomic policies and steady investment enabled 
Burkina to sustain significant growth rates and maintain relative macro-economic stability over 
the decade preceding 2007
.
Cotton exports formed the basis of Burkina’s high GDP growth rates 
which averaged about 6 percent during this period, significantly exceeding the WAEMU 
average.  Inflation was kept under control, displaying low and even negative levels, while 
external assistance (increasingly on a grant basis), private flows and transfers helped finance 
current account deficits. However, the economy remains overly dependent on the export of a few 
products (cotton and gold) and highly vulnerable to exogenous shocks, notably weather and 
terms of trade fluctuations.  The impact of exogenous shocks was particularly significant in 
2007-2008.  Low cotton prices at the onset of the 2006-2007 cropping campaign, combined with 
the appreciation of the Euro, a significant drop in cotton production from irregular rainfall and 
rising food and fuel prices, resulted in a decline in GDP growth from 5.5 percent in 2006 to 3.6 
percent in 2007.  Due to a good agricultural season and a series of government stimulus 
measures, GDP growth recovered to 5 percent in 2008.  However, inflation increased to 10.7 
percent in that year as a result of the rising international oil and food prices.  The falling cotton 
exports  only partly offset by gold exports, coupled with the increased cost of food and energy 
imports, also led to the widening of the current account deficit (including grants) from 8.3 
percent of GDP in 2007 to 11 percent of GDP in 2008. 
The global crisis is affecting negatively Burkina’s growth, threatens the outturn of the 
coming cotton campaign and risks to reverse the progress the country has made in poverty 
reduction.
 
Although the country’s banking system has limited cross-border linkages, the 
economic outlook has worsened as the lagged effects on the real activity are feeding through the 
economy.  Weaker cotton export prices and demand are the main transmission mechanism. 
Burkina Faso is sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest cotton producer with unprocessed cotton 
accounting for above half (in good years) to above a third (in bad years) of exports.  The sector 
Page  2
provides 700,000 jobs, employs 17 percent of the population and constitutes the main source of 
cash revenue for many farmers. The lower global growth and the sharp decline in cotton prices (a 
drop of over 40 percent in the world’s reference price) have significantly affected the 
profitability of ginning companies, and have built up producers’ debts, which can result in drastic 
cuts in production by small cotton farmers leading potentially to a significant increase in poverty.  
The impact of the global crisis is taking place while the cotton sector has not yet recovered from 
the 2004-2006 crisis (that led to the recapitalization of SOFITEX, the main cotton company, in 
2007 and the two other cotton companies, Faso Coton and SOCOMA, in 2008) and from a 
severe drought in 2007 which caused a significant increase in cotton producers’ indebtedness.  
To save the coming cotton campaign, the Government needs fiscal space for additional 
expenditure in support of farmers to plant now and, potentially, of SOFITEX to avoid its 
liquidation.  While supporting cotton production is essential to protect the country’s main source 
of foreign exchange, the global crisis is expected to also affect the country through other 
channels, particularly with the tightening of credit conditions, the decline in foreign direct 
investment, especially in mining and the reduction in official aid as donors tackle financial crises 
at home.    
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
This program document proposes a single-tranche Ninth Poverty Reduction Support 
Grant (PRSC-9) for the equivalent of US$100 million to Burkina Faso.
 It is the third of a 
programmatic series of four PRSCs, covering the period 2007-2010, to support the 
implementation of Burkina Faso’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-II).  The 
operation aims to support the authorities’ efforts to cope with the impact of the global economic 
downturn on the Burkinabe economy through the cotton sector and maintain the momentum of 
reforms to achieve critical developmental objectives of the PRSP-II.  PRSC-9 aims to support a 
core set of critical actions to: (i) improve the investment climate and promote exports, with a 
particular focus on actions to save the coming cotton campaign and carry out longer-term 
reforms to improve the sector’s overall competitiveness; (ii) protect access to quality basic 
services through deepened decentralization; and (iii) maximize the effectiveness of limited fiscal 
resources available by promoting efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public 
resources through enhanced public financial management.  Specifically, PRSC-9 will support 
transparency and competitiveness reforms in the cotton sector by consolidating the price setting 
mechanism adopted last year and supporting managerial efficiency and productivity efforts in 
SOFITEX, as well as providing the needed fiscal space for financing explicit fertilizer subsidies 
and debt settlement for cotton producers.  PRSC-9 will also support export diversification 
beyond cotton by facilitating trade and small and medium-enterprise investment..  In addition, 
PRSC-9 will support efforts to protect access to quality basic services by further transferring 
responsibilities and resources to urban municipalities in the education sector and to rural 
municipalities in the water and sanitation sector, while supporting economic activities and 
services in urban municipalities.  Lastly, PRSC-9 will help increase public spending 
effectiveness by improving budget transparency, oversight and accountability, including through 
support for the establishment of the High Authority for State Oversight (ASCE).  The proposed 
operation is also an integral part of the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy for 
FY06-09. 
 
Page  3
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed operation remains aligned with the overarching principle of aid 
harmonization.
 The PRSP-II acknowledged the need for continued official development 
assistance (un-earmarked general budget support being the preferred modality) and created the 
momentum for a significant group of donors to align their budgetary support under a common 
framework, the General Budget Support Framework (
Cadre Général d’Organisation des Appuis 
Budgétaires
 CGAB).  Providing additional and more predictable resources, increasing aid 
effectiveness and fostering mutual accountability are CGAB objectives that were re-affirmed at 
the third High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness held in Accra, Ghana, in September 2008. In 
alignment with the donor community, the objectives of PRSC-9 were discussed in the CGAB 
forum and adjusted, at the request of Government, to better address the situation created by the 
recent cotton crisis. 
This operation also 
supports the Government’s efforts to meet urgent financing needs for 
critical interventions in support of the coming cotton planting season, mitigate the impact 
of the global crisis and undertake much needed major cotton sector reforms for which 
there is now a broad local consensus.
 
As a result of the crisis, growth for 2009 is projected at 
3.5 percent, down from an earlier projection of 6.2 percent.  The cotton sector is being hit with a 
particular intensity, with cotton companies threatened with bankruptcies, farmers and village 
cooperatives engorged in debts, and many farmers (up to 30 percent of producers in some areas) 
are unable to make a profitable activity from cotton unless key financial parameters (farmgate 
price, price of fertilizers, indebtedness status) improve soon.  If not dealt with expeditiously, this 
crisis presents a systemic risk by compromising the financing of the 2009/2010 cotton campaign 
and beyond, durably a
ffecting one of Burkina’s key sources of foreign exchange and income for 
its farmers.  This operation will create the fiscal space needed by the Government to support the 
cotton sector through a series of interventions and reforms adopted with strong support from 
cotton producers.  The Government reached consensus with cotton stakeholders in early May 
2009 on a package of reforms and key principles to address the crisis decisively: (i) the producer 
price mechanism is implemented to the letter; (ii) fertilizers will be subsidized explicitly to keep 
input costs unchanged from last year; (iii) the cotton producers’ debt overhang will be eliminated  
but a new system of insurance will be set-up before the next cotton campaign to restore 
incentives; and (iv) decision will be taken to address sustainability of the smoothing fund, on the 
recapitalization of SOFITEX, and on financial and productivity reforms for the state-controlled 
cotton companies.  The Council of Ministers will adopt a full reform package for implementation 
after this coming cotton campaign.  
4. Financing 
 
(US$ mn) 
Source:  
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
 
IDA (Grant)                                                                                                
       100 
 
Total 
       100 
 
Page  4
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for overall implementation of the 
proposed
 PRSC-9
.
The Secretary of the Permanent Secretariat for the Monitoring of Financial 
Programs and Policies (SP-PPF) in the MEF
 will lead the Government’s technical team with 
representatives of the Ministries of Economy and Finance; Basic Education and Literacy; 
Secondary Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research; Agriculture, Water and 
Fisheries; Commerce, Enterprise Development, and Artisanship; Livestock and Animal 
Resources; Public Administration and Decentralization; Telecommunications and New 
Technologies; External Control Institutions and representatives of public enterprises. 
6. Risks 
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation.  A 
further deterioration of the global financial environment constitutes the most prevalent 
risk, for the cotton sector in particular
 but also for the rest of the economy.  Volatility in 
commodity prices, particularly cotton and gold, lower capital flows from FDI and ODA and 
weaker demand for Burkinabè exports will affect revenue generation, growth and public 
finances, as well as private sector activity.  Moreover, resistance to reforms could slow down the 
implementation of the decentralization strategy or delay the necessary controls on large public 
procurement contracts, affecting aid effectiveness over time.  Burkina Faso’s highly centralized 
political system, top-down hierarchical traditions and the existence of patron-client relationships 
in the state system can create disincentives within political institutions to initiate and sustain 
reforms. Public sector capacity constraints can constitute a challenge to successful 
implementation of the reform program.  In particular, the well-organized and professional high 
level administration can be contrasted with weak lower level administrative capacity.  In IDA’s 
assessment, the potential benefits of the proposed operation outweigh the residual risks and 
warrant IDA’s assistance for implementing critical reforms and policy actions in a coordinated 
fashion with other donors, while supporting risk mitigation actions to maximize the sustainability 
of the reform agenda. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed PRSC-9 is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty 
reduction.
 
First, sustaining the competitiveness of the cotton sector, facilitating e-commerce 
and promoting services to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in two peripheral regions of the 
country will help sustain growth and employment creation, particularly in rural areas where most 
of the poor live.  Second, improved access to basic services (primary schools, water and 
sanitation, basic social and economic infrastructure in secondary urban areas), which is the main 
focus of the decentralization program will have a direct impact on the poor, support their greater 
participation in the growth process and sustain progress towards the MDGs. Finally, the 
strengthening of public financial management and of the fight against corruption is expected to 
enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use.  Such measures 
would increase value for public money and the country’s absorption capacity for external 
resources.   
Page  5
The activities supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have significant 
negative effects on the environment, forests, and other natural resources.
 
In the cotton 
sector, PRSC-9 supports Government's efforts to improve governance rules in the sector and 
transparency of SOFITEX’s operations, while addressing the cotton sector’s crisis most 
immediate needs.  Beyond cotton, the support to SMEs through the Business Association – 
Maison de l’Entreprise du Burkina Faso, while not expected to have direct consequences on the 
environment, should help provide jobs beyond the agricultural sector, which will contribute to 
limit pressure on land use.  The decentralization measures are coordinated around the 
government’s strategy (CSMOD) and corresponding three-year action plan, whose third pillar 
focuses on improved land, environmental and natural resource management.  Technical 
assistance from donors will be needed to achieve these objectives but the CSMOD offers a 
framework to coordinate donor interventions in this area.  The operationalization of the FPDCT 
had a positive impact on the environment by financing drain works in secondary urban centers.   
It is important to underscore that Burkina Faso is aware of the importance of ensuring 
environmental sustainability
 and that the Government has tasked the Ministry of Environment 
to supervise compliance of public policies and programs with environmental regulations.  The 
Government’s policy is addressing climate change, biodiversity, desertification and sustainable 
development more generally.  For rural development, the government is finalizing a policy 
framework that will improve consistency between productive investments in the sector and the 
preservation of the environment.  This measure is included in the CGAB matrix for 2009 and 
will be monitored by the group of donors. 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Gilles Alfandari 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (1-202) 458-9498 
Email: galfandari@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (1-202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (1-202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
