Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24728
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35620; CPL-35621)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$175 MILLION AND US$50 MILLION (SUPPL.)
TO THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
08/28/2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
LL 1.0 = US$ 0.0007
US$ 1.0 = LL 1,500
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDR                                Council for Development and Reconstruction
EdL                                Electricite' du Liban
EIB                                European Investment Bank
EU                                 European Union
ERRP                               Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
GDP                                Gross Domestic Product
GOL                                Government of Lebanon
IBRD                               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                                International Competitive Bidding
LRA                                Litani River Authority
LV                                 Low Voltage
METAP                              Mediterranean Enviromnmental Technical Assistance Program
MEW                                Ministry of Electricity and Water
MHEW                               Ministry of Hydraulics and Electric Resources
MPT                                Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
MV                                 Medium Voltage
NBF                                Non-Bank Financed
NERP                               National Emergency Reconstruction Program
SIU                                Sector Implementation Unit
TOR                                Terms of Reference
Vice President   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director.  Francoise Clottes/Emnimanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Somm Mukherji



LEBANON
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              28
Map: IBRD 24330






Project ID: P005336                                       Project Name: EMERGENCY RECOVERY
Team Leader: Somin Mukherji                               TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR    e: Core ICR                                        Report Date: August 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EMERGENCY RECOVERY                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-35620;
CPL-35621
County/lDepartment: LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                    Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector
(51%), Power (20%), Housing construction (14%),
Other industry (9%), Central government
administration (6%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/06/1992                              Effective:                    09/17/1993
Appraisal:  11/17/1992                                MTR:                       07/11/1997
Approval:  03/04/1993                              Closing: 12/31/1996           03/01/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT/COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch-Wesser
Country Manager:      Joseph Saba                               Ram Chopra
Sector Manager:       Francoise Clottes                         Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:   Somin Mukherji
ICR Primary Author:   Somin Mukherji; Surajit
Goswami
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 Within the overall framework of the National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP), the
Project was designed to assist the Government of Lebanon (GOL) to: (i) rehabilitate, repair and reconstruct
damaged physical and social infrastructure facilities and housing; and (ii) strengthen the Government's
institutional capabilities in implementing the NERP. The Project was not expected in itself to be a vehicle
for policy reforms as Lebanon needed time to attract private investors, to bring order to its public finances
and to eliminate unsustainable macroeconomic imbalances. It was only expected to ensure that its
successful implementation was compatible with future sectoral and macroeconomic reform programs.
Assessment of Original Objective and Design:
3.1.2 Lebanon was coming out of a devastating 17 years of turmoil which had destroyed much of the
capital stock and public services, and hampered the education of at least a generation of skilled labor. The
critical political and economic situations had made foreign and local commitment to invest in a large scale
in the various sectors difficult. The Government's strategy was appropriate: (a) to focus on expediting the
rehabilitation works and improving overall performance of public sector utilities; (b) to operate these
services on sound commercial basis in order to attract private sector investment in the future; and (c) to
promote competition through proper regulation. As a result of the reconstruction, Lebanon was expected to
regain its ability to pursue progress primarily based, as in the past, on private sector led development. By
aiding the rehabilitation process, the Project was thus extremely responsive and relevant to borrower
circumstances and development priorities.
3.1.3 To facilitate the rehabilitation effort, the Government had already developed an inventory of
damaged physical and social infrastructure facilities to be reconstructed. This clarity of tasks helped
achieving part (i) of the project objective. There were some uncertainties in implementing part (i) of the
objective. This was on account of the possible inaccuracies of the initial damage assessment of each of the
identified tasks and, consequently, in the estimated cost and time required to finish the rehabilitation effort
in water and wastewater, solid waste, electricity, and education (vocational) sectors. The situation for the
housing sector was slightly different. There was an inventory of the damages incurred but the assets
belonged to individuals and not to the state. The demand for such assistance from the Project could not be
ascertained ex-ante because of the demand for project funds depended on various factors, such as,
individual inclination to take loans, the financial intermediaries' judgment to take the commercial risk, and
the availability of funds from other donors. Eventually, the housing component was dropped.
3.1.4 In contrast to the physical reconstruction, the overall strategy to strengthen Government's
institutional capabilities (part (ii) of the project objective) was not spelt out in as much detail, although the
list of items to be financed was quite specific. During the early stage of project implementation,
strengthening of GOL's institutional capabilities was aimed at enhancing Government's capacity to
implement construction activities in time and within budget. In parallel, the Project was to finance sectoral
restructuring studies aimed at improving overall sectoral efficiencies in the future.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  During implementation, the development objectives remained unchanged. However, because of
updated cost estimates based on revised Damage Assessment Reports, additional financing was necessary
to complete the ongoing reconstruction works and to assist in other emergency repair and rehabilitation
works (from recent damages due to external hostilities) in the sectors covered under the Project,
particularly in the power, water and waste water, and housing sectors. Accordingly, a supplemental loan
was approved in 1996 which also included financing of rehabilitation works and extension of essential
- 2-



water supply and wastewater facilities (in parts of Bekka Valley, Mount Lebanon) and emergency repairs
(in South Lebanon).
Assessment of Revised Objective and Design:
3.2.2. The NERP had included many new (i.e. non-rehabilitation/development) works and, to help the GOL
maintain regional balance and achieve equitable development throughout the country particularly in the
rural areas, some of these investments were perhaps inappropriately included in the Project. Unlike
classical rehabilitation tasks, these works required extensive coordination at the community level and the
Project structure originally designed for emergency rehabilitation effort was possibly ill-suited to such
tasks.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The major components in the various sectors as originally envisaged during preparation were: (a)
Water and Wastewater: (i) the reconstruction and rehabilitation of water supply and wastewater facilities
all over the country particularly related to the protection of water sources, water treatment and disinfection
plants, pumping and transmission, and sewerage systems; (b) Electricity: (i) the rehabilitation of MV and
LV distribution network in the Greater Beirut area, (ii) the rehabilitation of MV and LV distribution
networks and customer connections to restore electricity supply in destroyed villages all over the country,
and (iii) the procurement of metering equipment; (c) Solid Waste: (i) the repair (where viable) of part of the
existing fleet of compactor trucks in Greater Beirut area, (ii) the procurement of 80 compactor/collector
trucks and 2760 containers, (iii) the development of priority areas for landfill, (iv) the rehabilitation of
existing compost plant at Karantina, and (v) construction of a road to the Amrousiyeh incinerator, and, (vi)
the operation and maintenance of the Amrousiyeh incinerator (two years) and Karantina Compost Plant
(one year) and collection of garbage in Greater Beirut; (d) Education: (i) the rehabilitation of the
goveurnent owned technical and vocational school buildings located throughout the country, (ii) the repair
and replacement of equipment in rehabilitated schools, (iii) the preparation and production of new student
textbooks and teacher guides, and (iv) training seminars for personnel and strengthening the Ministry of
Technical Education Vocational Training; (e) Housing: (i) the reconstruction and repair of damaged
houses, and (ii) the construction of new houses, giving priority to displaced households; and (f) Technical
assistance in support of: (i) the economic management and the restructuring of infrastructure services; (ii)
design, preparation and construction supervision of all the above activities ((a) through (e)); (iii) studies to
evaluate restructuring strategies in telecommunication, electricity, water, and wastewater sectors and (iv)
technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). In order to maintain some flexibility to adjust to
changing circumstances and priorities, including donor interests, the Project was designed to penmit a
reallocation of funds within each sector and between sectors based on yearly reviews of implementation
performance.
3.3.2  Implementation arrangements: Because of the shortage of adequate capacities in the sector
ministries, the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) was entrusted with the overall
responsibility of project management. In general, it coordinated and monitored implementation activities,
while the line ministries and agencies were directly responsible for program implementation. Under the
prevailing circumstances this arrangement was adequate. The CDR was entrusted with the overall
responsibility for implementation of the Project. To strengthen CDR's project management capacity, it
retained experienced consultants in a Project Management Unit (PMU). Actual implementation was
however vested on the Sector Implementation Units (SlUs), also staffed mainly by consultants, located
within the line ministries/agencies. Co-ordination between the PMU and SLUs was managed by a Technical
Co-ordination Committee (TCC), an advisory body created by and accountable to the CDR The TCC
comprised of high level members of the SIUs, the PMU and line ministries.
-3-



3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  Except for the original housing component, most of the project components were largely
implemented. However, reestimation of the original damage assessment resulted in cost overnms and
implementation delays. Initially, these were accommodated through appropriate reallocation of project
funds. The removal of the housing component (para. 3.1.3) made funds available that were reallocated to
the power sector. The 1996 external hostilities required additional financing for reconstruction works
(power, water supply and, later, a new housing component in South Lebanon) which was approved for
financing through a supplementary loan. The loan also included financing of cost overruns and
rehabilitation and extension of water supply facilities in Bekka Valley, Mount Lebanon and emergency
repairs in South Lebanon.
3.4.2 Chronology of amendments and extensions: The original loan was approved in February 1993
and, with the Supplementary loan approval of May 1996, it was amended three times and the original
Closing D'ate (December 31, 1996) extended four times. As mentioned above, the first amendment was
carried out in April 1995 to reallocate the funds of the housing component to the power sector. In February
1996, because of implementation delays arising out of revision of damage estimates, the Closing Date was
extended to December 31, 1998. Fresh external hostilities in April 1996 led to the Supplementary loan
approval, and the second amendment of the original loan agreement (in June 1996) was carried out to
introduce changes/reallocations and new procurement procedures. The third amendment of the loan
agreement (in July 1997), responding to new market conditions, permitted financing of accelerated courses
under the education component. In 1998, the Closing Date was extended again from December 31, 1998
by fourteen months to February 29, 2000 to accommodate implementation delays from a new
administration taking office. Subsequently, in March 2000, following the liberation of South Lebanon, the
Closing Date was extended to March 1, 2001 to allow rehabilitation works in previously occupied
territories; this was finally extended until March 1, 2002 to facilitate completion of all ongoing works.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The performance rating of the ICR for quality at entry of the Project was Satisfactory. The Project
was never subject to a QAG review but a review of Project concept, technical aspects, financial
management aspects and institutional capacity at entry would justify this rating. The sectors were chosen
with care and specific details were sought about the activities that were to be financed. It reflected
adequacy of sector knowledge, strength of Borrower ownership, and appropriate partnership arrangement
with other donors. As an emergency operation, it did not attempt to put policy reforms upfront as a
significant objective, and the objectives of strengthening GOL's institutional capability in implementing the
NERP was realistic given that the project was facilitating the strengthening of the CDR. The
implementation arrangements were detailed and set up satisfactorily (including necessary safeguards on
procurement, disbursement and financial management) during the preparatory stage of the Project. This
was instrumental in satisfactory implementation of the Project. Even in the original housing component
which was later dropped, the preparation team had taken great care to lay down the guidelines in terms of
beneficiary and intermediary eligibility. By preparing the project in six months, the preparation team also
excelled in speed of responsiveness - an attribute so important for such famergency rehabilitation project
Under the difficult circumstances that followed such'a long strife, the qt,ality of the preparation effort of
this complex operation was indeed exceptional.
3.5.2  The supplementary loan was also exemplary in responsiveness aid included many items which
were emergency rehabilitation. However, the supplemental loan also included some activities in the water
and wastewater sector which were not emergency rehabilitation in nature. This was to help the GOL
maintain regional balance of economic growth and achieve equitable development to include rural areas as
well. In attempting to respond fast on emergency items, the preparatory efforts of these non-rehabilitation
-4-



activities fell short of prevailing Bank norms, particularly in the areas of analytical work and community
participation. In the water and wastewater sector, a large treatment facility was built but no financing was
envisaged for influent (including house connections) and effluent connections. This was expected to be
undertaken by the local authority at a later stage.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Background:   The Project was implemented within the context of widespread damages and a
prolonged period of lack of maintenance of infrastructure facilities caused by the 17 years of conflict. In
the electricity sector, transmission facilities were severely damaged, grid interconnection was disrupted and
the distribution network (mainly in the greater Beirut area) had suffered heavily. Electricity supplies in
most areas were restricted to about six hours per day. In the water and wastewaters sector, water supply
facilities were heavily damaged and access to potable water was limited. All the 18 water treatment plants
were damaged and operating at reduced capacity. The unsatisfactory water quality threatened widespread
health hazards. In the solid waste sector, refuse collection equipment was either damaged or deteriorated as
a result of aging and lack of maintenance. Refuse was collecting in heaps along major roads and dumped
along the sea coast leading to health hazards and environmental degradation. In the vocational education
sector physical facilities and equipment were damaged and resulted in severely constraining the capacity of
the vocational schools. In the housing sector, the damages resulted in mass displacement of the population
from various regions of the country. The Project prepared within six months as an emergency operation
did not develop key quantitative indicators for outcome and outputs. As such, evaluation of achievement
through comparison of actual results on completion with appraisal targets (or last PSR targets) could not
be undertaken. Instead, the evaluation relies upon comparison of actual results at completion with that
prevailing at the time of appraisal. This is included in Annex-i.
4.1.2 The ICR assesses the project outcome as satisfactory. The key objective of the Project was to
restore a reasonable level of functioning infrastructure services, and strengthen the Government's
institutional capabilities in implementing the NERP. This was achieved under the Project On
implementation of the physical works, rehabilitation of the transmission system (funded by other donors),
and the distribution network in greater Beirut area, where about 50 percent of the country's population
resides, was completed quickly. Water and wastewater services of systems all over the country, from
North Lebanon to the South and in Mt. Lebanon, Beirut, and Beka'a, were restored. Solid waste collection
and disposal services began functioning for Greater Beirut and Tripoli areas and their many surrounding
municipalities. Vocational schools all over the country were repaired and became instrumental in
addressing the training needs in some of the key areas which were absent during the prolonged period of
hostilities. Repairs and rehabilitation of small houses in the South ultimately permitted the families to
return to their homes. Thus, the objective of restoration of vital infrastructure services was achieved
satisfactorily.
4.1.3  On institutional capacity building the overall accomplishment was modest. There were other
sectoral projects which accompanied this emergency operation duing its long imnplementation period. The
ERRP initiated reforms in almost all the sectors through studies. These have resulted in enactment of
appropriate laws in the respective sectors (para.4.1.5, 4.2.11). However, the various sectoral changes were
neither envisaged nor can be attributed fully to the Project During implementation, the Project and the
various sectoral projects that it ushered, began to envision a bigger role for the private sector under
appropriate sectoral regulatory environments. Judging by this more stringent standard, the Project has had
some success but till date these remain mostly "work-in-progress".
-5-



4.1.4 The institutional capabilities were strengthened most visibly in the CDR, which spearheaded
implementation of the NERP. CDR enjoys certain autonomy and is able to exploit its flexibility to handle
construction and other matters expeditiously. Its salary structure is more attractive than that of the public
sector in general pernitting CDR to attract and retain highly competent and qualified staff. CDR has
developed into the premier public institution in Lebanon effectively coordinating preparation and
implementation of all development projects financed by donor agencies. Through this Project and other
GOL initiatives, CDR has developed the skiDls to effectively coordinate with various donors as wel as
across various ministries.
4.1.5 At the ministerial level, the gains are mostly visible in the Ministry of Finance where the Project
supported technical assistance to the customs revenue collection system (by providing continuing support to
a completed Bank financed project), and later supported the introduction of VAT, both of which are key
components of the Government's fiscal stabilization program. In the telecommunication sector, the bill to
privatize a part of the MPT that provide regular telephone lines was recently ratified by the Parliament in
July 2002 and celular services are being successfully provided by two private entities. In the water and
wastewater sector, consolidation of 19 water supply authorities and wastewater functions vested upon
individual municipalities has been finalized through passage of various laws. All water supply functions
and wastewater activities are now covered by four regional water authorities that are accountable to the
Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW). However, these four authorities have not yet started functioning
as merged authorities. In solid waste sector, garbage collection services are being provided by private
entities funded by fees/taxes collected by the municipalities. In the power sector, following the completion
of the Restructuring Study, a draft Electricity Law was submitted to the Cabinet in 2001 and was finally
ratified by the Parliament in August 2002.
4.1.6 The successful outcome is tarnished by the long implementation process which can be attributed to
inaccuracies in the original damage assessment estimates (para. 3.2.1) and fresh damages caused from
extemal hostilities during implementation; this was quite unanticipated. Some of the repairs were from
damages incurred as late as in 2000, indicating the continued relevance of emergency rehabilitation in
Lebanon.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  In the power component priority was given to most urgent rehabilitation works of the distribution
network in the Greater Beirut area. In parallel to the Bank effort, other donors financed rehabilitation of
generation equipment, HV transmission systems, and other rehabilitation packages for other parts of the
country. While an accurate estimate of the nature and extent of the damages could not be ascertained
ex-ante, the uncertainty was tackled through the creation of a process which could quickly validate the
rehabilitation needs as and when presented, thereby, keeping control over the cost and time of
implementation. In this sector, the Project instaDled 186 km of MV lines and 246 km of LV lines,
rehabilitated 1287 sub-stations, built 71 new sub-stations and instaled 83,500 new energy meters for the
customers.
4.2.-2 In order to maintain a reasonable flexibility for changing circumstances and priorities, the Project
allowed reallocation of funds between sub-projects within a component and between components. When
the demand for financing of the housing component as envisaged during appraisal proved to be low
(because of availability of concessional finances from other donors), a realocation of funds to the power
component to complete the rehabilitation of distribution network in Greater Beirut and to build a National
Control Center (NCC) was made. However, when there was a series of delays and a major controversy
over the bid evaluation process undertaken by the EdL, implementation of the NCC was taken out of the
project scope and the funds were utilized to repair a,nd rehabilitate water supply systems in South Lebanon
- 6-



affected by more recent external hostilities (para. 4.2.6). Subsequently, financing for the NCC was
possible from the Arab Fund for Economic Cooperation and Development.
4.2.3 The Markabi Hydroelectric Power Plant was rehabilitated as an emergency response to damages
incurred from external hostilities during the implementation of the Project. The works restored 34 MW of
power generation capacity and rehabilitated the dispatch center of the Plant.
4.2.4 In the water and wastewater component the Project concentrated initially on completing small
works including the rehabilitation of water sources and treatment works, pumping stations, distribution
systems, storage tanks, and sewage networks where supplies could be put back into service quickly and
where pollution from damaged facilities was the greatest. At the end of implementation, 97 communities
were provided with small water works consisting of 58 springs and wells, 86 water chlorinating facilities,
133 water supply pumping stations, 126 kilometers of transmission and distribution network, and 430
water supply distribution reservoirs (50-1000 cubic meters). In addition, 98 communities were provided
with small sewerage systems with two sewage pumping stations, and 73 kilometers of sewerage network.
4.2.5 Partly aided by the supplementary loan, the Project implemented three larger water supply and
sewerage systems. While the small works (para 4.2.4) were well executed, the larger works were fraught
with design and implementation problems showing possibly the inherent difficulty with an il-executed
consultancy contract. The large (about US$13.0 million) time-based international consulting contract (for
design and construction supervision) permitted most of the consulting effort to be expanded for design work
alone with construction supervision left out for further procurement. While all of three components were
ultimately completed, these are currently functioning at a much lower level than designed maldng them
quite "inefficient". Out of an additional daily water production capacity of about of 25,000 m`/day of
Ba'albeck and Nabi Chit, only about 8,000 mn/day are currently being utilized because the Ba'albeck
Water Authority has not made enough connections to its consumers. The Ba'albeck wastewater treatrnent
works (13,000 m/day capacity) is designed on a larger coverage of a wastewater collection system and is
currently not operating because the influent and effluent systems are not in place. Inflow connections are
yet to be completed and there is still 1,500m of outflow pipework to be completed. At the minimum, it
would require 2,000 mn/day, and a follow-on Bank project is expected to provide the connections in two
years. Apart from the not being able to utilize the investment made, the expected maintenance cost of the
plant is around $140,000 per annum; this will prove to be a heavy financial burden on the Water Authority.
Lastly, the Metn and Barouk water system is underutilized by about 50 percent because the Fouar Antelias
water scheme feeding the Metn and Barouk system (as planned in the supplementary loan as a parallel
activity financed by the Government of Italy) was not undertaken on time. Within the scope of the three
large system development, rehabilitation work was done on 48 additional springs and wells, four water
treatment plants, 46 pumping stations, about 426 km of transmission and distribution network and 125
storage tanks.
4.2.6 After the liberation of South Lebanon in May 2000, five water supply and wastewater facilities
were identified for rehabilitation in the South. These systems at Siddekine-Bint Jbeil, Siddekine-Beit Lif,
Nabaa El Tasseh, rbl el Saqi, and Taybeh serve about 500,000 people in 140 communities, demonstrating
again the efficiency of the Project to implement small and well-defined works.
4.2.7 In the solid waste component, the Project procured 80 new compactor trucks for waste collection
throughout the country; repaired and rehabilitated 33 existing compactor trucks and. rehabilitated the
workshops in Beirut; procured 2,760 metal containers for country wide distribution; rehabilitated the
Karantina compost plant and the Amrossieh incinerator (and supported their operation and maintenance
- 7-



briefly); remedied the Tripoli coastal landfill and procured its mobile equipment; introduced successful
private sector participation in operation as well as garbage collection at Tripoli and in the Greater Beirut
area; and financed collection of garbage in Greater Beirut and Chouf areas for two years. Currently, the
operation and maintenance of the facilities at Karantina and Amrossieh are being financed out of the
Independent Municipal Fund. However, because of public protests on account of the pollution from the
exhaust, the Amrossieh incinerator can now function only as a sorting plant.
4.2.8 In the vocational and technical education component the Project rehabilitated and equipped 22
Government-owned technical and vocational schools located throughout the country. It rehabilitated
workshops at seven of these locations, and helped create an accelerated training program in painting,
plastering, brick laying, carpentry, tile setting, plumbing, aluminum work, electrical work, HVAC work,
and smithy. The programs trained over 9,000 participants.
4.2.9  In the housing component, the original plan was to provide long-term credit (upto 17 years) to
households whose housing conditions were seriously damaged as a result of the hostilities and who were
considered creditworthy by financial intermediaries. Funds from this component were reallocated to the
power component when, due to the availability of concessional finance, the housing component did not
disburse. However, following the liberation of South Lebanon, the component was revived and housing
grants were provided to 14,175 households for repairs and minor rehabilitation. This was to encourage the
return of displaced families to their original villages and towns.
4.2.10 In the technical assistance (TA) component, apart from financing the design, preparation, and
construction supervision of all physical works, the Project's main thrust was strengthening the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Finance, and undertaking various sectoral restructuring studies. The Project
financed two technical assistance sub-components for the Ministry of Finance: one to improve the revenue
collection (through cadastral studies and supporting the introduction of the ASYCUDA system) and to
strengthen economic and financial management and the other for the introduction of VAT in Lebanon.
4.2.11 In the telecommunication sector, the TA financed a study of restructuring of the sector and a
management contract that helped the Ministry of Post and Telecommunication (MPT) to reconstruct,
expand and manage the telephone systems. With the help of Canada Post, the Postal part of MPT became
Liban Post, a successful independent postal authority. A draft Law for Telecommunication services
privatization (including the land lines) was prepared under the Project, cleared by the Prime Minister and
the Council of Ministers (who made substantial changes); tis law was ratified by the Parliament in July
2002. In the electricity sector, a restructuring study and an environmental impact assessment for the power
sector were produced for a follow-on project which has recently been rated unsatisfactory in the ICR
Similarly a long-term strategy for the solid waste sector was produced for a follow-on operation, which was
partially cancelled subsequently. Finally, the TA for the water and wastewater sector produced the Water
Law. A plan has also been prepared on the basis of this law to streamline the sector from the current 19
water authorities into four regional authorities to improve overall service in the sector. In the early stages
of project implementation, the TA component for water and wastewater seator had also produced reports
on the environment and on policy options that provided a coherent view of environmental development in
the country. Subsequently, these reports aided the writing of Environmental codes which after discussions
at the Parliament were ratified as a law. Lastly, as a part of the preparatory process for the National
Environment Strategy and financed through the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance
Program (METAP), a diagnostic of the state of the environment and accompanying policy options were
produced under the Project
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
-8-



4.3.1 No formal and complete economic analysis (such as the calculation of the economic rate of return)
of the Project is attempted because the Project was an emergency, country-wide and complex, multisectoral
operation. Generally, the project rehabilitated many isolated items such as water sources, water pumping
stations and treatment plants, as in the water and waste-water sector, or distribution lines and substations,
as in the electricity sector. In some cases, the system was partially functioning and the rehabilitation of
these isolated items brought back the coverage of the system to its original capacity. In other cases,
because of the extent of the damage, the whole system had stopped functioning and the rehabilitation of the
entire system was required before it could start functioning again. Examples of such system rehabilitation
include the solid waste collection system in various municipalities and the greater Beirut electricity
distribution system. The emergency nature of the project did not permit the Bank to calculate the ex-ante
ERRs in all these system rehabilitation in various sectors all over the country. Ex-post calculations of
ERRs similarly would be impractical. In general, the ICR mission noted that the various investments
made attempted to rehabilitate the essential services, such as water and electricity supply or solid waste
collection and treatment, at a modest cost Even the vocational school rehabilitation followed such a
modest path where the idea was just to get them functioning without undue attention paid to "aesthetics".
4.3.2 However, for the three larger water and wastewater system rehabilitation and extension which took
place after the supplementary loan was approved, at Ba'albeck and Metn-Barouk, ERRs if calculated now
would possibly be negative because they are operating much below capacity or are non-operational. One of
them, the Ba'albeck waste water treatment plant built at a total cost of over US$6.0 million in direct costs
and US$140,000 as yearly maintenance costs, is not serving a single customer, and is not expected to start
serving any in the next two years. A follow-on Bank financed project is expected to redress matters.
4.3.3 For a similar investment in the electricity sector, the rehabilitation of the Markabi power plant (34
MW) which cost US$5.38 million, the ERR was found to be 12.0 percent. An altemative new investment
generating 34 MWs would have required between US$18.0 million and US$34.0 million indicating the
efficiency of rehabilitation over investment in a new unit in the electricity sector.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for such a multi-sectoral project and essentially similar as the ERR in such an open
economy.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project has played a catalytic role in the transformation of many public sector institutions in Lebanon.
First, because of the Project, the Government was able to demonstrate its ability to implement many
emergency rehabilitation activities, and today, it is in a much better position to attract donor interest in
many sectors. As mentioned earlier (para. 4.1.4), CDR has become quite skilled in this area. Second, the
Project through its various studies has improved the dialogue on public service provision and the role of
Government in various sectors. The rules of the game have definitely changed and, with some notable
exceptions, most legislators prefer strong private participation in all infrastructure activities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Following the 17 years of conflict, consultants were appointed to quickly assess the damages
incurred to the infrastructure stock and a Damage Assessment Report was finalized in 1993. In many
instances, the assessment was not based on any detailed or comprehensive study. In its effort to carry out
urgent rehabilitation and reconstruction needs, the GOL had to rely on overall recommendations of the
report and seek financing for the NERP of which the Project financed only certain components. However,
during implementation, with better understanding of the actual damages, the scope of works increased in
-9-



many instances. This resulted in cost over-runs and compelled the GOL to prioritize urgent works or seek
additional resources of external assistance. Also, as a result of better understanding of the scope of works
(including expansion in some cases), the implementation period increased, eg., the first year works in many
instances got completed only during the fourth year and the second and third year works which remained in
the Project (in water and waste-water) could not be completed before the end of the Project.
5.1.2 Implementation was also hampered substantially by continued regional instability. Many new
instances of emergency rehabilitation had to be addressed first in 1996 and then in 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were two crucial factors that were subject to government control. First, as explained above, during
implementation the scope of works increased in many instances. This required processing of a large
number of variation orders. For a brief period, approval of any variation order above 15 percent of the
original contract price required approval of the Council of Ministers. This evidently resulted in delays that
adversely affected implementation. Second, the Council of Ministers needed to approve and the Parliament
to ratify laws for sector restructuring. While at its design stage the Project aimed at institutional capacity
building of the existing line ministries, at the implementation stage, this effort gradually evolved to more
appropriate sector restructuring that would ultimately facilitate entry of the private sector. Establishing
enabling environment for private sector participation in Power, Water, Telecommunication, and Solid
Waste Management sectors were initiated and necessary Sector Development Policy Notes articulated.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As mentioned earlier (para. 3.3.2), the implementation arrangement of the project was quite detailed and
elaborate. During implementation, adequate counterpart' staff was to be seconded to the SIUs which
comprised of intemationally recruited consultants. This was to result in transfer of knowledge as a first
step towards institutional capacity building. However, very few counterpart staff opted to join the SIUs
because of additional work pressure without requisite compensation. This reduced significantly the
prospects of institutional capacity building. With heavy work load, the SIUs were overstretched which
sometimes resulted in inadequate supervision of implementation activities. In the initial years, a few cases
of poor site maintenance, illegal sub-contracting were reported by periodic Bank supervision missions.
Finally, when the EU funding for the expatriate staff at the SIUs ended in 1997, the Bank loan was used to
finance salaries of key SIU consultants. If the counterpart staff were available in the SIUs, such diversion
of loan funds (eannarked for reconstruction and rehabilitation work) for salary payments could have been
minimized.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs including contingencies, at the time of approval of the Supplementary loan was
US$293.1 million. The loan for US$225.0 million was to be complimented by US$68.1 million equivalent
of counterpart funds (US$58.1 million) and support from other donor agencies (US$10.0 million). By the
Closing Date, actual Project cost is estimated at US$294.9 million with financing from the Bank totaling
US$221.0 million complimented by counterpart funds (US$43.4 million) and other donor agencies
(US$30.4 million) totaling US$73.8 million. While actual Bank financing of US$221.0 million is close to
the original loan amount of US$225.0 million, fumding from GOL intemal sources for US$14.7 million was
replaced by additional financing made available from other donor agencies. A total of about US$4.0
million will be cancelled from the loan account
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 Current macroeconomic imbalances in Lebanon pose some difficulties to the sustainability of the
-10-



'physical investments made under the Project. In the initial period of the reconstruction program (1993 -
98), public investment, of which the Project was an important component, averaged over 7 percent of
GDP. The Government maintained an environment of low inflation, and stable exchange rate. As it could
not contain the fiscal deficit, it financed the investment program largely with domestic debt on commercial
terms. With interest payments on Government debt (currently around 170 percent of GDP) absorbing an
ever increasing share of public revenues, the sheer size of fiscal deficit (around 14 percent of GDP) impacts
the sustainability of the reconstruction effort and with it the operation and maintenance of infrastructure
facilities built under the NERP (and hence the Project), unless adequate service fees are collected for each
of the components. However, because most of the investments financed under the Project are considered
essential, customers in the various sectors could be expected to pay the service fees to operate and maintain
the investments.  Whenever private participation has been permitted, customers have either paid
appropriate fees directly or the activities have been sustained through use of a Fund financed through
collection of taxes (currently VATs) on utility bills - for example in solid waste collection and garbage
disposal. In the Telecommunication sector, entry of the private sector has provided much needed financial
resources for the Government. At the time of evaluation, the future net benefit flow from the investments
made under the Project is considered to be very resilient to risks. Consequently, the sustainability of the
main achievements of the project is considered likely.
6.1.2 In the power component, the investments in the Markabi power plant are currently maintained from
the sale of power by the Litany River Authorities (LRA) to EdL. However, the public sector enterprise
EdL is not financially viable and has to depend on Treasury subsidy for its sustainability. In view of the
continuing unsatisfactory financial performance, it is conceivable that EdL's payment to LRA on account
of power purchase could get deferred along with other reductions in usual operation and maintenance
expenditures. The restructuring study financed under the Project and the follow-on sectoral project, which
tried to bring about private participation, have laid the necessary requirements for change in the sector (eg.
privatization of EdL), and consequently for sustainability of the component.
6.1.3   The situation is somewhat similar for the water and waste water component. Some of the existing
water authorities have already been charging water tariffs (US$0.50/rn3 of potable water) enough to recover
operation and maintenance costs. The altemative cost of water from private tankers is about US$2.00/in'.
However, many water authorities, particularly in the South, have not been recovering costs and relying on
subsidies after the Government instructed them to supply water without charging customers during the
period of external occupation. This practice is about to change because all water authorities are now being
consolidated into four regional authorities under a Water Law, which permits them to recover costs from
their subscribers. Consequently, it is not inconceivable that these water authorities would be able to
recover operational and maintenance costs to sustain the investments.  The only real danger of
sustainability lies with Ba'albeck and Nabi Chit water system, Ba'albeck wastewater systems, and the
Metn-Barouk water system. In each of these, the authorities may be unable to recover costs soon enough to
operate and maintain the over-dimensionalized systems because there are not enough consumers connected
with the systems as yet.
6.1.4  In the solid waste component, the Federation of Municipalities of Tripoli (El Fai'ha) is already
recovering costs from funds made available by Independent Municipal Fund (LMF) and contributions of
member municipalities. In the Greater Beirut area, financing of private provision for solid waste collection
and disposal is being made through the IMF which generates its funds by charging taxes (currently VAT)
on other utility bills.
6.1.5 The technical and vocational training program and vocational schools rely on budgetary



expenditures and on external grant funding. With some adjustments, such as elimination of student
stipends and introduction of some private/alumni sponsorship, the inexpensive programs and schools can be
made more sustainable.
6.1.6    The housing component financed repairs for private individuals who are maintaining the
investments.
6.1.7   The investment in the MOF through the TA is generating substantial revenue for Lebanon. It is
the most sustainable investment component of the Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The rehabilitated systems in the various sectors are operational and form intrinsic part of the
respective institutions which operated the system before being damaged. For example, the EdL operated
electricity distribution network in Greater Beirut area before the conflict and is now entrusted again with its
operation. Similarly, the water and wastewater services which were rehabilitated all over the country are
being operated by the respective authorities (before they functionally merge to become regional water
authorities under the new Water Law). The only system which has not merged into regular operations is
the Ba'albeck wastewater treatment works. Once connections to consumers are completed, this facility will
become a part of the Ba'albeck water authority.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactorv. The Bank was
extremely receptive and responsive to the country's urgent reconstruction needs, and the Project was
prepared within six months. The war damages had caused severe risks to public health and the
environment  The Project, by providing emergency assistance to the sectors most affected - water,
wastewater, solid waste and electricity - helped bring back these essential services quickly and mitigated
the possible environmental and public health hazards.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. Throughout the long implementation of the
Project, supervision missions were carried out on a regular basis (Annex 4a provides further information on
staff skill mix and continuity). Given the multi-sectoral nature of the Project, it was difficult for the Bank
to mobilize all needed expertise required for carrying out a complete supervision mission. Bank staff with
specific expertise conducted supervision missions at different intervals. Consequently, the Project had
continuous supervision which helped the Bank respond quickly and effectively to all Borrower requests
including those for reallocation of funds and Closing Date extensions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank responded quickly to address the urgent reconstruction needs of the war ravaged country, and
preparation was very well focused. Close and continuous monitoring of the implementation activities
ultimately led to the completion of all activities. All through implementation, the Bank was flexible enough
that demonistrated adequate responsiveness towards Borrower's changing needs and priorities. Relocations
of funds between sub-projects within a component and between components were formalized whenever
necessary. Although the institutional strengthening (of the line ministries/agencies) component was modest,
adequate support through the provision of necessary TA for sector reforms and enactment of appropriate
laws are changing the role of the public sector entities. In their new roles, the public sector institutions are
expected to devolve their operation to the private sector and gradually shift their focus away from
-12 -



strengthening of their earlier functions in varying degrees. The implementation period of three years as
initially envisaged was too optimistic. A proper appreciation of the absorptive capacity of the country at
project start would have resulted in a more realistic time frame for project completion. On the whole,
oveall Bank performance was satisfactorv.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was carried out by the CDR and the sector Ministries within the Govemment's oveall
reconstruction program (NERP). The basis of the NERP was the Aid Coordination meeting of December
1991 chaired by the Bank, where the international donor community manifested intrest in supporting the
reconstruction of the economy. CDR was able to coordinate with the donors effectively and initiate the
rehabilitation process in a satisfactory manner. They understood what it would take to restore a reasonable
level of functioning of the infrastructure services, reduce social problems, and lay the foundation for
medium- term recovery; and prioritized the program accordingly. This fast pace of identification of
rehabilitation tasks and their prioritization was repeated for the supplementary loan and post-conflict work
in South Lebanon in 2000.
7.5 Government implementation perfornance:
The depth of the damage proved to be much more extensive than what was anticipated during the initial
assessment of the damages prior to start-up of the Project. As such, both the cost and implementation-time
were underestimated.  On experiencing delays and cost ovemms, the Government made necessary
adjustments and correctly transferred much of the larger works to new projects. It effectively coordinated
the efforts of various donors (except for the Metn Barouk water system) and transferred funds between
components efficiently (for example between housing and electricity and then back to housing). The
smaller works (rehabilitation) were accomplished satisfactorily but much behind the original schedule. In
1999, following a brief period of review (when implementation actually had slowed down), the Govermment
confirmed the overall strategy of the NERP, and continued to support the implementation of the Project as
planned. On the whole, Govemments implementation performance was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 CDR managed the project satisfactorily, coordinating effectively a complex set of activities and a
large number of sector Ministries, particularly in implementing the tasks of rehabilitation and repair. The
fiduciary aspects of the Project were also handled admirably. When inevitable problems with some
contracts arose, CDR sought and obtained cooperation from various entities including the contractors.
7.6.2 CDR was also directly involved in managing the studies and consultants in the technical assistance
component except those for the Ministry of Finance. Overall, the CDR was successful in managing the
studies, incorporating inputs from various sources and leading to technically sound recommendations. In
the water and wastewater sector, CDR was particularly effective in having a Water law passed and initiate
sector restructuring. In the telecommunications sector, the studies led to some restructuring of the sector
and, ratification of the law by the parliament.
7.6.3  EdL was the main implementing agency for the power sector components.    Except for
implementation of the NCC, all other physical components were completed satisfactorily. The follow-on
results were h,owever disappointing. Although the Project did not envisage any restructuring of the sector,
the follow-on Power Sector Restructuring and Transmission Project failed to implement the necessary
sector reforms. The study however remains as a source document for future restructuring of the sector.
7.6.4 At the end of the hostilities, the sector ministries were quite weak. Consequently, for this
- 13 -



emergency operation, the project designed SIUs staffed with consultants to implement most of the project
components (except for vocational training and housing components). Except for the large water and
watsewater system construction, the SIUs completed their assignments satisfactorily. In most cases strong
ownership roles were played by local water authorities (for phase one water and wastewater system
rehabilitation), EdL and Litani River Authority (for the electricity component), and the municipalities (for
the solid waste component). In the education component, school buildings were rehabilitated by the
Ministry of Public Works, whereas in the housing component the Lebanese Military played a crucial
coordinating role (with home owners and their contractors doing the repairs). The implementation of the
vocational education and housing components were done quite admirably.
7.6.5 The technical assistance (TA) for the Ministry of Finance (MOF) was implemented by a small
dedicated Unit within the Ministry. This Unit had been supported under a previous Bank loan and
comprises very knowledgeable staff. Under the Project, the Unit's efforts led to increasing public revenues
and decreasing processing time and paper work for the private sector.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1  In the implementation of the project, a number of important lessons have been learned or
reinforced. These include:
(a)    Quick response to an emergency can be effectively accomplished with the proper preparation
of an inventory of crucial, preferably modest, investments: The rehabilitation of small water and
wastewater system (including those in the South after the external hostilities ceased), the procurement of
equipment for solid waste collection and the support for solid waste disposal are all examples of this type
of investments. These were timely and designed well in light of the damage assessment reports. Apart
from  restoring essential services, such a focus on modest investment helps mitigate immediate
environmental and health hazards effectively. Sometimes when ex-ante assessments are difficult to make,
as was the case with the rehabilitation of Greater Beirut electricity distribution, cost and implementation
time can be controlled by creating a process which can validate rehabilitation needs as and when presented.
(b)    Combining "opportune" extensions/development works along with emergency works should
be avoided: Implementation of the small (but numerous) rehabilitation works was difficult enough in the
initial prevailing environment of capital and skilled labor constraints. The subsequent large investments in
water and wastewater at Met'n Barouk and Ba'albeck which required a lot of extensions are examples of
implemnenting non-emergency/development work along with emergency activities. This delayed timely
Project completion.
(c)    Streamlining and coordinating the rehabilitation effort through an autonomous entity is very
effective: The CDR provided and continues to provide such a role because emergencies caused from
similar incidences of extemal hostilities in Lebanon cannot be ruled out in the future. It also helped with
the compliance of project covenants on counterpart funding, procurement, accounting, and auditing.
(d)    Emergency operations should have modest sectoral reform objectives: Autonomous entities
undertaking emergency rehabilitation works have limited opportunity to bring about sectoral reforms. The
focus instead should be on initiating cost recovery and adequate maintenance of the new investments so that
sectoral reforms can be supported by strong financial health of sectoral institutions. The EdL for instance
- 14 -



delayed cost recovery initiatives and continued to rely on Government subsidies. Subsequently, the entity
became weak and now threatens sustainability of investments made in the power sector.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 15-



COUWNIL FOR DEVELOPMET & REocNsThCnCN
No.: 5291/1                                BEls   ZS/O8/2002
Mb. Fuaoe Cloles
WNSIP
The Woil Bank
Fat No: (202) 477-lm
(202) 4M.193
Subjet LEBNON-Emee        Rovey and Recousuebon Pr4e  (Loa 3S624LE).
Iinvkmente4o Cooipleti Repo (KZP)
Dear Ms. Cloure.
Refeece i made to Yew fix. dd 27/BM002, mlosim a pr Snel cofy d tX
bVMaftoft Com*tpemo      RpoU OCR   ft   ft fi  pa      Amx
RAAWWan P*ocL~~~~~~~~~~~an
Aft careW rvwe, r would      toe to  you t mmvmoinqoabjeciouato 6*
do_umept We do, however, have sautrss ons onanumba ratpandte     ooae
bdh  d    , as rea icted in venous pus ofthe pot, maly. e reladoo to P?b  Se
MumSo_ft ud Pdivae Seer Dfllpmat. We woul 1w to taD ths oot&y to
Upres our epprtdatio forthe ICR Tam's had w*A ad undeslt nd theaensiv
and veny olos. cooperfatin between di Bank Team and CDR during the prepwaraio of this
rq.
We wod like to intom you 6ti we have sethe Borowets conulbd  to the ERR IC,
On the occaso of de compeo of ts      d  wet va k dhs oppostnt to exir our
appreiaion for th valuippo, guiae rad pro*fsn advic ftcm succesive Bak
misuocs dums tw cows of th implmea 3on of dti poject.
We look forwad to A  contued co-operatioc with t Buk
Sincrly Your
Counci for Devel_pen
MARoo*u_



(b) Cofinanciers:
Although, the Project had other donors financing several components either jointly or in parallel, there was
no legal conditionality on co-financing arrangements. In absence of any formal co-financiers, no comments
were sought from other bi-lateral and multilateral financing agencies.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of pertinent project documents is listed out in Annex 7
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
| . e mat,lx a     . 9.            P          lswVPSR' e            .A  tu       tef    ine
(1) Power                             (1) Out of 1600 MW installed capacity, only
(a) Avalability of Power (hrsJday     500-600 MW In actual service. Supply  1(a) 24 his/day
(b) No. of consumers served          rationed to about 6 hrsiday           1(b) 461,500 LV Consumers and 1500 MV
consumers
(2) Water Supply                     (2) Water Supply: All treatment plants
(a) Overall availability of water (hrsJday) In  damaged and operated at reduced capacdty. 2(a) 24 hrs/day but only around 60 Vday
Lebanon                               Only 10% of chlorlnators functional. In 1990, reaches the consumer so practically the
80% of water samples collected from   availability is 6 hrs;day - 90% of the
springs, reservoirs and water distributon  populaton covered.
(b) Avallabirty at Baaaback-Nabi Chite  networks were poDuted.             2(b) 6 hrs/day
(c) Availability at Metn-Barouk                                            2(c) 6 hrs/day
3. No. of consumers served
(a) Baalbeck-Nabi Chite                                                    3(a) 159,142
(b) Mein-barouk                                                            3(b) 263,821
4. Wastewater connecton               Wastewater No functioning sewage
(a) Nabatieh                         treatment In the country.             4(a) 24%
(b) Beirut                                                                 4(b) 98%
(c) Mount Lebanon                                                          4(c) 67%
(d) North Lebanon                                                          4(d) 54%
(a) South Lebanon                                                          4(e) 42%
(f) Bekaa                                                                  4(f) 41%
(5) Solid Waste                       Solid waste coflecton equIpmenrt and
(a) Area covered (square km)          vehides almost entirely destroyed. refu  5(a) Around 50 square kilometers
(b) No. of people served              piled up along streets, vacant lots and the  5(b) Around 1.3 million
sea coast
(6) Education                         Most schols, vocational and technical
(a) No. of students and teachers trained  training colleges severely damaged  6(a) 9,033
(7) Housing                           Nearly one quarter of the housing stock either
(a) No. of people benefted            danmaged or destroyed.                7(a) Around 85,000
(8) Technical Assistance
- percentage of Govt. revenue colleded  VAT not in use                     Around 16%
through VAT
Note: These indicators were developed at the time of ICR. No projections were available in the last PSR. The
entries in the second column are indicative of actuals at the time of appraisal.
- 18-



Output Indicators:
w  ;,,  lndlcatortMatrlx. ;  . ...........   .Projected In last PSR .  ActualILsest,EsUmate..-
(1) Power
(a) Km of distributon line rehab. (in greater                            1(a) 186 Km MV and 246 Km LV
Beirut)
(b) Rehab. of sub-stations                                               1(b) 1,287
(c) New substations                                                      1(c) 71
(d) MW available through rehab.                                          1 (d) 34 MW made avaiiable and 83,500 new
energy meters were installed
(2) Water and Wastewater
(a) No. of sources/bore holes rehab.                                     2(a) 106
(b) Additional water availability                                        2(b) 24,500m3 per day for Baalbeck area
(c) No. of water treatment plants rehab.                                 2(c) 4
(d) No. of pumping stations rehab.                                       2(d) 179
(e) Km. of dibution network rehab.                                       2(e) 551.6km
(f) No. of storage tanks rehabilitated                                   2(f) 555
(g)No. of sewage collector rehab.                                        2(g) 852
(h) No. of wastewater pumping statlons                                   2(h) 2
(i) No. of new treatment plants                                          20) 1
(3) Solid Waste
(a) Cmpst plant handling of solid waste                                  3(a) 400T per day
(b) Incinerators handling of salid waste                                 3(b) 200 T per day
(c) Garbage collecton in tons/day                                        3(c) 650 T per day
(4) Education
(a) Rehab. and fumishing of VT contrs                                    4(a) 22
(5) Housing
(a) No. of houses repaired/rehabilitated                                 5(a) 14,175
(6) Technical Assistance
(a) Inorease In tax collecton (customs)                                  6(a) Done
(b) Introduction of VAT                                                  6(b) Done
(c) Ust of studies completed                                             6(c) - Telecom Sector - Restructuring Study
- Solid Waste Sector - Long Term Strategy
Report
- Electricity - Restructunng Study, Power
(d) Ust of laws passed                                                   Sector Environmental Impact Assessment.
(d)Water, Electridty, Environment and
(e) No.of ministres and GOL agencies                                     Telecommunicaton laws.
provided with TA
End of project
Note: These indicators were developed during the ICR stage and earlier targets during implementation were not
available.
19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
pralA"    bsUmSe~'~~prI
P roject Cost By Component               US.iI'i ' _m+1. X____________
Power (Original loan - US$41.20)                     79.70           51.97           65.2
Water and Waste Water (Original loan - US$70.50)    122.20          130.91          107.1
Solid Waste (Original loan - US$45.00)               45.00           41.01           91.1
Education (Original loan - US$18.70)                 18.70           18.20           97.3
Housing (Original loan - US$38.50)                    0.00           15.61
Technical Assistance (Original loan - US$10.00)       10.00          20.06          200.6
Emergency Repair/rehab.(Original loan - US$0.00)      17.50          17.09           97.7
Total Baseline Cost                                 293.10          294.85
Total Project Costs             293.10         294.85
Total Financing Required             293.10          294.85
Appraisal estimate implies cost figures as revised during finalization of Supplementary Loan. The break-down of
the original loan amount totalling US$175 million is shown in the first column. During appraisal (of the Original
loan), there was a Housing component totalling US$38.5 million of which Bank financing was for US$25.0
million. Subsequently, this amount was reallocated to the Power Sector. At a later stage, following liberation of
South Lebanon the US$13.3 million was made available through realloctaion for repair/rehabilitation of damaged
houses in the South.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
. ,ndftit.C,ategoi:y    i.,, IProciWenien't';            @    l Mete:d  i , *' .'.; -ta.o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'C                                 tlil&Cdst
1. Works                      52.20        40.30         38.50         22.00        153.00
(38.30)       (31.20)       (25.00)       (0.00)      (94.50)
2. Goods                     114.70         0.00          4.80          0.00        119.50
(106.00)       (0.00)        (4.40)       (0.00)       (110.40)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         20.60         0.00         20.60
(0.00)        (0.00)       (20.10)       (0.00)       (20.10)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.0000) (00)              (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      166.90        40.30         63.90        22.00        293.10
(144.30)       (31.20)      (49.50)       (0.00)       (225.00)
-20-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Pr6cureoment Method.                      TtaIbst
,;Expendltureo,Cate gory"   IB        WN&BN                              F        00
1. Works                      102.36         19.35         0.00          0.00         121.71
(67.01)       (14.06)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (81.07)
2. Goods                       70.35         0.00          7.43          0.00         77.78
______________________       (70.35)        (0.00)        (6.84)        (0.00)       (77.19)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          53.08         0.00         53.08
(0.00)        (0.00)       (42.29)        (0.00)       (42.29)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          42.28         0.00         42.28
(0.00)        (0.00)        (20.47)       (0.00)       (20.47)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       172.71        19.35         102.79         0.00        294.85
(137.36)       (14.06)       (69.60)       (0.00)       (221.02)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
: -rF       1   t      SEXU '  -Appr aihsalEstfilnate,;  ia .| c, test Estifmate *  i | ' e.h fA: ' i'
________________ '  ,~i~ C;, ,', TaKn              Balik '_.'t,f,6^  ................. vGovt.  CoF.  Ban-k:. - ov  CoF.
Power                   60.00     19.70     0.00     51.97      0.00     0.00     86.6   0.0    0.0
WaterSupp.Wastewater    95.00     17.20     10.00    84.21      16.30    30.40    88.6   94.8  304.0
Solid Waste             30.00     15.00     0.00     21.66     19.35     0.00     72.2  129.0   0.0
Education               15.00     3.70      0.00     14.70      3.50     0.00     98.0   94.6   0.0
Housing                 0.00      0.00      0.00     13.27      2.34     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Technical Assistance    10.00     0.00      0.00     19.92      0.14     0.00    199.2   0.0    0.0
Sub-Total              210.00     55.60    10.00     205.73    41.63     30.40    98.0  74.9   304.0
Emergency repalr/rehab  15.00     2.50      0.00     15.29      1.80     0.00    101.9   72.0   0.0
Total   *               225.00    58.10     10.00    221.02    43.43     30.40    98.2   74.8  304.0
Co-financing for the Water/Wastewater sector includes joint financing from EIB of around US$20.40 million; this
was not considered during preparation of the Supplemental loan.  The Emergency repair/rehab includes
rehabilitation of the five water supply projects in the South and the rehabilitation of the Markabi Hydro Plant
(US$5.38 million).
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Introduction: At the time of appraisal, there was no economic analysis done for any of the components or
sub-components. As the Project was emergency reconstruction and rehabilitation in nature such detailed
analysis was not possible during the short project processing time of about six months. However, during
the time of preparing the ICR economic analysis of a selected sub-component of the rehabilitation works
(the Markabi Power Plant rehabilitation component) was conducted and the assumptions and results of the
economic analysis are discussed below.
Markabi Power Plant: The 34MW (17x2) hydro-electric power plant was commissioned in 1962 and the
economic life of the plant was expected to last until 2012. During the hostilities of April 1996, the Plant
was damaged and soon after approval of the supplemental loan, immediate rehabilitation needs of the
power plant was assessed and about US$5.38 million allocated for the rehabilitation works. These were
carried out during 1997-98 following which the economic life of the plant was increased and expected to
last until 2022. During construction phase, the energy output of the plant was declining and the
rehabilitation works increased reliability and the output of the power plant.
Economic Analysis: The economic analysis compares the actual capital investment made on account of the
rehabilitation works and annual incremental cost of operation and maintenance (O&M) of the Power Plant
with the expected incremental benefits accruing as a result of the rehabilitation works. The analysis is
based on the following assumptions:
(a) Because of dry conditions and poor hydrological inflow to the reservoir, overall power production
during the period 1999-2001 had declined sharply from 97,930,OOOkWH to 18,024,OOOkWH, a reduction
by more than 80%/o. Incremental production during this period (accniing out of the rehabilitation works)
has been derived by using the ratio of incremental production to total production for 1998 (average
hydrological year);
(b) Because of the rehabilitation investments made, the plant life is assumed to have increased by 10 years
from 2012 to 2022. However, since the original equipment will have been in operation for 50 years by
2011, the total production starting 2012 is attributed to the rehabilitation investments made during
1997-1998 and is assumed to be derated to 37,560,976 kWH;
(c) Incremental benefits: Since the power produced by the power plant is sold only to EdL, bulk supply
tariff (BST of LL41/kWH) has been assumed as a proxy for the benefits accnied. Incremental benefits are
determined by using the product of incremental production (kWH) made available and the B.S.T. for power
sold to EdL; and
(d) Incremental costs: These have been apportioned out of the total O&M costs by using a factor of
incremental production to total production. Starting 2012, the incremental O&M costs are assumed to be
the same as the total O&M costs.
The Base Case scenario indicates the Economic Rate of Retuin to be 12%. Several sensitivity analyses
were carried out to test the robustness of the assumption used. The results are as follows:
- 22 -



Results of Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario                                              ERR
1. Base Case                                          12%
2. Projected benefits (- 15%)                          9%
3 Projected O&M costs (+15%)                          11%
4. Benefits (-15%) and costs (+15%)                   9%
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Year      Capital Exp.  lncr. 0 & M  Incr. Benefits in  Net Benefits in
LL        Cost in LL        LL            LL
1997        3228000000            0              0   -3,228,000,00
1998       4842000000    387,317,472   1,555,130,000  -3,674,187,472
1999                     309,853,977     439,249,192   129,395,215
2000                     290,488,104     562,446,165   271,958,061
2001                     271,122,230     286,221,414    15,099,184
2002                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2003                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2004                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2005                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2006                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2007                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2008                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2009                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2010                      269,500,000   1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2011                      269,500,000   1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2012                      269,500,000.  1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2013                      269,500,000   1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2014                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2015                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,00
2016                      269,500,000   1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2017                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2018                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2019                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2020                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2021                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
2022                     269,500,000    1,540,000,000  1,270,500,000
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identlfication/Preparation*
12/30/1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/30/1992                 7   Sr.Municipal Engineer, Reg.
Proc. Advisor, Sr. Fin.
Analyst, Sr. Fin. Officer,
Pr.Municipal Engineer,
Power Engineer, Urban
Specialist
5/8/1993                   7    Sr.Municipal Engineer, Reg.
Proc. Advisor, Sr. Fin. Analyst,
Sr Fin. Officer, Pr.Municipal
Engineer, Power Engineer,
Urban Specialist
Supervision
8/19/1993                   3   Urban Spec. Sr. Fin. Analyst,
Sr. Fin. Officer, Pr.
Municipal Engineer
11/16/1993                  5   Sr.Municipal Engineer, Sr. Fin.
Analyst, Envir. Specialist, Pr.
Municipal Engineer, Power
Specialist
2/4/1994                    3   Sr. Fin. Snalyst, Private Sector
Spec., Sr. Power Spec.
4/30/1994                   5   Consultant, Sr. Fin. Analyst,
Priv. Sect. Spec., Pr. Municipal
Engineer, Sr. Power Spec.
7/23/1994                   5   Consultant, Sr. Fin. Analyst,    HS            S
Priv. Sect. Spec., Pr. Municipal
Engineer, Sr. Power Spec.
10/14/1004                  4   Consultant, Sr. Fin. Analyst,    HS           HS
Priv. Sect. Spec., Pr. Municipal
Engineer
7/19/1995                   4   Consultant, Sr. Fin. Analyst, Sr.  HS          S
PSD Spec., Princ. Engineer
2/11/1996                   3   Consultant, Sr. Fin. Analyst, Sr.  S           S
Projects Officer
7/25/1996                   3   Sr. Fin. Analyst, 2 Human         S            S
Resources Spec.
7/14/1997                   1   Sr. Sanitary Eng.                 S            S
9/30/1997                   1   Sr. Sanitary Eng.                 S            S
12/15/1997                  2   Sr. Sanitary Eng., Engineer       S            S
5/12/1998                   2   Sr. Sanitary Eng.                 S            S
-24-



Engineer-Consultant
2/16/1999                   3   Sector Leader, Fin. Analyst,     S            S
Sanitary Eng.
11/18/1999                 2   Fin. Analyst, Sanitary Eng.       S            U
2/2/2000                    2   Fin. Analyst, Sanitary Eng.      S            S
6/25/2000                   2   Fin. Analyst, Sanitary Eng.      S            S
12/8/2000                  2   Fin. Analyst, Sanitary Eng.       S            S
4/20/2001                   2   Fin. Analyst, Sanitary Eng.      S             S
12/1/2001                  4   Fin. Analyst, Sanitary Eng.,      S            S
Financial Management Spec.,
Proc. Spec.
ICR
5/31/2002                  2    Sr. Fin. Analyst, Sr.
Economist - Consultant
* Because of the emergency nature of the project, there was no identification/preparation missions prior to
Appraisal. The date shown above for identification/preparation mission implies it was done along with appraisal.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation*                                    380,258
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                    937,465
ICR                                                             20,000
Total                                                         1,337,723
Notes: The costs figures shown above associated with Identification/Preparation and Supervision exclude:
(1) Identification/Preparation TF026410 - $ 10,070
(2) Supervision          TF039389 - $ 37,774
- 25-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
L Physical                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
El Financial                         O H OSUOM O N O NA
a Institutional Development          O H O SU * M O N 0 NA
l Environmental                      O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction           O H OSUOM ON         * NA
El Gender                      OH   OSUOM ON        *NA
L Other (Please specify)       OH OSUOM ON          * NA
L Private sector development         0 H O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
LI Public sector management          0 H O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM ON * NA
-26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
OII Lending                                        OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
LI Preparation                                     OHS OS       O  U  O HU
L Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
LI Implementation agencyperformance                OHS OS       O U    O HU
LI Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7a: Aide-Memoire (Memorandum of Understanding - MOU) from the Completion Supervision
Mission (December 2001)
Amnex 7b: Boffowees Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (August 2002)
The following documents and information pertaining to the Project are available in the Project files:
(i) Memorandum of the President;
(ii) Loan Agreement;
(iii) Amendments to the Loan Agreement;
(iv) Memorandum of the President for the Supplemental Loan;
(v) Back-to-Office Reports including Mission Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports;
(vi) Project Progress Reports; and
(vii) Various studies related to sector restructuring.
- 28 -



ANNEX 7a
LEBANON
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT (ERRP)
Memorandum of Understandine
(Mission November 26 to December 1, 2001)
1.     Messrs. Mohammed Benouahi (Team Leader), Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management
Specialist), Imad Saleh (Procurement Specialist), and Lars Rasmusson (Consultant) carried out a
supervision mission of the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) from November
26 to December 1, 2001. The mission met with the President of CDR, CDR staff, and representatives for
consultants and contractors. Field visits were made to sites for ongoing contracts for Ba'albeck and Nabi
Chit water supply and Ba'albeck wastewater treatment works. The supervision covered water supply and
sanitation, which apart from technical assistance is the only still ongoing project component. Since
previous mission a component on the financing of VAT has been added and is also addressed.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION:
2.     Status/Issues and Actions to be Taken:
a)     Ba'albeck and Nabi Chite Contract:
The contract including 9 independent water supply systems is scheduled for completion by end
December 2001, when all systems should have been handed over;
Despite assurances given by EDL on the provision of satisfactory power supply this will not
materialize for the time being, and a contingency arrangement with the installation of 18 generators
has been decided upon. Current status on this matter is: (i) quotations, which have been received
through local shopping, have been evaluated and with contract being prepared for an amount of
about US$480,000; and (ii) delivery and installation are scheduled to take place within a 3-month
period. The mission emphasized the importance of maintaining the time schedule, since any
expenditures to be incurred after the closing of the loan, March 1, 2002, cannot be financed under
the Bank loan;
With the installation of the generators the 9 water supply systems would technically be operational.
Population coverage will be extended in pace with the laying of service connections, for which
bidding documents have been prepared covering a first phase;
Satisfactory operation and maintenance would be assured through initial entering into a proposed
service contract, which subsequently would be replaced by a management contract; and
The 15% counterpart payment has not been paid recently and of committed Bank payment
amounting to US$23.5 million about US$17.4 million has been disbursed. Remaining 6.1 million
would thus be disbursed before the closing of the loan account by July 1, 2002. The retention
money, amounting to about US$2.00 million, was proposed by the mission to be released at talcing
over, with 50% of corresponding amount to be converted into a Bank Guarantee to be maintained
through the defects liability period.
The Bank recommends that CDR:
29-



Enter into a contract for the generators and ensure their speedy delivery and installation;
Process the appointment of consultant for the preparation of tender documentation for a service
contract; and
At taking over convert 50% of the retention money into a Bank Guarantee.
b)     Ba'albeck Wastewater Treatment Works:
*      The construction works have proceeded satisfactorily with completion scheduled to end-December
2001. There after the same contractor would continue with operation and maintenance during a 12
month-period with relevant costs to be covered through local budget allocations;
*      The first stage design capacity of the treatment works corresponds to 13,000 m3/day and for its
testing for commissioning about 2,000 m3/day would be required. However, this flow is currently
not available and can only be made available through connections to be made to the recently
extended collection system; and
The outfall main for treated effluents will need to be extended about 1.5 kmn for discharge into a
natural ditch. Presently, the outfall main ends in a manhole from where no discharges can be
made. The extension of the outfall cannot be carried out under the ERRP and unless covered under
any other arrangement, it will be included under proposed Beka'a Region Water and Wastewater
Project. However, this implies that the commissioning of the treatment works and their utilization
will be delayed correspondingly.
The Bank recommends that CDR:
*      Take all necessary actions to achieve adequate flows to the treatment works and to extend the
outfall main to enable commissioning and initial operation; and
*      At taking over convert 50% of the retention money into a Bank Guarantee.
c)     Metn and Barouk Contract:
*      Construction works have mainly been completed and most of the water supply and distribution
facilities have been handed over to local water authorities for operation and maintenance; and
*      As stated during previous missions, the implementation of the Fouar Antelias water supply scheme
is essential for Metn water supply and for the proper utilization of investments made under this
contract. The Government, after a previous rejection, has now decided to go ahead with this
scheme with financing already secured under an Italian protocol.
The Bank recommends that CDR:
*      Convert 50% of the retention money into a Bank Guarantee.
d)     Emergency Water Projects on the South of Lebanon:
The five water projects were treated as emergency projects and were provided special consideration
by the Bank. The details and status of the five projects are as follows:
*      Siddikine-Bint Jbeil Project: This project has been completed and all the contract amount is fully
disbursed.
*      Nabeh el Tasseh: The current progress in implementation is satisfactory. 28% of the contract
value has been disbursed to date.
- 30 -



*      Ibl el Saqi: This project is physically near completion, however no disbursement has been
executed yet
Taybeh Water Station: The current progress in implementation is satisfactory, however no
disbursement has been executed yet
*      Siddikine - Beit Leif Water Project: the progress of this project may extend beyond the loan
closing date because of the re-bidding of this project due to a substantial changes in scope. In case
any works were executed beyond the loan closing date, these have to be financed by the
Government.
The Bank recommends that CDR:
*      Follow up on the disbursement, particularly for those contracts which did not request any
disbursement yet.
*      Follow up with the Council of the South on the implementation of the Siddildne - Beit Leif project
to ensure completion prior to the loan closing date.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
6.     The TA includes: (i) contract for an Institutional Specialist for restructuring of the water supply
and sanitation sector, for whom financing will terminate with the closing of the loan; (ii) contracts for
technical assistance for CDR; and (iii) for the preparation of proposed Beka'a Region Water and
Wastewater Project the following consulting services will be financed under the loan:
*      The preparation of environmental assessment reports;
*      The preparation of design and tender documentation for the installation of service connections in
the Ba'albeck Nabi Chit area;
*      The preparation of tender documentation for a service contract in the Ba'albeck Nabi Chit area.
VALUE ADDED TAX (VAT)
7.    Implementation of the Value Added Tax
The Government of Lebanon has requested the assistance of the Bank in the process of the implementation
of the Value Added Tax (VAT) that is scheduled to be in place by January 2002. The components, and
status of each, are as follows:
*      The provision of hardware equipment for the implementation of the Value Added Tax: this
component includes the provision of office technology related equipment to enhance the capacity of
MoF. The estimated budget of this package is $700,000 and was released through International
Competitive Bidding. The bidding process has been launched and is currently under evaluation by
CDR This process is at a critical stage as the contract has to be awarded with adequate time for
delivery and installation prior to the loan closing date. Any further delays in the evaluation process
and prompt award of contract will further jeopardize this process.
Individual national consultants: under this component 35 individual consultants are to be recruited
to support the MoF capacity for implementing the VAT. The total budget of this component is $
490,800. Up to this date, 18 individual consultants have been recruited.
Individual international consultants: This component requires the services of two individual
consultants with international experience at a total of $ 175,000. On December 3, 2001 the CDR
requested the Bank no-objection to recruit one of the international consultants. However, the Bank
considers that the TOR for this consultant lacks necessary details on deliverables and scope,
- 31 -



although the Bank has previously provided comments on this TOR to CDR
On November 30, 2001 the MoF informed CDR that it needs to re-allocate $245,000 to purchase
necessary office equipment for the implementation of the VAT and that it will provide CDR at a
later stage with the required specifications and bidding documents. In principal, the Bank has
no-objection to this request on condition that the procurement process is launched, and contracts
awarded by mid January to suppliers who have these off-the- shelf equipment available for
delivery. The need for ensuring that all goods and services should be delivered prior to the closing
date of the loan has been emphasized in all correspondences and meetings on this project. However,
the response of the MoF on the preparatory steps for the implementation has not been adequate so
far. It is very important that the MoF staff responsible for the implementation of this project
conduct all the preparatory steps in line with the Bank's procedures and with utmost efficiency to
ensure the rapid implementation of this vital project within the available time constraints.
The Bank recommends:
*      The prompt award of contracts for the office technology and office equipment packages.
*      Ensure the delivery of all goods and services prior to the loan closing date.
FUNDING AND DISBIURSEMENT
8.     The loan balance is approximately $ 25.3 million including the Special Account. Committed funds
amount to $ 21.3. These funds are expected to be all disbursed. Contracts in the pipeline for VAT office
technology, office equipment and extension of supervision services for Ballbeck and Metn may amount to
$1.8 million. The balance of $2-2.5 million will be cancelled from the loan.
PREPARATION OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
9.     CDR will submit to the Bank the Borrower's contribution of the ICR within 6 months after the
closing of the loan.  The Bank will, for this purpose, provide CDR with relevant background
documentation including an ICR for a similar project.
Mohammed Benouahi
Team Leader
World Bank Mission
December 8, 2001
-32-



CONIL K DEVELOPMENT & kREcoN&m
BUfW&Tr LEBANON
No S2S711                                     Debul. 22V2002
Mr. Emmanuel Fomstier
Diector
MNSD
The Wodd 1ak
FAx. No.: (202) 4770342
(202)477-1993
Subject Leboui.ER? (  oUt NO. 3562 8eBwu's C       t8 
implementati Conuplefice Repast (ICRt)
Dnat }. Foetier,
Pease &n     sed   a cop  of tie Bonwew's costibuoD to de
Iplemenm_iaa Completm Report (ICR) for  Ee      Reomsuou
mad Rdbabilition ProjeoL
TWA yOu &r yoW ooperadai
Sinocrely Younf
Cowci for Developmet
hminalA.Rkt ni          ~       3
- 33 -



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT (ERRP)
(Loans 35620-35621)
Borrower's Contribution
To the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
August 2002
-34-



TABLE Of CONTENTS                                                    Page No.
1.    Introduction                                                          3
2.     Project Objectives                                                   3
3.     Project Description and Organisation                                 3
4.     Achievement of Project Objectives                                    4
5.     Implementation Record and Performance                                9
6.     Project Sustainability                                                10
7.     Bank Performance                                                      11
8.     Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned                              I1
-35-



EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION & REHABILITATION PROJECT (ERRP)- Borrower's
Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
1.    lNTRODUCTION
The present report is the contribution of the Government of Lebanon (GoL) to the Implementation
Completion report (ICR) of the Emergency Reconstruction and Recovery Project (ERRP) and the ensuing
Supplementary Loan to the ERRP. The ERRP was equal to US$223.9 million and was financed by the
GoL (US$35.4 million), the private sector (US$13.5 million) and the World Bank (US$175.0million).
The Supplementary Loan to the ERRP covered a project equal to US$69.2 million and was financed by the
GoL (US$ 9.20 million), Government of Italy (US$ 10.0 million) and the World Bank (US$ 50.0 million).
This ICR presents the borrower's own assessment of the project and an evaluation of the performance of
involved parties
2.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The overall objectives of the ERRP were to assist the Government in the rehabilitation, repair and
reconstruction of damaged physical and social infrastructure facilities and housing; and strengthening the
Government's institutional capabilities in implementing the National Emergency Rehabilitation Program.
The Supplementary Loan to the ERRP has been of complementary nature to the project and has aimed at
assisting the Government in the rehabilitation and immediate extension of essential water supply and
wastewater facilities where financing gaps have arisen due to additional funding requirements, namely in
parts of the Beka'a Valley and Mount Lebanon, in addition to providing funding for emergency repair and
rehabilitation in the sectors covered under the ERRP, particularly in the power, water and housing sectors
following the Israeli military aggression in April 1996 ("Operation Grapes of Wrath"), as well as,
rehabilitation of basic water schemes in South Lebanon in the aftermath of its liberation in 2000.
3.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ORGANISATION
The ERRP and Supplemental Loan 'ultimate" project components included the following:
(i)    Reconstruction, rehabilitation and/or extension of treatment, disinfection, pumping, transmission
and distribution facilities in the water sector, rehabilitation of wastewater facilities and the
protection of water sources
(ii)  reconstruction and rehabilitation of electricity distribution facilities and networks and upgrading of
existing facilities;
(iii)  purchase of equipment and the rehabilitation, creation and operation of facilities for solid waste
collection and disposal;
(iv)  reconstruction and re-equipment of damaged vocational and technical education facilities and the
provision of skills and vocational training;
(v)    reconstruction and repair of damaged houses; the emergency repair of water systems, a
hydroelectric power plant and its control system and the rehabilitation of Water Schemes in the
South
(vi)  technical assistance in support of the economic management and the restructuring of infrastructure
services.
- 36 -



Some of the initial project components have been revised, mainly, the original housing component, which
was cancelled because other donors provided loans with softer tenns. After an amendment of the loan
agreement, funds were reallocated to the power sector. Later, to repair damaged houses in the South
following Israeli aggression, a new housing grants' component was incorporated in the supplemental loan
to allow repairs and some of the funds allocated to power were reallocated to the rehabilitation of five
Water Schemes in the South in 2000. In the context of the VTE component, the provision of new textbooks
and Teachers' guides for Vocational and Technical Education has been cancelled and the funds were
reallocated to accelerated Training for the provision of construction and industrial skills.
The borrower was the GoL, represented by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR), the
implementing agency. The beneficiaries of the ERRP were the Ministries of Energy and Water, Interior and
Municipalities, Environment, Technical and Vocational Education, Post and Telecommunications, and
Finance; Electricite du Liban; High Relief Committee and Council for the South.
4.     Achievement of Project Objectives
The overall objectives of the ERRP were fully achieved (with the exception of the original housing
sub-loans component) and the repair and reconstruction of damaged physical and social infrastructure
facilities under the project were completed. By financing the rehabilitation of the infrastructure in the
damaged areas, the ERRP contributed to Government efforts towards the return of the displaced population
in the Greater Beirut area and the destroyed villages of Lebanon. The Government's institutional
capabilities in implementing the National Emergency Rehabilitation Program were further strengthened
through the use of intemational expertise at the CDR and concerned sector ministries. Furthermore, the
technical assistance component was instrumental in promoting the fiscal reform agenda of the GoL.
The project initiated also a review process of appropriate government policies towards sector restructuring
and improving cost recovery in the power, water, wastewater and solid waste sectors. Under the
Supplementary Loan to the ERRP, the funding proved timely as it helped to finance the emergency repairs
and contributed to the rehabilitation and immediate extension of key and essential water supply and
wastewater facilities in parts of the Bekaa Valley, Mount Lebanon, and South Lebanon (see para 2 above).
Moreover, the project helped address the GoL goal of equitable development. Below is a summary of
project achievements by project component:
4.1    Water Supply and Wastewater
At the start of the ERRP, water supply facilities were severely damaged and access to clean piped water
was very limited. The water quality was unsatisfactory causing widespread health hazards and all 18 water
treatment plants were damaged and operating at reduced capacity. Operation and maintenance suffered
from inadequate organizational structures and a lack of skilled staff. Untreated wastewater from coastal
communities was discharged directly into the shores while wastewater from inland communities was
discharged into rivers and streams used for domestic water supplies by downstream communities.
The objectives of the ERRP in the water and wastewater sector were fully in line with Government
priorities. These included the reduction of the detrimental health effects from damaged water and
wastewater systems and the improvement of the level of service to pre-war standards. This was achieved
through investments under the ERRP loan along with the establishment of a foundation for medium and
long-term sector development. The project has led to emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction works of
treatment, chlorination, pumping, transmission and distribution facilities in the water sector and
-37 -



rehabilitation of wastewater facilities all over Lebanon (commonly known 1st year emergency works of the
NERP) and implemented three larger water supply and sewerage systems, namely, Ba'albeck Water and
Wastewater Project, Ba'albeck Wastewater Treatment Plant and the Metn-Barouk Water and Wastewater
Project (known as 2nd & 3rd year works of the NERP), in addition to providing related consultancy
services and important environmental studies (Environmental Monitoring Plan, Industrial effluent,....) and
studies to prepare for a follow-up project.
Component        Activities
Water            -     protection of surface and groundwater from actual and potential sources of
pollution;
-     provision of adequate treatment facilities to ensure water supplies of
satisfactory quality;
-     rehabilitation and extension (where justified) of water distribution systems to
access public water supplies;
Wastewater       -     rehabilitation of sewerage networks to ensure satisfactory sanitary conditions
in built-up areas and
-     rehabilitation or extension of sewage treatment facilities where urgently
required for environmental reasons;
Technical        -     preparation of engineering designs, including tender documents, and
assistance/      construction supervision for works
consultancy
services
The Water and wastewater SIU played a major role in assisting the Ministry of Energy and Water in the
implementation of the water supply and wastewater components of the ERRP. It provided also an
integrated approach to donor contributions to the sector. Procurement under the project was done through
the CDR taking advantage of its more expeditious procurement procedures. The respective involvement of
the CDR and the SIU in the procurement has facilitated the process. Furthermore, innovative actions were
incorporated into the project tender documents in order to ensure immediate improvements in operation and
maintenance. By project completion date, Lebanon has made marked improvements to the management of
its water resources. Significant progress was made in restoring the water infrastructure and wastewater
networks damaged during the 17 years of conflict while meeting the rapidly growing demand for services in
urban areas. The Government of Lebanon (GoL) has also taken some early steps in addressing water
quality problems, and pollution, and has made the water sector a priority area. Government's efforts are
now focused on improving the system performance and institutional reform.
At the institutional level, a new sector law was promulgated strengthening the role of the Ministry of
Energy and Water (MEW) in policy, bulk water supply (both for potable and irrigation use), strategic
planning and regulatory matters. Wastewater was re-incorporated into the MEW and the twenty-one water
authorities were consolidated into four regional water boards. However, key reforms are still required in
order to render the sector more efficient and self-sustaining.
4.2    Solid Waste Management
At the start of the ERRP, solid waste management services were severely affected by the years of hostilities
in Lebanon. In all parts of the country, refuse collection equipment was either damaged through acts of war
or deteriorated as the result of aging and the lack of maintenance. This has resulted in the inability of
-38 -



authorities to collect the refuse generated by the urban populations; refuse was allowed to pile up in
unseemly heaps along major roads and dumped along the sea coast, leading to environmental degradation.
Refuse collection and disposal is the responsibility of municipal authorities. However, the resource base of
the municipalities had been eroded by the years of conflict, and so municipalities depended on the central
government for assistance as they were unable to restore a reasonable level of service without help.
The objectives of the Bank's ERRP in the solid waste sector were fully in line with Government priorities
that included the prevention of fluther environmental degradation resulting from the dumping of solid
waste. This was achieved through investments under the ERRP loan for rehabilitating and replacing the
collection equipment (compactor trucks and containers) that was damaged or reached the limit of its useful
life; rehabilitating/remediating and operating suitable disposal sites (Amroussieh Incinerator, Qarantina
compost plant and Tripoli Landfill); and strengthening the institutions that are responsible for waste
collection and disposal, as well as for the maintenance of equipment. ERRP, also, initially financed the
operation of two of the above facilities and private sector participation in garbage collection in the Greater
Beirut and Chouf areas. The project also financed a "Long Term Strategy for the Sector" that was used to
prepare for another sectoral project.
The responsibility for solid waste management in Lebanon lies primarily with the municipalities.. As the
municipalities were weakened by years of conflict,- a Sector Implementation Unit (SIU) was placed within
the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs. The management of project
implementation was carried out by the SIU, in coordination with the various municipal authorities and the
various divisions of the CDR.
The project assisted the Government in developing the institutional structures for improved service in the
sector and a more active role for the private sector. However, although the creation of sanitary landfills was
given top priority, their development was hindered by availability of land. This was mainly due to the
NIMBY (Not-In-My-Backyard) syndrome. At the institutional level, cost-recovery is awaiting the
introduction of direct charges to households benefiting from the service. By project completion date, the
Government had achieved excellent results in turning Beirut into a clean city and the management of solid
waste collection and disposal is provided by the private sector. Private sector participation in the solid
waste sector in Lebanon has been among the pioneering sector experiences in the Middle East and North
Africa Region.
4.3    Electricity
The ERRP was implemented with a background of widespread damage to the power facilities and a
prolonged period of lack of maintenance. Many of the generating facilities were in need of major repairs
and replacement Furthermore, electricity supply was restricted to 6 hours per day. The transmission
facilities were severely damaged and could not be interconnected. The distribution network had suffered
heavily and the entire distribution grids of displaced villages had been destroyed.
The ERRP sector objectives were in line with Government priorities that concentrated on the urgent
rehabilitation works for generation, transmission and distribution facilities. The ERRP financed the
rehabilitation of part of the war-damaged distributing facilities in the Greater Beirut area and the
reconstruction of the distribution networks for destroyed villages to allow the return of the displaced
population. It financed the cost of metering equipment It assisted the Government also in the preparation of
an appropriate regulatory framework for attracting private sector investments in the power sector. At
project completion, the service had improved significantly. Responsibility for project implementation was
assigned to the Ministry of Energy and Water and the "Electricite du Liban" (EdL). The latter was assisted
-39-



by a Sector Implementation Unit (SIU) and an intemational consultant both of which were housed in EdL
and financed by EC and French Government Grants , respectively.
By project completion, Lebanon had largely completed the rehabilitation and expansion of its power
distribution facilities. Procurement under the project was done through the CDR to take advantage of its
expeditious procurement procedures (with the exception of the cancelled National Control Center).
4.4    Vocational and Technical Education
By the start of the ERRP, both the quality of education and the condition of the public education facilities
had greatly suffered as a result of years of conflict. The quality of education is one of the key comparative
advantages of Lebanon and the country's economy depends to a great extent on the presence of
well-educated human resource base that contribute to the national economy. Also, demand in public schools
has increased due to the fall in living standards and as the cost of private education became increasingly
prohibitive. It was therefore, an urgent priority to restore the capacity of the sector and enhance its
capability.
Physical damage to existing public schools and the loss of equipment severely have severely constrained
their potential capacity. Also, 18 out of the 22 public vocational and technical training colleges were
severely damaged.
Govermnent priorities concentrated on (i) the rehabilitation of public schools (primary and secondary
levels) and (ii) the rehabilitation of specific vocational and technical training colleges and (iii) the
rehabilitation of the Lebanese University; (iv) the rehabilitation of teacher training colleges and, (v)
providing technical assistance to upgrade teacher training programs and strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Ministries of National Education and Fine Art, Higher Education, and Technical and
Vocational Education.
The ERRP provided financing for the rehabilitation works for around 21 public technical and vocational
facilities located throughout the country; the repair and replacement of equipment for all the facilities to be
rehabilitated; training seminars for personnel and strengthening the new Ministry of Technical and
Vocational Education; and consultant services for the preparation of engineering studies, tender documents
and the supervision of works. In addition, an accelerated training component that included basic skills
taining was among the key achievements of the ERRP.
The building rehabilitation and associated consulting services was implemented by a Sector implementation
Unit (SIU) that was located in the Directorate of Buildings of the Ministry of Public Works, normally in
charge of the construction of govenmment-owned buildings.
The remaining parts, related to the repair of equipment, preparation of training material, training seminars
and strengthening of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE), were implemented by the
MVTE. The MVTE and the SIU in the Ministry of Public Works coordinated their work to ensure timely
completion of civil works and the delivery of equipment
The project also helped create an accelerated training program in two phases covering a total of 15
Construction and Industrial skills (plastering, brick laying, painting, carpentry, plumbing, tile setting,
aluminum fabrication, electrical installation, air-conditioning ducting, blacksmithing, steel reinforcement
setting, joinery, car body maintenance, motor mechanic and car electrician). Under the first phase, the
program also supplied the participants with tool kits to be used in jobs obtained with their acquired skills.
-40 -



Overall, the program trained over 9,000 participants.
4.5    Emergency Assistance
The ERRP supplementary loan proved timely as it succeeded in responding effectively to the emergency
needs of the population in southern Lebanon. It financed the emergency restoration of damaged water and
power services to the area and the cost of rehabilitation of damaged houses and has led to marked economic
and social benefits in the project areas. This included improvements in public health, through reduction in
domestic water contamination and the restoration of infrastructure services that are essential to the
resumption of economic activities. Furthermore, the rehabilitation of infrastructure in the project areas has
contributed to the return of displaced persons to their towns and villages.
Emergency expenditures under the supplementary ERRP loan were lirnited to sectors originally covered by
the ERRP, namely, power, water, and housing.
The emergency repairs and rehabilitation expenditures related to the April 1996 hostilities were based on
the damage assessment undertaken by Government (High Relief Committee (HRC), Line Ministries and
agencies, Lebanese Army and consultants). Under the housing component, the Lebanese Army's assessment
formed an adequate basis for the allocation of loan funds and provided detailed information on each
damaged house (location, owner/tenant name and ID number in addition to an estimate of damage). The
housing grants covered the rehabilitation and repair of all houses that were eligible for funding under the
ERRP, namely; (i) all totally damaged houses, with total damage of $40,000 or less; (ii) houses with severe
partial damage, of $20,000 or less; and (iii) houses with light partial damage, of $3,000 or less.
For infrastructure repair and rehabilitation, emergency works were directly procured by the sector
ministries using on-going contract unit prices agreed for similar works. Also, the responsibility for
implementation was entrusted to the sector ministries which reported on implementation progress and
completion to the HRC for payment of contractors and the provision of goods and services.
After the liberation of South Lebanon in May 2000, five water supply'facilities were identified for
rehabilitation in the South, at Siddekine-Bint'Jbeil, Siddekine-Beit Lif, Nabaa El Tasseh, Ibl el Saqi, and
Taybeh.
The rehabilitation of the Markabi Hydroelectric Power Plant under the Litani River Authority came as an
expeditious response to damages incurred from Israeli Aggression in 1996. The works restored 34 MW of
power generation capacity and rehabilitated the dispatch center of the Plant, as well as, providing
spareparts and consultancy services.
Acknowledging the emergency works under the supplementary loan, the project has successfully
incorporated the following design features:
-41 -



CRJTERIA      DESIGN FEATURES
Flexibility       reallocation of project funds within a component and between components allowed enough
flexibility to deal with the emergency component, in the face of unstable conditions and shifting
priorities.
Efficiency        the limit for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) was increased considerably and direct
contracting was allowed
housing grants were paid in installments with payment of installments subsequent to initial
advances, for houses with severe partial damage and totally damaged houses conditional upon
evidence of utilization of prior payments.
beneficiaries are allowed to use normal commercial practice for the procurement of the
goods and civil works required for the rehabilitation and repair of the damaged houses.
under the repair and rehabilitation in the infrastructure sectors, works were directly
procured by the sector ministries using on-going contract unit prices agreed for similar works.
Very small works could be done by force accounts using the ministries and the existing work
force at government agencies.
Continuity        the supplemental loan was managed under the same anrangements adopted for the ERRP
* the special account for the supplementary loan was the same as for the ERRP.
* CDR assumed the monitoring and coordination responsibilities.
4.6 Technical Assistance
The technical assistance and institutional capacity building component proved to be an important element
of the project as it provided a sound basis for starting to rebuild the public institutions that were severely
affected by the war and contributed to the sustainability of the investments financed under the ERRP. The
technical assistance component provided support to the central government to achieve (i) capacity building
to strengthen the capabilities of key institutions in economic management; (ii) policy development to design
and implement sectoral policies and; (iii) institutional and regulatory reforms.
Technical Assistance under the latter was aimed at preparing and implementing part of the Government's
restructuring program in some sectors, as well as, improving management Priority areas included (i) the
Ministry of Finance, (ii) telecommunications, (iii)water and wastewater and (iv) electricity
(a)- Ministry of Finance:
1) Fiscal Reform and Administration: This project component partially financed a program to enhance
revenue collection and strengthen economic and financial management at the Ministry of Finance. Activities
included implementing the work program for fiscal reforms, reform coordination and technical and policy
advice to the Ministry.
The program achieved its expected results and proved to be key element in the Ministry's overall
rehabilitation and modernization strategy. The first generation of reforms were aimed at restoring the
previously existing functions of the Ministry and introducing basic management capabilities.
The second generation of reforns introduced automation of existing systems and procedures (e.g. collection
and tabulation of trade data, budget preparation and execution procedures etc.) and incorporated a
thorough reform of the customs tariff structures and the conversion of the tariff nomenclature into the
Harmonized System (HS). More important, full assessment of the tax structure and of the public
-42 -



expenditure management systems was undertaken along with the introductions of several tax reforms.
The third generation of reforms entailed a re-engineering of existing systems and procedures.
The program also provided the Ministry of Finance with essential assistance to decision making, and helped
deal with the requirements of both the Lebanese decision makers and legislators and those of countries and
intemational agencies.
2) Value Added Tax: The technical assistance component under the ERRP also played a important role in
supporting the GoL's economic reforms plan that included the introduction of the VAT in Lebanon, which
was completed in January 2002, and is an important step considering the need for eliminating customs
duties on imports as a result of the signing of the association agreement with the EU and the signing of and
the membership of Lebanon in the Arab free trade area.
The technical assistance provided was vital as the MoF lacked the required human resources and expertise
to develop and implement the VAT in Lebanon. A dedicated team was set-up at the MoF and included local
and foreign consultants as well as employees from the Ministry. Among the key objective achieved was the
transfer of know-how to MoF employees who will assume the key role in future VAT administration.
Activities under the technical assistance provided included local and foreign consultants for the drafting and
approval of the VAT law, the preparation of tax policies and regulations, the setting-up of internal systems
and procedures including organizational structure and job description, office automation and training of
govemment employees and finally the launching of a public communication and education campaign and
intemal training within Ministry of Finance (MoF).
(b)- Ministry of telecommunications: The GoL has acknowledged since the start of the ERRP that the
development of the telecommunications sector is key to strengthening government revenues and promoting
socio-economic development ion the country. The sector revenues are significant and can contribute to
reduce the budget deficit. Building on the government's commitmnent, the technical assistance provided
under the ERRP has helped to initiate a sector development program at the Ministry. This was in line with
govemment objectives that included the creation of a regulatory authority, the setting-up of an efficient
operator for fixed services and the improvement of the profitability of the sector as a whole. Technical
assistance under the ERRP has helped the government implement the restructuring of the
telecommunications sector through the following key activities:
*      Carrying out control inventories of fixed assets and implementing the management of physical and
accounting flows on a permanent basis,
*      The definition of a regulatory policy to develop the Telecommunications Sector and to prepare the
sector law (which has been ratified by Parliament in July 2002 after review by both the Cabinet
and Parliament),
*      Examining the market structure and the various options for the introduction of the private sector in
telecommunications,
*      Recommending an organizational plan for human resources and identifying the different types of
constraints for the transfer of personnel,
*      Examining the tarification policy and proposing new policies,
*      Identifying the main economic and social policies labor laws and tax policies that have an impact
on the sector restructuring.
ERRP has also helped the Ministry in securing consultaiicy services to introduce the private sector in
-43 -



improving sector management and improve operation and maintenance.
(c)- Ministry of Energy and Water: Technical assistance to the water sector was aimed at supporting the
government efforts towards the implementation of the strategy framework for water and wastewater sector
reforms. It played a key role in the enactment of the law for the restructuring of the water sector in
Lebanon. This was achieved in part through the appointment of an experienced and competent Institutional
Specialist who mobilized support from Parliamentary members by presenting the benefits of such
restructuring and ensured that the law is in line with the privatization law in Lebanon. The Institutional
Specialist has assisted the Ministry to manage the overall process of sector reforms and decision-making
related to policy issues. He has also coordinated with financing agen9ies and kept concerned Government
authorities informed.
Key sector reforms were implemented and have benefited from the technical assistance provided under the
ERRP. This included:
*      The promulgation of a new sector law.
*      Consideration of cost recovery policies and tariffs structures to ensure sustainability, in the context
of the Ba'albeck Water and Wastewater Project, a direct follow-up to the ERRP.
*      Achieving better efficiency and provision of better services through private sector participation in
Ba'albeck in order to carry out operation and maintenance and to assume all service functions.
(d) ELECTRICITE du LIBAN (EdL):
In the electricity sector, after the completion of the Restructuring Study of the electricity sector, a draft
Electricity Law was drafted and submitted to the Council of Ministers in 2001 and later on to Parliament.
The Electricity Law was ratified in August 2002.
5.     Implementation Record and Performance
The implementation of the ERRP comes after 17 years of conflict. Much of the country's capital stock was
destroyed or severely deteriorated and a quarter of the population was displaced. Public and social services
were either unavailable or of poor quality and only about one third of electricity capacity was operational;
water treatment and sewage disposal were virtually nonexistent; and most schools and hospitals were
damaged.   Damage Assessment Reports to the infrastructure stock were finalized in 1993 and the
Government relied mainly on the recommendations of these reports to seek financing for its National
Emenrgency Rehabilitation Program. Nevertheless, during implementation, the real magnitude of damages
became clearer and the scope of works increased in many instances, which naturally affected the cost and
implementation duration of the works.
By Project closure, the objectives of ERRP were entirely accomplished. The.implementation of the ERRP
has resulted in marked economic, social and environment benefits to the country namely in the following
sectors:
- 44 -



Sector         Achieved benefits
Economic       (i) the restoration of infrastructure services that are critical to the resumption of
production
(ii) physical reconstruction undertaken by the private sector
(iii) rebuilding of investors' confidence, which was essential for generating revenues
from user charges
(iv) rapid emergency repairs of key infrastructure services damaged by the Israeli
hostilities
Social         (i) the mitigation of some of the effects of social dislocation, through the rehabilitation
of damaged and destroyed housing units and educational facilities; and
(ii) a reduction in social hardship, through the generation of work opportunities in the
construction industry.
Environmental  (i) reduction of water pollution in water distribution systems;
(ii) improved solid waste collection and disposal practices
(iii) reduction in air pollution due to the reduction in the use of individual
diesel-powered generators and reduction in open solid waste burning
Obviously, the Government had taken all the required actions to ensure effective program and project
implementation and the overall responsibilities of CDR and sector ministries were well defined. Project
implementation has highly benefited from the institutional strengthening that was provided under the
ERRP. The CDR programning functions were strengthened through the involvement of foreign and local
consultants in program management and capacity building activities. Similarly, participating sector
ministries have benefited to an extent from the presence of the Sector Implementation Units (SIUs) that
were created within each sector ministry concemed to reinforce the ministry's capacity for implementation.
However, the insufficient human resource base at sector ministries has been a limiting factor on the
technical assistance and capacity building activities carried-out by the SIUYs.
The GoL was committed to institutional reform in the infrastructure sectors. Policy statements for
improving cost recovery and the efficiency of the management of key infrastructure sectors were drafted.
However, the ERRP was not designed to be an instrument for policy reform but to ensure that actions
necessary for its successful implementation will be compatible with future sector and macroeconomic
reform programs in Lebanon. The GoL has allocated also the necessary budget resources for the recurrent
costs that could be covered through internal cash generation and has initiated private sector participation in
operation and maintenance services in a number of sectors.
The financing by the European Community (EC), and on a grant basis, of most of the costs of the PMU
and SIU s contracts was very important, as it has freed much-needed resources for the implementation of
essential physical infrastructure while at the same time providing the EC with insights into key sector
issues. These have since been addressed through a technical assistance program under EC MEDA program
for Lebanon. However, once EC grant financing has been totally disbursed, ERRP has secured funding to
the PMU and SIUYs, which helped to maintain continuity in the technical assistance provided to key
investment sectors in the GoL.
6.     Project Sustainability
At the institutional level, and in line with the Govenmment strategy to achieve sustainable improvement in
-45 -



public sector institutions over the long term while increasing in the short-term the implementation capacity
of public administration, CDR and sector ministries and agencies were strengthened through the
establishment of a Program Management Unit (PMU) within the CDR and Sectoral Implementation Units
(SIR's) within the relevant ministries and agencies, as well as, other initiatives by GoL and/or that were
financed from foreign, including the Bank. These have helped implement the ERRP effectively and
efficiently and provided on-the-job training to the local staff affiliated with these units.
In the water and wastewater sector, a water law was enacted restructuring the sector into four (4) regional
water supply and sanitation authorities. The respective Board members have been nominated and have
assumed the responsibility of setting-up the new institutions. The necessary applicational decree for
undertaking the merger of these authorities into regional institutions has been issued in July, 2002.
A follow-up lending operation that provides complementary investments to the ERRP has been completed.
The new Bank loan will secure the full utilization of water supply and wastewater facilities in the
Ba'albeck-Hermel area. The project involves the delivery of water supply and wastewater collection and
disposal services through the introduction of Service Contracts for operations and maintenance. Tariff
revisions, capacity building at the Beka'a Regional Water Authority and contract preparation for the
introduction of Contract Management operators are also part of the project design. Better service provision
under this project to water subscribers will inevitably improve the willingness to pay and the cost recovery
of services.
In the solid waste sector, the operation of Tripoli landfill is being carried-out satisfactorily by a private
sector operator and equipment procured under the project is being properly used. The municipality of
Tripoli has outsourced also the operation of the collection system and has established an adequate
monitoring system.
In the Power Sector, the GoL aims to develop the enabling environment aimed at improving economic
performance by increasing competition and installing efficiency-enhancing regulatory regimes. The
Government plans to launch a cross-sectoral privatisation program and has endorsed privatisation in the
energy sector as a key priority. It has also started to develop a comprehensive strategy for power sector
reforms, in line with international best practices.
7.     Bank Performance
Close cooperation between the GoL and the Bank Representatives was maintained throughout project
preparation. All the counterpart agencies were involved in the preparation of the loan. Also, a
project-launch mission was fielded immediately after Board approval to ensure that arrangements for
project implementation, including those for procurement and disbursements, were in place and were
satisfactory to the Bank. The mission proved very useful and timely because the Lebanese Government and
its implementing agencies had not dealt with the Bank for nearly a decade, and, therefore, Bank procedures
had to be explained and understood to avoid delays in disbursements. Furthermore, the World Bank during
each visit imparted valuable guidance and support by suggesting corrective measures in project
implementation. They adjusted project content in accordance with the practical situation, in order to
guarantee smooth implementation of the project. Their work was efficient and of high quality during the
whole project implementation. Cooperation between both parties was friendly and sincere and opinions on
project issues were exchanged fanildy. The GoL would like to express its appreciation for the valuable
support, guidance and professional advice from successive Bank missions during the course of the project.
The GoL looks forward to such continued co-operation in the future.
-46-



8.     Borrower Performance and LESSONS LEARNED
The overall performance of the GoL is assessed as satisfactory and the synergy between the emergency
reconstruction strategy of both the GoL and the Bank was key to the success of this project. The ERRP has
successfully aligned itself with the GoL reconstruction and recovery strategy. This was implemented in a
phased program comprising: (a) short-term emergency reconstruction and rehabilitation; (b) medium-term
recovery; and (c) long term development
Assigning procurement functions under this project to the CDR proved to be appropriate in a context of
emergency intervention. This was mainly due to (i) the cumbersome and time-consuming procurement
procedures under standard govemment regulations;- (ii) the streamlined procedures applicable to
procurement by the CDR; and (iii) the economies of scale that can be achieved through bulk procurement.
Expeditious procurement procedures were implemented and the respective involvement of the PMU and the
SIU in the procurement has facilitated the process.
Flexibility in project design proved to be very useful when GoL priorities and donor interests changed.
Allowing reallocation of funds within each sector and between sectors was highly valued by the GoL.
Similarly, allowing retroactive financing for consultants services and advance payments for urgent
equipment and civil works contracts was also important in an emergency context. Also, to expedite the
rehabilitation works, contract award was restricted to a limited number of contractors that were
pre-qualified according to World Bank procedures. Operation and maintenance services were contracted to
private sector firms wherever a ministry or public agency was institutionally incapable of adequately
performing these tasks.
The criteria used for the allocation of ERRP funds to the various sectors proved to be appropriate in the
context of emergency reconstruction. These included the impact of sector projects on economic and social
conditions, their readiness for implementation, existing and expected co-financing commitments and
institutional arrangements for implementation and cost recovery. The latter proved difficult to implement
due to severe institutional limitations and difficult economic conditions.
-47-












LEBANON
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT (ERRP)
_    1 INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
-    _ j PRIMARY HIGHWAYS                                            A Mp 
4,,,  RAILROADS             At                                               2          Orr" I
P ;, AlR>ORTS                 ChekkaD       :/Y   ut J   TRIPOLI
AJR PORTS                                         IEA       O         2
IPIPELINES                   Cek
A 2361 ELEVATION POINTS IN METERS                        R ARTA1 N  30                                 1642'?
WATERCOURSES                         EL KOU
*  NATIoNAL CAPITAL                                         cSr~
o    SELECTED CITIES       B atroun                             8rr
GREATER] BEIRUT                                      BCAR
I~~~~~~~~i ~~~~~~EL BATRU
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
CAZA BOUNDARIES
MOHAFAZAT BOUNDARIES
Jbe i                                     2    trBA4LBECK          2 20 A
-  Tabarja         =(                                  Baalb  k
- 3 4 -                                       Joun                                     . Si                                    3 3 43 0
BEIRUT   -         LM/
+ 4^# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zahl                                       2361 .
.3  BOA1           vz4g5Rayak
9   DarrI                                                                0J  5   0   15
z~                      94fj                                                            MILE  0             0      1
Said     /HAIj
Zahran ;tl S
. tA15~~~~~~~~23                            HASBAYA !i; 
_-~~ n   j                                                      MILES O     5      10     150  T









IMAGING
Report No.:         24728
Type:             - R



