Page  1
                                                     Conformed Copy
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3562-1 LE
                                                        (Amendment)
                        Agreement Amending CDR
                           Project Agreement
          (Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project)
                               between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 and
                COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
                       Dated as of July 15, 1996
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3562-1 LE
                                                         (Amendment)
                AGREEMENT AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated as of July 15, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COUNCIL FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (CDR).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank and CDR entered into a Project Agreement
(Emergency Reconstruction Project), dated March 8, 1993 (the CDR
Project Agreement), as amended, for the purpose of assisting in the
implementation of the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement (Ln. 3562 LE) between the Lebanese Republic
(the Borrower) and the Bank;
      (B)   by a subsidiary agreement (the CDR Subsidiary Agreement),
dated August 18, 1993, as amended, entered into between the Borrower
and CDR, the Borrower made available as a grant to CDR a portion of
the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement on the
terms and conditions set forth in said CDR Subsidiary Agreement; and
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the
amount made available under the Loan Agreement by an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) and has
agreed to make available to CDR as a grant a portion of the said
additional amount by amending the CDR Subsidiary Agreement;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to provide such additional assistance
Page  2
to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement
Amending Loan Agreement of even date herewith;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
               Amendments of the CDR Project Agreement
      Section 1.01. Paragraph A of the Preamble to the CDR Project
Agreement is amended to read:
            "(A)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
            the Lebanese Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
            has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
            various currencies equivalent to two hundred twenty five
            million dollars ($225,000,000), on the terms and conditions
            set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
            CDR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
            are set forth in this CDR Project Agreement;"
      Section 1.02. Paragraph B of the Preamble to the CDR Project
Agreement is amended to read:
            "(B)  by a subsidiary agreement (the CDR Subsidiary
            Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
            CDR, the Borrower will make available as a grant to CDR
            a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
            the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth
            in said CDR Subsidiary Agreement; and."
      Section 1.03. The Schedule to the CDR Project Agreement is
amended as set forth in the Schedule to this Amending CDR Project
Agreement.
                             Article II
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Amending CDR Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the date upon which the Agreement Amending Loan
Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 2.02. If this Amending CDR Project Agreement shall not
have come into force and effect under the provisions of Section 2.01
of this Amending CDR Project Agreement, this Amending CDR Project
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate
and the CDR Project Agreement shall continue in full force and effect,
as if this Amending CDR Project Agreement had not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending CDR Project
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                            Regional Vice President
                                       Middle East and North Africa
                  COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT
                     AND RECONSTRUCTION
Page  3
                  By /s/ Nabil A. El Jisr
                                          Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
      (b)   Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated
to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$2,200,000 equivalent and those which the Bank agrees can only be
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2
of the Guidelines.
2.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $32,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equi-
valent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    Direct Contracting
      Goods which are proprietary or must be compatible with installed
equipment and costing $6,300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
Page  4
and works for the repair of water and waste water and power facilities
under Part A and B of the Project costing $3,500,000 or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior approval, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
