Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-6221-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRISlDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 57.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
APRIL 18, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6221 UG
Type: PR
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomanmce of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban;k authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Ugandan Shillin (U Sh)
US$1         U Sh 1047.22 (February 1994)
U Sh 1         US$0.000954
US$1    =    SDR 0.7213
SDR1    =    US$1.3865
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July I    -    June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC       -      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CAS       -       Country Assistance Strategy
CEM       -       Country Economic Memoradum
CMB       -       Coffee Marketing Board
CMBL      -       Coffee Marketing Board Limited
DAPCB    -        Departed Asians Property Custodian Board
DFI        -      Direct Foreign Investment
EDMO       -      External Debt Management Office
EEC        -      European Economic Community
ERC I      -      First Economic Recovery Credit
ERC 1I    -       Second Economic Recovery Credit
ESW       -       Economic and Sector Work
FSAC       -      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP        -      Gross Domestic Product
ICB        -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA        -      International Development Association
IMP        -      International Monetary Fund
LMB        -      Lint Marketing Board
MPEP       -      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPS        -      Ministry of Public Service
NEAP       -      National Environmental Action Plan
NRM        -      National Resistance Movement
ODA (UK) -        Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
SAC I      -      First Structural Adjustment Credit
TIN        -      Taxpayer Identification Number
UCDA       -      Uganda Coffee Development Authority
UIA        -      Uganda Investment Authority
URA        -      Uganda Revenue Authority
URC        -      Uganda Railways Cororation
USAID      -      United States Agency for Iternational Development
VAT        -      Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUMMENT CREDfT
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT SUMMARY ...............; i
PART I:  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP
ASSISllANCE SIRATEGY ........             ....................   1
A. Historical Perspective on Economic and Political Developments ....1.. 
B. Recent Economic and Social Performance  .................... 3
C. Uganda's Development Objectives and Policies .... ............  8
D. Bank Group Assistance Strategy .......      ..................  11
PART II.  THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMIENT CREDIT  ....                   .....  19
A. The Regulatory and Business Climate ..........     ............  19
B. Divestiture of the Custodian Board Properties ....... .......... 23
C. Domestic Revenue Mobilzation  ........... ..............  25
D. Public Expenditure Prioritization ............  27
E. Civil Service Reform  ............... .................  29
PARTII. THE PROPOSED CREDT.                                                      32
A. Credit Amount and Expected Cofinancing .32
B. Tranching .32
C. Disbursement .32
D. Procurement .32
E. Management, Monitoring and Accounts .33
F. Conditionality .33
PART IV. BE3ESANDRISKS .35
A. Benefits .35
B. Poverty Category of the Proposed Operation .35
C. Risks .35
PART V. RECOMMENDATION .36
lbis document has a restricted distribution and mlay be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



ANNEXES
1.   Leter of Development Policy
II.  Policy Matrix
11. I Balance of Payments
111.2 External Financing Requirements
IV. CAS Tables
Table 1: Selected Indicators of Portfolio Performance and Management
Table 2: Bank Group Fact Sheet
Table 3: Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Table 4: Key Economic Indicators
Table 5: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Uganda
Table 7: Statement of IFC Investments
V.  Statemnent of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
VI. Uganda: Disbursement Issues



UGANDA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIr
CREDlT StMMY
Borrower:           Republic of Uganda
Executing Agency:   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Credit Amount:    IDA: SDR 57.8 million (US$80 million)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Description:        The proposed credit has as its theme poverty reduction through accelerated
economic growth and rapid human resource development. Accordingly, it will
assist the Government to achieve a mumber of key objectives. First, it will
support firiher deregulation of the economy involving the removal of the
remaining barriers to trade and investment in the coffee subsector and
liberalization of the cotton industry. Second, the credit will support actions
aimed at completing the divestiture of the Custodian Board properties. Third,
it will assist the Government to step up domestic revenue generation which is still
only around 8 percent of GDP. Fourth, the credit will help to deepen the
Government's efforts aimed at prioritizing both recurrent expenditure and
development expenditure. Fifth, it will support further measures directed at
downsizing the civil service and raising its efficiency.
Benefits:           The specific actions to be supported by the credit will benefit Uganda in a
number of ways. Improvements in the regulatory and business climate will help
unleash the full potential of the private sector as the engine of growth. The final
phase of divestiture of the Custodian Board properties is expected to spark
increased rehabilitation investment and reinforce Uganda's pro-business image.
Civil service reform is aimed at building a competent, results-oriented service
without which the present ineffectiveness of government programs will persist.
Sharp increases in domestic revenue are needed to underwrite not only civil
service reform (salaries in particular) but also much higher levels of expenditure
in the social and economic sectors, especially health, education and roads.
Public expenditure rationalization will lead to more productive use of the
Government's own limited resources and the resources provided by donors.
Risks:              There are both extemal and intenal risks to the program to be supported by the
credit. Coffee prices on the world market have firmed over the past few months
but the risk of a further slide in prices cannot be ruled out. The best way
Uganda can protect itself against such an eventuality is to promote noncoffee
exports vigorously. Uganda has no control over international developments but
it has demonstrated a readiness to respond to external shocks. On the domestic
front, the main risks are a return to fiscal laxity in the run-up to presidential and
parliamentary elections in 1994 and a weakening of resolve in implementing
structural reforms, especially those involving retrenchment and revenue



-ii-
generaton. On the posilve side, the   i a much greater commitment to fiscal
prudence than beo, and the centra bank has become more vigilant in
managing the Government's accounts. Moreover, the merger of finance and
planning has resulted in a more cohesive budget management structure. To
reduce the risk of lost momentum on stuctura reform SAC II supports many up-
front acdons.
Povety Category    The proposed credit has a strong poverty focus.
Economil Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.
Estmated
Disbursements:     The credt will be disbursed in two tranches of approximaely equal amowts,
with the first tranche released upon credit effectiveness and th second tranche
be)ming available about nine months later once the relevant conditions have
been filfilled.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TIHE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPhMT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECTIE DIECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND SRUCTURAL ADJUSTMNENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC U) in the amount of SDR 57.8 million (US$80 million) to the Republic
of Uganda on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years.
2.     DA has supported Uganda's stabilization and adjustment program, launched in May
1987, with two Economic Recovery Credits (ERC I and ERC 11), an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC), a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) and a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC) as well as several investment operations which have attracted
substantial amounts of cofinancing or parallel financing from other donors. The program has also
benefitted from significant resource flows from the IMP. The proposed credit will support the
deepening of some of the important policy reforms and institutional measures that have been
implemented over the past six years.
3.    Part I of this report presents Uganda's macroeconomic and structural policies and the
Bank Group's assistance strategy. The reforms to be supported by the proposed credit are
discussed in Part H. Part m descnbes the specific features of the credit. The benefits and risks
of the program to be supported by the credit are discussed in Part IV. Part V Is the President's
recommendation.
Part I: Country Policies and Bank Group Assnce Strategy
1.1   This part of the report serves three purposes. First, it provides a brief !, ;torical
background on the economy and politics. Secondly, it discusses receitt economic developments,
focusing on progress towards stabilization and adjustment and the key development issues facing
the country. Thirdly, it reviews the Bank's assistance strategy in Uganda.
A. Historical Perspective on Economdc and Political Developments
Historical Perspective
1.2    With a per capita income of only around US$180 in FY93, Uganda ranks among the
poorest countries in the world. Poverty in Uganda is largely the consequence of civil war,
political instability and economic mismanagement. The country has good growth potential,
however. It is blessed with fertle soils and a good climate. Agriculture is the mainstay of the
economy: it accounts for more than 50 percent of GDP, about 75 percent of export earnings and
around 80 percent of employment; and it provides inputs for a number of manurig and



processing industries. Smallholders are the backbone of Ugandan agriculture; over 80 percent
of the farmers cultivate less than 2 hectares. The country is predominanly rural, with only 11
percent of the population living in towns and cities. Industry has grown rapidly in the past six
years but its contribution to GDP is only around 12 percent. Manufacturing accounts for about
half of industrial output.
1.3   The years immediately following independence in October 1962 were marked by
reasonably strong economic performance. The annual average rate of real GDP growth was 6
percent between 1963 and 1973. The balance of payments was in surplus during much of this
period and inflation was low and stable. The advent of the repressive Amin regime in January
1971 changed things drastically. Amin expelled large numbers of Ugandan Asians and
eypropriated their properties. His regime mounted a systematic attack on key institutions such
as the judiciary, the civil service, the churches, the press and the banks. Accountability and
financial discipline broke down. Economic activity was driven largely underground and the
country became internationally isolated. This turn of events resulted in a 20 percent decline in
GDP during the 1970s. After the overthrow of Amin in 1979, attempts were made to implement
an economic recovery program, with the support of the Bank, th6 Fund and other donors. After
some initial successes, these efforts were overtaken by a renewed civil war which lasted from
1981 to 1985.
1.4   The National Resistance Movement (NRM) waich assumed power in January 1986
inherited an economy which was in ruins. The war had disrupted crop production and marketing.
Manufacturing activity had virtually ground to a halt. Foreign exchange reserves were depleted.
lTe roads were in an acute state of disrepair and there was a severe shortage of trucks and other
transport equipment. Telecommunications, water and power supplies were at best erratic.
Moreover, large parts of the north and east of the country continued to be plagued by insecurity.
In responding to these challenges the Government initially adopted an interventionist stance and
introduced expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. Notwithstanding tentative signs of
economic recovery, the results of these policies proved disastrous, as evidenced by the sharp
acceleration of inflation from 130 percent in January 1986 to 361 percent in May 1987. Over
the same period the parallel market exchange rate of the Ugandan shilling depreciated rapidly,
from U Sh 30 to U Sh 144 per US dollar compared to an official rate of U Sh 60 per US dollar.
In May 1987 the Government adopted new economic policies with the basic objective of creating
a free market economy.
Govemnance
1.5   Uganda has a government of national unity. There is a parliament whose members were
elected on an individual basis rather than on the basis of party affiliation. There is an
independent judiciary, respect for individual liberties and freedom of the press. At the height of
the insurgency in the north and east there were incidents of abuse of human rights but, with the
ending of rebel activities, these have virtually ceased. A draft new national Constitution is due
to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly which was elected in March 1994. Presidential and
parliamentary elections are planned for late 1994. The great unresolved question is whether there
should be a return to multiparty democracy in 1994 or at a later date.



- 3 -
B. Recent Economic and Social 1erformance
1.6   The Government of Uganda embarked upon an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in
May 1987. The basic objective of the program was to bring about rapid and sustained
Improvements in the standard of living of the average Ugandan. This objective was to be
achieved through policy and structural reforms aimed at: (i) restoring internal and external
financial stability and lowering inflation through prudent flscal and monetary management; (ii}
creating the conditions for rapid and sustained growth of GDP through deregulation of the
incentive and regulatory framework; and (iii) developing human capital through investments in
education, health and other social services.
1.7   Summary Assessment of Progress on Stabilization and Structural Adjustment. The
Government has scored a number of successes in reforming the economy. First, it has achieved
price stability. Year-on-year inflation, as measured by the consumer price index for Kampala,
dropped to minus 0.5 percent in June 1993 compared to 63 percent a year earlier, before edging
up to 12.5 percent in March 1994. The attainment of price stability took too long, as the
Government was slow to bring public expenditure and monetary growth under control. Price
stability has been accompanied by exchange rate stability, although between November 1993 and
February 1994 the Ugandan shilling appreciated against the US dollar. Secondly, the
Government has deregulated the incentive and regulatory framework to the point where Uganda
can boast of a free market economy. Thirdly, it has begun to reform public sector institutions:
the size of the civil service and the military has been reduced; there is better control over the civil
service payroll; and a few public enterprises have been sold and many more put on the market.
The sui,ply response to the reforms has been encouraging: the downward slide in the production
of coffee, the main export, has been halted; nontraditional exports havs been growing rapidly but
from a very low base; between FY88 and FY93 real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 5.7
percent, or 2.8 percent in per capita terms.
1.8   In spite of these achievements Uganda faces formidable hurdles that must be overcome
before there can be any assurance of rapid and sustained economic growth and poverty reduction.
First, a civil service competent enough to guide social and economic development is absent.
Secondly, agriculture remains technologically backward. Thirdly, the human capital base is very
deficient. Fourthly, a strong financial system capable of mobilizing and allocating savings is
lacking. Fiftlily, external payments viability remains a distant prospect. The challenge for the
Government, the Bank and other donors is to systematically remedy these deficiencies.
1.9   Key Policy and Institutional Reforms. Uganda launched its Economic Recovery
Program at a time of high and volatile inflation. The immediate goal of economic policy,
therefore, was to achieve macroeconomic stabiliy. To this end the Government sought to tighten
fiscal and monetary policies. Up until the final quarter of FY92 these attempts were largely
unsuccessful as the Government repeatedly exceeded its expenditure targets and resorted to larger-
than-programmed borrowings from the central bank. The overall deficit (excluding grants) as
a percentage of GDP rose from 5.6 percent in FY88 to 14.5 percent in FY92. The rise in the
deficit was caused not only by inappropriate fiscal policies but also by the collapse of
international coffee prices which virtually eliminated income from the coffee export tax, hitherto
the mainstay of government revenue. In FY93 the overall deficit/GDP ratio declined markedly



to 11.2 percent. This was achieved largely by tightening expenditure control and adhering to
strict limits on bank financing. The tighter fiscal stance, together with increased supplies of food
following good rainfall, brought about a sharp deceleration in inflation, as noted in paragraph 1.7
above.
1.10  Uganda was fortunate in that at the time it embarked upon its stabilization and adjustment
program it did not suffer from pervasive price controls and did not therefore have to undergo
what is often a politically difficult and socially disruptive process of pris &Meglation. Still, in
the product markets a number of important prices were subject to direct or indirect control.
Among these were the prices of major locally-manufactured products, producer prices of the
major export crops (coffee, cotton, tea and tobacco) and the prices of certain imported
commodities of which petroleum was the most important. The Government first removed the
price controls on industrial products. Ibis was followed by the removal of controls on crop
producer prices in FY92. Finally, the price controls on petroleum products were removed in
January 1994.
1.11  Price deregulation was accompanied by the removal of entry barriers to markets. First,
the monopoly of the Produce Marketing Board over exports of foodstuffs was terminated. This
action opened the way for private traders to compete for supplies of nontraditional exports such
as beans, maize and simsim. This was followed by the abolition of the export monopoly of the
Coffee Marketing Board (CMB) in 1990. With the abolition of the CMB's export monopoly,
private traders lost no time in entering the coffee export business and now handle about 60
percent of Uganda's coffee exports. As a result of this and other measures taken to deregulate
the subsector, coffee production has recovered somewhat, from 122,154 metric tons in FY91 to
130,000 metric tons in FY93, despite very low world prices for coffee. The Cotton Development
Statute, which came into force in February 1994, did away with the two remaining monopolies
namely, the cooperative unions' monopoly over cotton ginning and the Lint Marketing Board's
monopoly over cotton exports.
1.12 Uganda has also carried out a far-reaching deregulation of the foreign exchange market.
This proceeded in stages. The first stage lasted until the end of FY90. Its main characteristic
was reliance on periodic devaluation of the currency to maintain (unsuccessfully) a competitive
exchange rate. In this period foreign exchange allocation involved a combination of a limited
Open General License (OGL) system and administrative allocations. To improve the
administrative allocations the Government introduced in December 1988 a Special Import
Program (SIP) which provided access to import support funds that were surplus to the
requirements of the OGL, on a first-ome first-served basis. The second stage of liberalizing the
foreign exchange market dates to July 1990 when the Government permitted the setting up of
foreign exchange bureaus, a move which effectively legalized the parallel exchange market. The
third stage began in January 1992 when the Government replaced the OGL and SIP with a weeldy
foreign exchange auction involving the sale of donor import support funds to the commercial
banks. At the start foreign exchange channelled through the auction sold at a discount of over
20 percent to the bureau rate. Over time the gap narrowed. However, owing to the
segmentation of the two markets and differences in documentation requirements, full convergence
of the rates on the two markets proved difficult to achieve. The other problem was that some
foreign exchange transactions were still subject to administrative procedures. In particular, coffee
exporters still had to surrender export proceeds to the central bank (albeit at the market rate with
effect from April 1992) and foreign exchange for petroleum imports was administratively
allocated by the central bank. In the latest stage of liberalization the Government abolished,



v  -
effective November 1, 1993, the auction and introduced a unified foreign exchange system in
which the market-makers are the commercial banks and the bureaus. In the new setting the
central bank would intervene from time to time to achieve certain monetary or balance of
payments objectives. With the introduction of this foreign exchnge system Uganda now has a
unified, market-determined exchange rate. The foreign currency market is free of controls on
virtually all current account transactions. As a result of these actions, public confidence in the
shilling has been restored and funds held abroad have been flowing back into the conntry.
During FY94 the market bas been so well supplied with foreign exchange in the form of export
earnings, private capital and transfers and donor import support that the Ugandan shilling
appreciited strongly against all the major foreign currencies. From December 1993 the central
bank resorted to market intervention to stem the appreciation of the currency.
1.13 In the financial sector reform has focused on interest rate policy and prudential
uervision of banks. With regard to interest rates substantial progress has been made towards
deregulation. Interest rates are now market-determined except for the rates on agricultural loans,
term loans and one-year deposits which are linked to a moving average yield on treasury bills;
treasury bills are auctioned weekly. Interest rates have come down over the past year but not by
as much as inflation. The interest rate paid on savings deposits dropped from 21 percent in
December 1992 to 11 percent in December 1993 while loan rates generally declined from 33
percent to 23 percent. The banks have maintained a constant spread of 12 percentage points
between lending and deposit rates. The banks have clearly been slow to reduce interest rates,
with the result that. for a time, borrowers faced real interest rates of 10 percent or higher. Four
reasons may be adduced for the banks' reluctance to lower interest rates. First, their loan
portfolios and balance sheets are very weak. Secondly, their operating costs are high. Thirdly,
there is litde or no competition among them. Finally, they still harbor fears of high and volatle
inflation. With respect to prudential supervision, the newly-enacted Bank of Uganda Act and the
FinancW Institutions Act have, among other things, increased capital requirements and granted
the central bank greater supervisory powers over the financW system; however, implementation
has as yet been inadequate.
1.14  Intitutional dvelMent has also been an important component of the adjustment
program. The notable actions taken in firtherance of this goal include: the merger of the finance
and planning ministries in April 1992 which has resulted in a more coherent fiscal and economic
management structure; the reorganization of the Bank of Uganda which has set the stage for
improving the central bank's operations and accounting; the strengthening of the Office of the
Auditor General in an effort to improve accountability for the use of public fuids; tie
establishment of the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) with the primary objective of revampiug
tax administration; the creation of the Uganda Investment Authority (UIA) as the focal point for
assisting investors in obtaining the necessary approvals; the downsizing of the civil service to
169,000 in 1994 from 320,00 in 1990; and the implementation of a veterans assistance program
which made it possible to cut the size of the military by 23,000 in just one year.
1.15 The Environment. Uganda had earned the distinction of being referred to as 'the Pearl
of Africa' because of the richness of its natural endowment of forests, mountains, waterways,
wildlife, fertle soils and agreeable climate. Until the early 1970s the country had a well-
managed system of natural areas which served as the basis for an expanding tourist Industry.
This progress was interrupted and indeed reversed during fifteen years of political and military



-6-
turmoil which took a heavy toll on the people, the natural resources wad the economy. The
period of turmoil was marked by extensive encroachment on forest and wildlife habitats.
Moreover, ecological damage to Lake Victoria has been on the rise. The Government has taken
a number of actions which have set the stage for addressing the environimr-ntal problems facing
the country, including the assignment of respon.ibility for environmental matters to a particular
ministry. It is about to complete a National Env.ronmental Action Plan. A number of projects
are already supporting improvements in the management of forests and other natural resources.
1.16   An Evaluation of Overall Economic Performance. The reforms have had a positive
outcome on a number of counts. First, macroeconomic stability has been achieved; it needs to
be sustained, however. Secondly, the supply response has been strong. GDP at factor cost grew
by an average of 6.6 percent per annum during FY88-FY90, reflecting the impact of the reforms
and the spurt in activity following the restoration of peace and security to most parts of the
country. The next two years (FY91-FY92) saw the annual average GDP growth rate decline to
about 3.5 percent, owing largely to the effects of poor rainfall on crop production. Provisional
data, however, show that, in spite of the sharp disinflation, the economy cebounded strongly in
FY93; GDP grew by 7.2 percent as agricultural production recovered from the near-drought
conditions of the previous year. Thirdly, the reforms have stimulated the production of
nontraditional exports but, in the aggregate, these are still very small.  Overall export
performance has, however, remained poor mainly because of the collapse of coffee prices
following the July 1989 suspension of the quota arrangements under the International Coffee
Agreement. The external current account deficit (excluding grants) remains large (11.0 percent
of GDP in FY93) but has started to decline. Also gross investment is very low (15.3 percent of
GDP in FY93 compared to an average of 27 percent for low-income countries).
1.17  There are no longer any major distortions in the incentive structure. Product prices, the
exchange rate and interest rates are all determined by market forces. The labor market is
practically free of regulations. Moreover, state monopolies have been abolished. The
inefficiencies of public sector bureaucracies and of the financial system, however, continue to
Impose unnecessary costs on the economy.
1.18 Sustainability of Recent Progress. It is too early to suggest that the macroeconomic
stability that Uganda has achieved is sustainable. For one thing, there is as yet only a very
narrow constituency in favor of tight fiscal and monetary policies. Moreover, a much stronger
domestic revenue effort and more rapid and diversified export growth are needed to underpin
macroeconomic stability. The revenue/GDP ratio is well below the Sub-Saharan African average
of 20 percent. Overall exports have still not recovered from the slump induced by the collapse
of world coffee prices in July 1989.  The upshot of this is that the sustainability of
macroeconomic stability is closely tied to the availability of import support funds provided by the
donors. Import support per se is not as critical to the economy as it was a few years ago.
However, the government budget is just as dependent upon the local cturrency generated from
import support as, if not more so than, it was in the earlier stages of the Economic Recovery
Program.
1.19 Although the risk of policy reversal can never be ruled out, there is a fair chance that
structural reforms involving improvements in the incentive and regulatory framework as well as
in the institutional setup would be sustained. The main reason for being sanguine about tle



- 7 -
sustainability of the structural reforms is that there is no organized opposition to the reforms.
Moreover, many of the reforms have been enshrined in law so that they are not ad hoc measures
which can be easily overturned. But even if the structural reforms are sustainable, the average
rates of economic growth recorded over the past six years may not be. The main reason why
growth may falter is that savings and investment rates in Uganda are too low. The ratios of
savings and investment to GDP were 3.4 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively, in FY93. The
inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the banking system retard the mobilization and allocation of
domestic savings. Two other factors militate against the sustainability of recent rates of economic
growth. One is widespread illiteracy. The other is the combination of inadequate physical
infrastructure and weak public institutions which serve to raise the costs of doing business In
Uganda. Finally, there is the question of political stability. Given Uganda's history of political
and social turmoil, both local and foreign investors still need to be convinced that political
stability is here to stay. The parliamentary and presidential elections due at the end of 1994 will
provide a test of that.
1.20 Progress in Poverty Reduction and Improvement of Social Indicators. One of the
findings of the 1992 Bank CEM entitled Growing Out of Poverty is that on average the welfare
of the rural and urban poor improved in real terms by 16 and 14 percent, respectively, between
FY88 and FY92. Although difficult to disaggregate, the improvement in welfare appears at least
partly attributable to the adjustment program. Other factors at work were the restoration of peace
and security to the entire country and inflows of significant amounts of external resources from
multilateral and bilateral donors. Another finding of the CEM is tht, even though US dollar
prices have declined, producers of cash crops have seen a rise in their terms of trade owing to
reforms in the exchange, trade, tax and marketing systems. The poor benefitted from this
development as the main cash crops are produced by smallholders. The terms of trade for
marketed foodstuffs declined as supplies increased. The incomes of foodstuff producers
nevertheless lose because the impact of production increases more than offset the effect of price
declines.
1.21   The social sectors were not immune from the general collapse that Uganda suffered
during the 1970s and the first half of the 1980s. The poor health status of Uganda's 17 million
people attests to this. Life expectancy at birth is 46 years compared to 59 years for low-income
countries as a group (see Annex TV, CAS Table 3). With an infant mortality rate of 118 per
1,000 live births and a maternal mortality rate of 550 per 100,000 live births, Uganda also ranks
well behind other low-income countries with regard to these health indicators. Preventable
diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and diarrhea continue to be leading causes of death. Lack
of access to safe drinling water is a major contributory factor to the health problems facing the
country. Only 21 percent of the population have access to safe drinking water. The fertility rate
(7.3 in 1990) in Uganda is high; this is an indication of the lack of an effective population policy.
The education indicators are equally poor. Primary school enrollment is about 71 percent but
this is somewhat deceptive as completion rates are esdmated to be as low as 32 percent.
Moreover, owing to lack of instructional materials, shortage of trained teachers and low pay, the
quality of the education is very poor. Over the past six years the Government has taken
important steps towards laying the groundwork for improvements in the social indicators. It has
embarked upon the physical rehabilitation of the infrastructure in the social sectors while
increasing budgetary allocations for operations and mainenance, especially instructional
materials. It has carried out a review of social sector policies. An important outcome of this



- 8 -
review Is that the Government will concentrate its limited resources on basic social services which
have the broadest impact on the population. In FY94 the Government singled out the teachers
for special treatment; it doubled the salary of the lowest-paid teacher while civil servants of
similar rank received a salary Increment of only 19 percent. The Government recognizes that
these efforts can only bear fruit In the long term.
1.22   The Extemal Environment. Uganda's accomplishments to date with regard to
stabilization, adjustment and growth have been in spite of a number of setbacks on the external
firont. To start with, Uganda is a landlocked country, dependent upon its neighbors for outlets
to the sea. On occasion Kenya has closed its borders with Uganda, causing disruption to the flow
of imports and exports. Fortunately, these episodes have been few and short-lived. The real
extal shock has been the massive deterioration in Uganda's terms of trade. In FY90 alone the
merchandise terms of trade declined by 72 percent as a result of the collapse of international
coffee prices. There were further declines of 6 percent and 14 percent, respectively, in FY91
and FY92. The coffee price decline wreaked havoc on Uganda's balance of payments. Coffee
export earnings declined from US$286 million in FY88 to US$104 million in FY93, with
resultant severe limitations on the capacity to import and service extemal debt. One outcome of
this is that Uganda accumulated sizable arrears to its external creditors (see Table I). The
government budget was also adversely affected by the sharp fall in world coffee prices which
destroyed the tax base for coffee revenue which accounted for almost half of government revenue
at the start of the ERP. The Government responded to the world price decline by liberalizing
coffee exports, freeing the producer prices of coffee, abolishing the export tax and allowing
coffee export proceeds to be convered into local currency at the market exchange rate.
1.23   Uganda's dependence on a single commodity, that is, coffee, for merchandise export
earnings is still high (about 66 percent in FY93) but is nowhere near as high as it was (around
95 percent) four years ago. The share of official development assistance in total public
expenditure is very high. Aid accounts for up to 90 percent of annual development expenditure.
Apart from project aid, exter  assistce provides about a third of budgetary resources in the
form of local currency generated from sales of import support fimds. Uganda's total stock of
trnal debt was US$2.6 billion as of the end of June 1993 (see Table 1). The debt-service
burden has been coming down but remains onerous; in FY93 the debt service ratio before
rescheduling was 83 percent. About two thirds of the debt is owed to the multlateral
development institutions. This reduces Uganda's options for seeking debt relief.
C. Uganda's Development Objectives and Policies
1.24 Sources of Growth. Uganda is an agricultural country and will remain so for a long time
to come. The transformation of agriculture is therefore key to any successfil development
strategy. The sector has great potential: it can feed a growing population; supply the regional
market with food; generate new exports as well produce more of the traditional export crops; and
be a source of industrial raw materias. The key to realizing this potential is by increasing crop
yields. For a wide variety of crops yields can be doubled, or even tripled. The prerequisites to
increasing yields include improved security of land tenure, enhanced availability of basic social
services and increased but more focused public expenditure on research and extension, control
of plant and animal disease and feeder roads. Ihe industrial sector also offers scope for increased
production, with obvious linkages to the agricultural sector. At present, the emphasis is on
import-replacing investments. But as the experience of countries such as the Republic of Korea,
Malaysia and China has demonstrated, import substitution is likely to be efficient only if it is part



.9 -
of an outward-oriented development strategy. Given the dearth of lonterm fiace, the absenco
of modern tecnology and the lack of knowledge of foreign markets and modern management
practices, foreigp investment can play a crucial role in promoting Industrial development.
Agricultural and industrial growth would be enhanced by the development of key services such
as banking and finance, insurance, accounting and auditing.
Table I: EtRna Debt by Creditor (as of June 30, 1993)
(USS million)
Arars
Creditor            Debt Outaig
inluding APncpal  ntert  Total DOD
lPicpal Arrar
Multiateral                             1,835        12       9        1,843
IDA/IBRD                              1,174        0        0        1,174
IMP                                     344        0        0         344
Other                                   317        12       9         326
BilateWals                                 621       148      41         663
Non-OOECD                               365       120      16         381
Pais Club, PreCutoff                    152        4       19         171
Pais Club, Post-Cutoff                  104       24        7         110
Psivate                                    108        59      29         137
Commerci Non-Baub                       55        30        6          61
Commei Bank                              11       11        3          14
Otder Lan Category                      42         17      20          62
Total                                    2,564       218      79        2,643
Sour:  EDMO, Bank of Uada
1.25  Key Constanh  on Growth and Developmnt. Political iostability in the 1971-1985
period was a major hindrane to development In Uganda. This Is no longer the case. Since
January 1986 the cunry has been politically stable. Moreover, the quality of governa   has
improved a great deal, as shown by the Governmne's commimnto accountability ad te rule
of law. The present indications are that polidcal stability in a democratic frmework will
condne to prevail in UgVda. his should boer Investor confidence and thus induce increased
long-term investment. Until recentiy, macroeconomic instablity, c  principally by
high and volatle inflation, was a key constraint on economic gowth. On this score too there has
been a draumatic turnaround over the past two years, with inflaon beIg virtually eldmna  by
the end of FY93. However, the fight against inflation is far from over. Uganda needs to
demonsrate its commitment to the mainace of low and stble inflation in the long term and
thus give people the condce to save and make long-term invstmen. The key remain
constraints on growth and development are low saving and investment rates, low rates of literacy
and numeracy, indequate physical ifastucture and ineffective and inefficient public sector
Insiuions. As elabord below, the basic goal of goverme policy is to fmd ways and mns
of overcomi   ese consain.



- 10-
1.26  Development Objectives and Polides. The Government's development objectives and
policies are set out in the Policy Framework Paper, 1992193-1994/95. The primary development
objective is to rapidly improve the living standards of the population through accelerated
economic growth and human resource development. To bring this about the Government will
maintain prudent macroeconomic policies, improve public sector management, promote private
sector development and protect the environment.
1.27   Sustained macroecononmiQ.  hiily is the first prerequisite to accelerated economic growth
and poverty reduction. The Government therefore intends to pursue prudent fiscal, monetary and
exchange rate policies aimed at managing aggregate demand, mobilizing domestic resources and
promoting external competitiveness. The Government's objective is to keep inflation below 10
percent. Attaining this goal will take a firmer fiscal stance which in turn calls for increasing
public revenues sharply and maintaining firm control over public expenditure while implementing
a sound set of spending priorities. In this regard, the Government continues to implement an
IMF-supported program in the context of the fourth annual arrangement under the ESAF which
has been extended to June 30, 1994.
1.28  The public sector will focus on its basic functions of maintaining macroeconomic stability,
providing adequate infrastructure and developing human resources. Further reform of ukllc
sector management will build upon the progress that has been made in three interrelated areas
namely, civil service and parastatal reform, domestic revenue generation and public expenditure
prioritization. In the case of the civil service substantial progress has already been made in
reducing staff numbers and instituting controls on hiring and the payroll; between July 1993 and
January 1994 over 25,000 ghosts were eliminated. The size of the military has also been reduced
by over a quarter. The Government will continue to work towards the creation of a smaller,
better-paid and more competent civil service. As the civil service is slimmed down further, the
ministries will be appropriately reorganized and restructured so that they can focus on those
critical functions and activities that, in whole or in part, should be undertaken by the public
sector. The Government has also embarked upon decentralization. It will place increasing
emphasis on decentralization over the next few years as it considers initiatives in this area to be
essential to improving the delivery of public services. In order to maximize the peace dividend
from the cessation of rebel activity, the Government plans to complete the implementation of the
veterans assistance program before the end of FY96. Parastatat reform, including divestiture,
is underway, with 3 public enterprises already sold and another 23 put up for sale. In addition,
8 parastatals have been liquidated. Divestiture of government interests in commercial activities
will be accelerated and broadened, where necessary. Revenue generation is another important
public sector management issue which has serious implications for the maint-mnance of
macroeconomic stability and the Government's ability to pay a living wage, maintain and expand
the economic and social infrastructure and develop human resources. Uganda's revenue/GDP
ratio has only risen by about 2 percentage points from the start of the adjustment program to 7.2
percent in FY93 compared to an average of 20 percent for Sub-Saharan African countries. In
view of this the Government will intensify recent efforts to improve tax administration and
broaden the tax base.  The other public expenditure management issue is expenditure
prioritization. A start was made by designating, since FY91, a set of basic recurrent expenditure
programs (primary education, primary health, agricultural research and extension, rural water
supply and road maintence) as candidates for increased budgetary allocations. This was
followed in FY94 by the classification of the development budget into core and noncore projects.



- l -
The Government intends to tighten expenditure priorities. In this regard, it wili, given the
paucity of domestic revenue and the limitations on implementation capacity, concentrate available
resources on the essential tasks of improving the incentive structure for civil servants, making
adequate provision for the operation and maintenance of basic economic and social infrastructre
and expanding the stock of infrastructure that is likely to have the broadest impact on the
population.
1.29   The private sector holds the key to increased production for the local market and for
export. The Government will therefore continue to foster rivate setor develomn. Its
approach is to rely on market forces. The most recent actions in this regard include the
deregulation of the cotton industry and the removal of the remaining regulatory restrictions on
the coffee trade. The utility companies excepted, these actions more or less complete the removal
of sectoral impediments to private investment. The establishment of free markets is, however,
not enough. Petty bureaucracy is still a major impediment to investment and production. This
is a problem that the Government will increasingly turn its attention to. Even more important,
the Government needs to create the conditions necessay for rapid increases in domestic savings
which are now equivalent to only 3.4 percent (GNS-to-GDP ratio) of GDP. An efficient and
effective banking system is indispensable to any effort to step up the mobilization of domestic
savings. The Government will strive for the emergence of such a banking system. The
Government's other major goal is to make Uganda an attractive destination for direct foreign
investment (DFI), as it is crucial to supplement domestic savings with private foreign savings.
1.30 In the field of environment Nrotection the fundamental issue that the Government faces
is that poverty, population and the environment feed on each other in a destructive way: poverty
encourages rapid population growth; rapid population growth in turn increases pressure on the
environment; a degraded environment breeds further poverty and so on. To arrest this spiral of
destruction the Government will use the NEAP as a basis to improve environment and natural
resource management. This will involve establishment of an environmental database and
monitoring system; research and land management to ensure sustainable agriculturd development;
protection of wedands; conservation of forests and wildlife; and improvement of surface water
manlagement.
D. Bank Group Assisance Strtegy
1.31 The primary objective of Bank Group assistance to Uganda is to help the country lay the
foundations for rapid, sustained and equitable growth as an instrument for poverty reduction. To
that end the Bank Group's assistance strategy aims to support the Government's efforts to sustain
macroeconomic stability, raise the standard of public administration, create the conditions
necessary for the emergence of a strong private sector and protect the environment. The
implementation of this strategy will require a combination of the usual Bank instruments, that is,
policy dialogue with the Government, economic and sector work, lending operations and portfolio
management and supervision. The discussion of these instruments is preceded by a brief review
of the prospects for accelerated economic growth.
1.32 Econondc Prospects. Uganda's economic prospects depend upon how quickly the
fndamentals of development can be put into place. The first fundamental is macroeconomic
stability. The Government has now achieved macroeconomic stability but must work assiduously



- 12 -
to sustain it. To assure continued macroeconomic stability the Government will have to step up
domestic revenue generation and enlarge the constituency which supports sound fiscal and
monetary policies. The Ugandan economy has also changed in another fundamental way: it is
now free of major distortions in the incentive and regulatory framework. However, other
fundamentals are not so sound. Specifically, Uganda is deficient in human capital, lacks a strong
financial system, is saddled with low productivity in agriculture and is devoid of strong and
effective public institutions. Remedying the deficiencies in these four areas while consolidating
macroeconomic stability is the key to accelerated growth and poverty reduction in Uganda. The
base case scenario presented in Table U below assumes the continuation of present trends. In this
case economic growth would remain level at 5 percent through the year 2000. Table II also
presents a high case scenario. This scenario assumes that the Government moves quicldy to
develop human capital, create a strong financial system, raise agricultural productivity and build
strong institutions. The projections in Table II indicate that if these efforts are successful the
annual growth rate would rise to around 8 percent by the year 2000. With population growing
at 2.7 percent per annum, economic growth at 8 percent a year would make it possible to double
GDP per capita in 14 years, instead of 31 years which would be the case under a 5 percent
growth scenario.
1.33 Assessment of the Government's Development Strategy. Tne Government's
development strategy focusing on poverty reduction through growth and spending on social sector
programs is sound. The Bank has no differences with the Government, or with the IMP and
other donors, on this strategy. However, there have been differences with the Government with
regard to the speed and sequencing of a number of policies (exchange rate unification, for
example) needed to implement the strategy. Similarly, there have been differences with the
Government regarding the delineation of a core of recurrent and development expenditures which
are better geared to overcoming the deficiencies in human capital formation, agricultura
development and other areas. The basic principles underlying the core/noncore disdnction have
been agreed with the Government. Obtaining the agreement of the other donors to put these
principles into practice is, however, proving more difficult.
1.34   Bank Intruments for Implementing the Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank
Group has had a constructive Qliy dialogue with the Government over the past six years. The
issues that are usually the source of controversy (the exchange rate, interest rates, pricing, etc.)
have already been successfully dealt with. Still there is a need for continuing dialogue with the
Government in a number of areas. In the area of macroeconomic management the dialogue will
focus on tax and expenditure policy, with the aim of building upon the recent gains In domestic
revenue collection and expenditure control and establishing and adhering to a set of spending
priorities which address the fundmentals of development. In the area of public sector
management the dialogue will concentrate on further shifts in the role of the state (pruning of the
civil service, privatization and liquidation of parastatals) and improved performance and
accountability. Dialogue on private sector development will aim at improving the legal and
regulatory climate for business at the micro level.
1.35 The Bank has produced a considerable body of eonQmic and sector work (ESW) on
Uganda. The most recent includes an Agricultural Sector Memorandum, a Country Economic
Memorandum entitied Growing Out of Povert and a Social Sector Strategy Report, aU issued
between March and April 1993. A study of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) has also



Table II: Projections - Key In,dicators for CAS
Growth Rates - In Percent
Exports of GNFS, constant           16.5   18.5   11.7   7.8    8.0   8.1            16.5   18.5     14.3   12.3    12.1    13.1
Exports of GNFS, nominal           23.2   28.7   18.4  12.6   11.0   9.5            23.2   28.7      21.2   17.0    15.0    14.8
Imports of GNFS, constant           19.2    8.9    4.7   4.5    4.0   3.8            19.2    8.9      6.5    6.3      7.3     7.2
ImportsofGNFS, nominal             21.1   11.5    7.2   7.1    6.6   6.1            21.1   11.5       9.0    9.0    10.0      9.6
GDP at FC                           6.1    5.0    5.0   5.0    5.0   5.0             6.1    6.        6.6    7.1      8.2     8.2
GDP at MP                            6.5    5.6    5.5   5.6    5.0   5.0             6.5    6.7      7.1    7.7      8.2     8.2
Ratios to GDP -in Percent
CurTent Acct, incl. Grants          -2.9   -3.1   -3.1  -3.1   -3.0  -3.0            -2.9   -3.0     -3.5   -3.6    -3.7    -3.5
Current Acct, excl. Grants          -9.0   -7.8   -7.3  -7.0   -5.9  -5.5            -9.0   -7.7     -7.3   -6.9    -5.7    -5.1
Fiscal Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)       -10.5   -9.5   -8.6  -7.9   -1.3   0.1           -10.5   -9.5     -8.0   -6.8      1.8     3.0
Other Rados - In Percent
Debt Service/Exports GNFS           63.8   47.2   44.1  40.8   36.6  38.5           63.8   47.2      43.5   39.8    34.8    31.6
ConsumptionlGDY                    101.6  100.0   98.7  97.5   94.4  93.1           101.6   99.3     97.8   96.5    92.5    91.3
Gross National SavingslGNY          5.0    7.3    8.1   9.1   11.4  12.3              5.0    7.9      8.8    9.7    12.3    13.0
Levels - In US$ milons
Current Account - US$m            -348.4  -334.7  -344.4 -355.9  -402.7 -435.6      48.4  -334.6   -353.4  -369.5  -463.2  -513.0
Direct Foreign Investment - US$m     5.0    6.0    7.0   8.0   27.4  36.2             5.0    7.0     10.0   25.0    75.0   117.2
Sources:   Government of Uganda, IMF and Bank staff esfimates.



- 14 -
been completed. These various pieces of work provide the underpinning for the Bank's dialogue
with the Govermnent on macroeconomic and sector policies and the lending program. More
ESW is in progress or is plarmed for the next few years. The National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) is nearing completion. This year's Public Expenditure Review has involved
working with the Government and other donors to bring about further improvements in the
allocation of public resources. The CEM planned for FY95 will explore in greater depth the key
policies and programs needed to achieve rapid, sustained and labor-absorbing growth. Sector
work will concentrate on issues of competitiveness and investment constraints in industry, land
tenure in agriculture and resources assessment in the water sector. An assessment of the energy
situation is under preparation.
1.36 The "base" IDA lending program proposed for Uganda would provide about US$200
million per year, or US$1,000 million for 16 operations over the period 1993-97. This level of
IDA financing is conditional upon the Government keeping its stabilization and structural
adjustment program on track. Tae proposed lending program is somewhat smaller than the
US$250 million per year committed in the FY90-92 period; this reflects the expected tailing-off
of adjustment lending and the constraint on new investment lending due mainly to lack of budget
resources. Investment lending is likeih to be particularly constrained in the next year or two, as
Uganda tries to bring its development budget more in line with its capacity to inplement projects
and fund the requirements for operations and maintenance. Uganda's stabilization and adjustment
effort is not expected to slacken, but should it do so for some reason, the proposed lending
program would be scaled down. In the event of a major reversal in disciplined macroeconomic
management or a slackening of the pace of structural reform (with some of the critical reform
conditions incorporated in the SAC not being met) IDA would retreat to a core program of not
more than US$80 million a year focussed on direct poverty-reducing activities such as basic
education and health.
1.37  The lending program seeks to achieve a balance between investment projects and quick-
disbursing import support. The focus of investment lending is on growth (agriculture and
infrastructure development) and improvement of the social indicators (human resource
development). To this end, IDA is supporting agricultural extension and agricultural research
and training through projects approved in FY93. These projects have a strong focus on reducing
poverty and improving the economic status of women. The Fifth Education Project, also
approved in FY93, is aimed mainly at improving primary education. Also approved in FY93 is
the Economic and Financial Management Project which supports further strengthening of the core
economic agencies. FSAC, approved in FY93, is designed to improve the legal and regulatory
framework for financial intermediaries and strengthen the financial system. Projects already
approved in FY94 include the Transport Project to rehabilitate feeder roads and strengthen road
maintenance capacity, the Suall Towns Water Project and the Sexually Transmitted Infections
Project designed to reduce the incidence and impact of sexually transmitted infections including
HIV/AIDS. The other FY94 project is the Cotton Development Project. Other investment
projects in the pipeline include District Health, Institutional Development and Environmental
Management in FY95, followed by Agriculture Sector Investment and Private Sector
Development in FY96. In one way or other, these projects will benefit the agricultural sector
which provides a livelihood for 80 percent or more of the population and where over 90 percent
of the poor eke out a living.



- 15 -
1.38 Since 1987 Uganda has received five adjustment credits. The first two credits, ERC I
and ERC II, have been fully disbursed. The first sector adjustment operation, the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit, was approved by the Board on December 13, 1990. This is a hybrid
operation with an adjustment component and a small investment component. All the major
objectives of this credit have been largely achieved. The second tranche of ASAC was releas Ad
in December 1992. ASAC was followed by the first Structural Adjustment Credit. The twin
objectives of SAC I namely, enhancing private sector development and Improving public sector
management, have been achieved in many important respects. The second tranche of SAC I was
released in March 1993. The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit was approved by the Board in
May 1993 and became effective on August26, 1993; some delay in release of the second tranche,
scheduled for August 1994, is likely. The current lending program includes one further
adjustment operation in FY96.
1.39   An important instrument for getting results on the ground is portfollo Mana.gagn    and
ugrision. The status of the existing portfolio is presented in Annex IV, CAS Table 6. There
are twenty-seven projects under implementation.  Most projects are rated as satisfactory.
However, the implementation of investment projects has generally been slow. There are three
principal reasons for this. First, In the past project start-up was often delayed because of the
failure to put in place the requisite project management team or to meet the conditions of
effectiveueiis in a timely manner. Secondly, the availability of counterpart funis nas been a
major problem. Thirdly, there are weaknesses in procurement which cause delays in project
implementation.
1.40   A number of steps have been taken to meet both these generic and project specific
problems. Starting in mid-1993, IDA has worked to help the Government identify a core list of
highest priority on-going projects which are to receive full counterpart funding. While there have
been some problems in its application, this approach has helped improve Implementation of IDA-
fimanced and other donor-financed projects included in the core program On the basis of this
effort by the Government to rationalize its development budget, restructring of IDA-financed
projects has been initiated, and the remaining problem projects are currently under intensive
review and discussion with the Government, aimed at their restructuring or cancellation. A
number of other generic issues have been addressed through the Country Portfolio Performance
Reviews. IDA has assisted the Government to improve its procurement procedures and practices
both through the CPPRs and a procurement assessment. The operation and accounting for special
accounts has been improved, in part by shifting them from the Bank of Uganda to commercial
banks, and the timeliness and accuracy of audits has been increased by Government's agreeing
to appoint private auditors to do this task. While problems remain in the portfolio, progress has
been made and implementation is improving.
Main Features of the Bank1s Assistance Strategy
1.41 Sustained Macroeconomic Stability. Uganda has been very successful In reducing
inflation over the past two years. Fears had been expressed that the sharp disinflation that
occurred in FY93 would trigger an economic downturn. This has not happened. On the
contrary, the economy grew by 7.2 percent in FY93, reinforcing the twin messages that
squeezing inflation out of the economy is not inimical to growth and that macroeconomic stability
is needed to give both Ugandans and foreigners confidence to invest and produce.



- 16 -
Macroeconomic stability is basic to the success of the entire adjustment program. The Bank's
assistance strategy will therefore give special emphasis to helping the Government to maintin
price stability and a competitive exchange rate and overcome debt servicing difficulties.
1.42 Human Capital Formation. Uganda needs to invest more in human capital formation,
especially primary education and primary health. This will benefit the poor directly. It would
also prepare them to participate more fully in the growth of the economy. The Bank's assistance
strategy aims to: support the Govermnent's efforts to expand basic education and health services
to the entire population; reflect the emphasis on development of human capital in the Bank's own
lending program; and build consensus among the donors on the need for redirecing resource
towaras basic education and health.
1.43 Agricultural Development. Poverty in Uganda is largely a rural phenomenon. the
attack on poverty must therefore focus on agricultural development. Ugandan agriculture is
technologically very backward. High-yielding varieties, even when they are available, are
practically unknown outside of the research stations. Fertilizer is used on a very limited s:ale.
The extension services are ineffective. The challenge for the Bank is to assist the Government
to raise the productivity of the farmers through improved research and extension and an expanded
feeder road network.
1.44  Strengthening the Financial System. The financial sector has a key role to play in the
mobilization and allocation of resources. In Uganda the financial system barely extends beyond
the capital, Kampala. Worse still, the operations of the banks are clouded by insolvency, weak
mnanagement controls and inadequate prudential supervision. Given the critical role the financ
system must play in raising savings and investment rates, the Bank's assistance stratea wiU
emphasize the speedy reorganization (including privatization) of the problem banks and beefed-up
supervision by the central bank.
1.45  Improving Public Sector Management. Much progress has been made in getting the
Government out of a host of activities which more properly belong to the private sector. This
process has to continue. But even with the diminished state involvement in the economy, the
Government is in many respects incapable of discharging its remnaining functions satisfactorily.
This means that the performance of the public service requires significant improvement.
Wholesale improvement will be difficult and will take considerable time. The Bank's assistance
strategy to institution building will therefore include innovative approaches to creatg a core of
public servants capable of managing the economy from policy formulation to program
monitoring.
External Flnandng Requirenents
1.46 While meeting an increasing percentage of foreign exchange requirements from its own
resources, Uganda will, over the medium term, continue to rely on foreign assistance on a
significant scale. Annex m.2 presents the estimated financing requirements for the period
1993/94-1995/96. The balance of payments is presented in Annex M. 1. This table shows that
the balance of payments is improving but remains fragile. Coffee export earnings declined
further, from US$117 million in the previous year to US$104 million in FY93. International
coffee prices have picked up recendy to around US$1.20/kg, with beneficial effects on Uga sda's



- 17 -
balance of payments, but whether or not these prices would be sustained remains to be seen.
With regard to noncoffee exports, the recorded data, which are far from comprehensive, present
a picture of stagnation but there is strong anecdotal evidence that noncoffee exports have been
growing rapidly.
1.47  Imports have been rather volatile over the past few years, declining in FY92 before
picking up again in FY93. The projected financing requirements assume that GDP would grow
by about 5 percent per annum over the next few years. On the assumption that a sizeable amount
of arrears would be carried forward, Annex m.2 shows that Uganda's FY94 external financing
requirements will be fully met. Uganda's FY95 external financing requirements are estimated
at US$1,159 million. Available financing consists of US$593 million in export earnings plus
private transfers and US$383 million in drawings on existing donor commitments, leaving a
financing gap of US$183 million, to which must be added arrears of US$232 million, bringing
the overall gap to US$415 million. New commitments of project aid needed to fill this gap
would have to be tailored more closely to Uganda's expenditure priorities, especialy in the social
sectors, and its ability to adequately fund operations and maintenance expenditures and
counterpart fund requirements. With regard to balance of payments support, much greater
flexibility is needed to meet Uganda's requirements which are now not so narrowly focused on
foreign exchange with which to pay for merchandise imports and related services. The
Consultative Group for Uganda is expected to meet again in July 1994 to consider the country's
external financing requirements.
1.48   A key issue in addressing Uganda's external financing requirements is the overhang of
debt. The total stock of external debt is estimated at US$2.6 billion. Servicing this debt in the
face of depressed international coffee prices has posed a serious challenge for the Government.
The debt-service ratio remains high for three reasons. First, nearly two thirds of the debt is
multilateral debt which cannot be rescheduled. Secondly, the Paris Club cut-off date is June 1981
which severely limits the amount of debt that is eligible for relief. Thirdly, It is only recently
that Uganda implemented the decision to borrow only on the most concessional terms. The
Government's objective is to normalize relations with its creditors. To this end it has been
implementing a six-pronged strategy, with the following elements: year-by-year rescheduling of
eligible Paris Club debt; maximum anmnal deferral of post-cut-off debt on a bilateral basis; write-
off or long-term rescheduling of arrears and debt owed to non-OECD bilateral creditors;
extension of bilateral balance of payments support to multilateral debt service; buy-back of
uninsured commercial debt; and cessation of government or government-guaranteed external
borrowing on all but the most concessional terms. Implementation of the debt strategy has met
with some success. In June 1992 the Paris Club granted Uganda enhanced Toronto terms which
it has extended to June 1994. A similar treatment is expected in FY95. Using the Debt
Reduction Facility for IDA-Only Countries, Uganda bought back in FY93 US$152 million of
uninsured commercial debt (representing 6 percent of the total debt and 63 percent of the
commercial debt) at 12 cents on the dollar.
IFC and MIGA
1.49 IFC has investments in agro-business (sugar and tea) and in financial services
(development banking and insurance). Through the African Enterprise Fund, IFC has supported



- 18-
four smaller projects. It has also completed for the Government three advisory assignments
covering cotton, telecommunications and the stock market. IFC's priorities are to render further
assistance in relation to the privatization process and institution building in the financial sector
while continuing its traditional investment role when suitable project opportunities arise. MIGA
has also been active in Uganda. It has issued guarantees against the risks of expropriation and
war and civil disturbance for a cobalt extraction project and a fish processing project. In
addition, MIGA organized a workshop in June 1992 which brought together policy implementors
and their private sector counterparts to discuss regulatory rules and procedures which discourage
direct foreign investment.
Relations with the IMF and other Donors
1.50 The Bank and the IMF have worked closely to monitor the adjustment program and to
help the C0vernment design the next phase of reform, particularly with regard to the integration
of the foreign exchange markets, improvement of the tax system and the restructuring of the
financial system. There is also increased coordination with other donors through the regular local
donor representatives meetings. Donor coordination is especially important for the purpose of
liberalizing and harmonizing import support disbursement procedures further and prioritizing
public expenditure. Representatives of a number of donors participated in the preparation of the
credit.
Key Issues for Consideration
1.51   Summary Assessment. Uganda has implemented a wide range of macroeconomic and
structural adjustment policies since it launched its economic recovery program in May 1987.
Most of the important issues relating to the macroeconomic frontier have been successfully dealt
with. Also measures have been introduced to address the most important structural impediments
to growti and human resource development. Owing mainly to capacity constraints, the
implementation of structural reforms in certain key areas (financial sector restructuring, public
expenditure prioritization, etc) has been slow. From every indication the Government's
commitment to the maintenance of macroeconomic stability is firm. The only caveat Is that the
forthcoming parliamentary and presidential elections could test its resolve to pursue prudent
macroeconomic policies. On the other hand, its ability to actually implement structural measures
in a number of areas will remain limited for some time to come.
1.52 Issues for Board Consideration. The Board may wish to focus on the following issues
which are critical to assessing economic and social progress in Uganda:
o     The maintenance of macroeconomic stability.
*     Public expenditure prioritization.
o     The attainment of balance of payments viability.
*     The achievement of higher rates of saving and investment.
0     Improvements in governance and public administration.



- 19 -
Part II. The Second Structural Adjustment Credit
2.1    Against the background of the recent CEM focusing on poverty, the proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Credit has as its theme poverty reduction through accelerated economic
growth and rapid human resource development. To that end it will assist the Governmenw to
achieve the following key objectives: further deregulation of the economy, focusing on
liberalization of the cotton and coffee subsectors; completion of the divestiture of the Custodian
Board properties; further improvement in revenue generation; prioritization of public expenditure;
and raising efficiency in the civil service. The following sections describe the main components
of the credit. The reform program is presented in a policy matrix in Annex HI.
A. The Regulatory and Business Climate
2.2    The regulatory and business climate has greatly improved over the past five years. This
has come about as a result of the following actions: import and export licensing was eliminated;
except for a handful of items, import prohibitions were lifted; price controls have been abolished;
export monopolies have been eliminated; a new Investment Code was introduced and the Uganda
Investment Authority created to administer the Code; the restrictive Industrial Licensing Act was
repealed; the exchange and payments system has been nearly fully liberalized; and for all exports
the requirement that export proceeds be surrendered to the central bank was eliminated.
2.3   In spite of the above actions, regulatory barriers still hold back private sector activity in
certain areas. Removing these barriers will involve, in the main, legislative and institutional
changes. The key issues which form the basis of the program being supported by SAC IH are
discussed below.
2.4    Further Liberalization of the Coffee Subsector. The opening up of coffee exports to
private traders, with the support of ASAC, has had important beneficial effects on the economy.
To start with, the availability of crop financing has ceased to be a problem since financing is now
provided by the traders, their foreign principals or local banks, or some combination of these
three, rather than by the central bank. Moreover, owing to increased competition for the crop,
farmers are receiving prompt payment and somewhat higher prices in spite of low world prices.
Consequently, they are showing renewed interest in replanting old coffee bushes, especially with
clonal varieties. The Government has decided to reinforce this positive trend by removing the
remaining barriers to the coffee trade. In January 1994 it removed the restriction on the method
by which exporters can sell coffee. Before then exporters were not allowed to sell coffee by any
method other than by tender, unless the, transaction was prefinanced. At the same time the
Government lifted the ban on road transport of coffee to the sea ports. This ban had meant that
all coffee had move to the coast by rail. In theory, the Government could have issued permits
for road transport of coffee when the Uganda Railways Corporation (URC) proved incapable of
meeting demand from coffee exporters but no such permits were issued. The result was that
URC had a complete monopoly on the transport of coffee to the ports. At the peak of the coffee
season URC had been known to let exporters down by failing to move coffee to the ports in time
to meet delivery dates. The Government has also begun to deal with another restraint on the
coffee trade; that is, the floor price mechanism which allows the Uganda Coffee Development
Authority (UCDA) to fix minimum export prices below which traders cannot sell coffee. Given
real competition in domestic procurement of coffee and a very liberal exchange and payments



- 20 -
system, there is no longer any justification for the floor price mechanism. The Government will,
as a condition of second tranche release, abolish the floor price mechanism. In the meantime the
Government, in consultation with the private exporters, revised the formula used to calculate the
export floor price and started to announce the export floor price before 10:00 a.m. each day.
To give exporters some flexibility in their marketing decisions, the announced floor price is kept
a few US cents per pound below the price given by the formula. The Government also amended
the UCDA Statute to restructure the UCDA and eliminate licensing of exporters. Prior to the
amendment the Minister responsible for Trade and Industry appointed all the members of the
UCDA Board of Directors, most of whom were civil servants. The new membership of the
Board is more representative of the industry. The ultimate goal is to turn the UCDA into an
industry-based organization. Licensing was abolished because it had served as barrier to entry
into the coffee export business. In place of licensing the Government will, by regulations made
under the UCDA Statute, introduce a system of registration under which an exporter will pay a
registration fee and post a performance bond prior to commencing business. Issuance of these
regulations is a condition of credit effectiveness. The Government will also change UCDA's role
in export quality control to the training of coffee graders and monitoring of quality. Actual
quality control will be the responsibility of the coffee processors. As a condition of eredit
effectiveness the procedures governing the delegation of quality control authority to the
processors will also be laid down through regulations made under the UCDA Statute.
2.5   Since 1990 the Coffee Marketing Board Limited (CMBL) has operated in a competitive
environment. Still, the Government wants to ensure that CMBL does not squander the
considerable assets (estimated at U Sh 67 billion) that it accumulated as a parastatal. These assets
include warehouses in Mombasa, real estate in Kampala and the Bugolobi coffee processing plant.
CMBL has suffered a heavy loss of market share (down to 40 percent compared to 100 percent
three years ago) without a commensurate reduction in its overheads. As a result, its coffee
trading activity is now effectively subsidized with profits from other activities, especially coffee
processing at Bugolobi. CMBL needs to disengage from unprofitable activities which have
necessitated cross-subsidies in its operations. The Government's medium-term objective for
CMBL is to privatize it.
2.6   Liberalization and Revitalization of the Cotton Subsector. In the 1960s and early
1970s, Uganda derived up to 25 percent of its foreign exchange earnings from cotton. The
political, military and economic turmoil that engulfed the country between 1972 and 1986 was
accompanied by a sharp decline of the cotton industry. The seed multiplication system collapsed
and, with the rapidly declining crop size, seed for replanting became increasingly scarce. In the
scramble for seed in the northern growing areas, the seed cotton and planting seed for the two
varieties, SATU and BPA, became mixed, with the result that some of the characteristics that
earned Ugandan lint a premium on the international market were lost. Not only was seed in short
supply but mandatory seed dressing with cuprous oxide to prevent bacterial blight was not done
or was not done properly, leading to the breakdown of genetic resistance of both SATU and BPA
to the disease. Moreover, the SATU-growing areas of the northeast which depended on work
oxen to prepare land for cotton lost almost all the animals as a result of the civil wars and cattle
raiding. Moreover, the late 1960s cotton ginning had become the monopoly of the cooperative
unions while the Lint Marketing Board (LMB) was granted a complete monopoly of the cotton
lint and cotton seed trade.



-21 -
2.7   For a variety of reasons, including political interference, management standards in the
cooperative unions and LMB deteriorated drastically. At present all but four or five of the
eighteen cooperative unions are insolvent or nearly so. Another prime cause of their insolvency
is the heavy burden of debt that they owe to the Cooperative Bank, the Uganda Commercial Bank
and LMB. The bulk of the debt was incurred for the purpose of rehabilitating the ginneries, but
in most instances the work was never completed. LMB Is also indebted to foreign buyers of
cotton for failing to honor supply contracts. The management and financial difficulties of the
unions and LMB led to a complete erosion of two of the key factors responsible for the earlier
rapid expansion of cotton output namely, ease of marketing the crop at the village level and the
reliability and promptness of payment. By the 1990191 season production had fallen from a peak
of 467,000 bales in the early 1970s to 46,000 bales which accounted for about 6 percent of
foreign exchange earnings. In the absence of a striking improvement in these two areas namely,
ease of marketing seed cotton and promptness of payment, no dramatic production increases can
be expected. Recent efforts to revive the crop without addressing these issues testify to this;
production has increased to only 65,000 in the 1992/93 season.
2.8 The Govermment has initiated actions aimed at improving the policy and institutional
framework relating to cotton production, ginning and marketing. It recently removed, de facto,
the LMB's export monopoly by granting export licenses to four cooperative unions. In addition,
some unions have started negotiating to sell or lease their ginneries to private investors.
However, further measures are needed to foster competition in ginning and marketing of cotton.
In this regard, the parliament enacted the Cotton Development Statute in January 1994; the
Statute was amended in April 1994 to remove the provision which empowered the Minister to
acquire a ginnery in the national interest. Among other things, this Statute abolished the unions'
monopoly over cotton ginning and LMB's monopoly over cotton exports; eliminated licensing
and other regulatory barriers; and established a new organization, the Cotton Development
Organization, whose main fiucdon is to regulate and organize cotton seed production, dressing
and distribution. It is the Government's intendon to turn the Cotton Development Organization
(CDO) into an industry-based organization as soon as the industry is strong enough to perform
the relevant functions.
2.9   The revitalization of the ginning industry is critical to restoring a reliable, easy and
prompt payments system at the farm level. This requires the emergence of ginneries which are
under competent management and are controlled by creditworthy operators. This in turn would
mean alliances between private investors and the cooperative unions for the purpose of
rehabilitating existing ginneries, or green-field investments in ginneries by private investors. In
principle, joint ventures between the unions and private operators offer the best prospect of
revitalizing the ginning industry in the short to medium term. However, the large overhang of
ginnery rehabilitation loans constitutes a serious impediment to the striking of such alliances
between the unions and private investors. The debts originated from ADB and IDA loans which
the Government passed on to UCB and the Coop Bank which in turn on-lent the funds to the
unions. These loans, which were instrument in creating the present installed ginning capacity
of 400,000 bales of cotton, are now nonperforming assets in the books of the two banks. Rather
than wait for these bad loans to be dealt with under the Nonperforming Loans Recovery Trust
to be set up under FSAC, the Government has decided to use the nonperforming ginnery
rehabilitation loans as leverage over the unions to facilitate the striking of business alliances
between the unions and private investors. The plan is' this: the Govermnent, together with the



-22 -
Coop Bank and UCB, would enter into a business cum debt restructuring arrangement with any
union which is ready to reorganize its ginning operations. For its part, the Government would,
if requested, provide a union with technical assistance in preparing a business plan designed to
restore financial viability within the medium term. Based on an acceptable business plan, the
Government would agree to substantially write down the union's outstanding debt, subject to the
union meeting certain benchmarks.
2.10  In November 1993 the Government notified the unions and the creditor banks of the
proposed arrangements for the restructuring of each union's ginnery business, which would
provide the basis for debt relief for the unions. The banks and interested unions have already
signified their acceptance of the Government's proposals. To prepare the way for the
restructuring and debt relief the Government has, with the assistance of a firm of auditors
recalculated each union's debt to the banks and LMB and the fair market value of the ginneries.
As a condition of second tranche release the Government will take all necessary measures to
facilitate the transfer, by way of outright sale, lease, management or by restructuring, of
ginneries with installed capacity of at least 100,000 bales to creditworthy and viable operators
(see paragraph 20 of the Letter of Development Policy).
2.11   Review of the Investment Code. The Investment Code, 1991, was brought into effect
in January, 1991 after having gone through a fairly long period of gestation during the latter part
of the 1980s when the economic policy environment was still very restrictive. The main
objectives of the Code are to provide favorable conditions for investment and to establish the
Uganda Investment Authority (UIA) to promote, facilitate and monitor investments and to advise
the Government on investment promotion policies. The establishment of the UIA and the
abolition of the Industrial Licensing Act 1969 were among the measures supported by SAC I.
2.12   The Government has had three years of experience implementing the provisions of the
Investment Code. This experience has brought out a number of issues which need to be studied
and appropriate actions taken where necessary. As presently structured, the fiscal incentives
provided under the Code (tax holidays and exemptions from customs duty and import sales tax)
pose the danger of undermining the Government's efforts aimed at stepping up domestic revenue
mobilization. In addition to having a negative revenue impact, the Investment Code creates a bias
against labor and distorts effective rates of protection by providing duty-free access to plant and
machinery.  Moreover, there are grounds for concern about the ambitions of the Uganda
Investment Authority: it has plans to establish industrial estates and construct a headquarters
building for its own use and for lease. Furthermore, the UIA's style of vetting of investment
applications is so bureaucratic as to border on licensing. The Government has therefore agreed
with IDA to carry out the review of the Investment Code and UIA's activities, which will take
into account the regional context within which Uganda must operate. Terms of reference for
the study have been agreed with IDA and consultants have been invited to submit proposals.
Signing of the contract with the consultants selected to carry out the study is a condition of credit
effectiveness,  As a condition of second tranche release the Government will consider, in
consultation with IDA, the recommendations arising from the study.
2.13 Decontrol of Petroleum Product Prices. Since FY89 the Government has implemented
fill pass-through of import and local costs of petroleum products. It has also taxed petroleum
heavily to encourage efficient use. In the case of kerosene, no firther increases in taxation are



- 23 -
now contemplated, as it Is a preferred substitute for fuelwood. However, the Government
maintained price controls on petroleum products long after all other price controls had been
abolished. Given the liberal economic environment that prevails in the country the Government
finally lifted the controls on the prices of petroleum products with effect from January 1, 1994.
B. Divestiture of the Custodian Board Properties
2.14 In August 1972 Idi Amin expelled large numbers of Asians from the country by canceling
their entry permits and certificates of residence. By Decree No. 27 of 1973, the Assets of
Departed Asians Decree, Amin vested the properties of the departed Asians in the Government
and created the Departed Asians Property Custodian Board (DAPCB) to administer the properties.
Furthermore, by the Properties and Businesses (Acquisition) Decree of 1975 (Decree 11 of 1975)
Amin nationalized 53 properties and businesses. After the overthrow of the Amin regime
Parliarm1ent passed the Expropriated Properties Act of 1982 (Act No. 9 of 1982), whose main
object is the return of the properties to the former owners. However, for a long time, the lack
of political will and the power of vested interests precluded any serious effort being made to
return the properties to the owners.
2.15  Things have changed radically over the past three years. In 1991 the Government
launched a serious effort to return the properties to the owners. The results have been
impressive. Of the original 686 noncitizen claims for repossession of properties, 640 were found
to be supported by the requisite documentation and the properties were accordingly returned to
the owners. In the case of citizen claims, over 2,000 claims have been received by the Custodian
Board, of which about 1,860 met the documentation requirements and were approved and the
properties returned to the owners.
2.16 The return of a large number of expropriated properties to the owners is one of the most
powerfil signals that the Government has given investors that Uganda respects property rights
and is serious about attracting investment. A number of the properties returned have already
undergone, or are undergoing, major rehabilitation. The Government has now embarked upon
the final phase of divestiture of the Custodian Board properties. To aid this process, a local
consultant prepared a report which clarifies many of the legal issues pertaining to the properties.
2.17   The final phase of divestiture involves a combination of repossession, compensation, sale
and reversion of the properties to the landlords. With regard to repossession the Government
issued in May 1993 a notice to all claimants, including those who had applied for compensation,
inviting them to repossess their properties. In terms of this notice the deadline for filing claims
for repossession was October 30, 1993. The properties remaining unclaimed after that date will
be disposed of in accordance with the law.
2.18   Repossession. Once the October 30, 1993 deadline for making claims for repossession
passed the Government moved swiftly to complete the repossession exercise. All the citizen and
noncitizen properties with valid repossession claims have now been returned to the owners. At
the request of would-be repossessors, the Government has given ciaimants whose documents are
incomplete up to the end of April 1994 to furnish the missing documents to the Custodian Board,
falling which their claims would be dismissed.



- 24-
2.19  Dbposal of Unclaimed Properties by Exercise of landlords' Reversionary Interats.
One of the cardinal points of the law pertaining to the Custodian Board properties is that citizen
properties are not covered by the Expropriated Properties Act. The Government could
conceivably take over the properties remaining unclaimed after the October 30, 1993 deadline for
making claims by invoking the principle of bona vacantia, i.e. goods without an owner. The
Government has decided not to follow this approach. Rather it decided to allow the unclaimed
properties which did not vest in the state to revert to the controlling authorities (i.e. urban and
town councils) and other landlords. Accordingly, the Government announced in January 1994
that the controlling authorities and other landlords are free to exercise their reversionary interests
in all the remaining unclaimed properties that are not covered by the Expropriated Properties Act.
To aid the process of reversion, as well as the sale of properties and the settlement of noncitizen
compensation claims, the Government classified the remaining properties into citizen and
noncitizen properties.
2.20 Disposal of Properties by Sale. As required under Section 8 of the Expropriated
Properties Act, the Government must issue an Order to give notice of its decision to sell or
otherwise dispose of the unclaimed noncidzen properties, including those for which compensation
cla-rms are pending. Moreover, the properties to be sold must be gazetted and a Board of Valuers
appointed as required by Section 11 of the Regulations. The Government issued the Order to sell
in January 1994. It also gazetted the properties to be sold and appointed the Board of Valuers.
2.21  Properties will be sold by competitive tender. Prospective buyers will have 30 days
within which to submit sealed bids. A 10 percent deposit will accompany each bid. Once a
winning bid has been announced the buyer will have 60 days within which to pay. Properties
may be offered for sale in lots. Properties that remain unsold after baving been offered for sale
may be re-offered for sale a second time or allowed to revert to the controlling authority or
landlord, as is the case with citizen properties. The Govement has agreed with IDA on the
procedures that will govern sales of the properties. As a condition of second tranche release the
Government will offer for sale all the properties covered by the 1982 Expropriated Properties Act
that have not been claimed by the owners or for which compensation claims are pending, taking
into account prevailing market conditions. The proceeds of sale of noncitizen properties 'which
are not the subject of compensation claims will be deposited into the Divestiture Account and will
be used to setde any other compensation claims against the Custodian Board.
2.22   Settlement of Compensation Clims. The Expropriated Properties Act does not
specifically provide for application for compensation but at the time the law came into force a
total of about 1,700 owners actually applied for compensation rather than repossession. At any
rate, in terms of Sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Act, the Government is liable to pay
compensation to noncitizens who choose not to apply for repossession. The Government accepts
the obligation to pay compensation. Its policy is that the proceeds of sale of noncitizen properties
which are the subject of compensation claims, less a deduction of not more than 5 percent to
cover sales expenses, will be remitted to the claimant. Every effort will be made to remit the
proceeds of sale to the claimant within 90 days, once he/she has provided the necessary address
and account particulars. The Government has developed and announced the detailed procedures
that will govern the setdement of compensation claims.



- 25 -
2.23 Management of the Divestiture Program. In view of the fast-dwindling revenue base
of the Custodian Board in tandem with repossession and given the fact that the distinction
between citizen and noncitizen properties is now largely irrelevant to the repossession exercise,
the Government replaced the Verification Committee and the Executive Committee by a small
committee of four members. Prior to this change the annnual bill for the two committees ran as
high as U Sh 136 million, a cost which the Custodian Board could ill-afford. The Government
has taken other measures to control costs at the Custodian Board. It will continue to downsize
the Custodian Board to reflect the reduced level of activity.
C. Domestic Revenue Mobilization
2.24   Over the past few years the Government has taken a number of measures to bolster
revenue generation. It has tried to exploit most of the available tax bases to the maximum.
Thus, it has levied high rates of tax on the two products (beer and cigarettes) for which demand
is fairly inelastic and raised tariffs on petroleum products to a very high level. Super petrol is
taxed at 175 percent, diesel at 130 percent and kerosene at 90 percent. In view of the fact that
kerosene is an environmentally preferred substitute for fuelwood, no further increase in the rate
of tax on this product is contemplated. Attempts have also been made to broaden the tax base,
as illustrated by the enforcement of the commercial transactions levy and the Imposition of the
rental income tax. Furthermore, with assistance from the IMF, IDA and ODA, the Government
has devoted a great deal of effort to improving tax administration, culminating in the
establishment of the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) in 1991. In spite of these and other
actions the tax base remains narrow and tax administration is still in need of improvement. The
ratio of revenue to GDP increased from 5.8 percent in FY88 to only 7.2 percent in FY93. That
the tax base is very narrow is shown by the fact that almost 50 percent of total revenue comes
from just four products namely, petroleum, beer, cigarettes and soft drinks. The challenge is to
broaden the tax base significantly while continuing to improve tax administration and bringing
tax rates down in an effort to improve taxpayer compliance.
2.25  Broadening the Tax Base. The Government has continued its efforts to broaden the tax
base, as shown by the revenue measures introduced in FY94. The key measures that were passed
in FY94 are:
o     more effective taxation of rental income from real estate at a rate of 20
percent on 80 percent of gross rent in excess of U Sh 840,000 per
annum, regardless of the age of the property;
o     elimination of the customs duty exemption provided under the Investment
Code for construction materials;
*     reimposition of a minimum 10 percent customs tariff on raw materials;
*     imposition of a 10 percent customs duty on agricultural inputs, excluding
fertilizers, pesticides and seeds;
a     elimination of the tax-free status enjoyed by the army shop;



-26-
o     outright exclusion of certain goods (mineral waters, alcoholic beverages,
tobacco products, motor vehicles of a cylinder capacity of 2,000 c.c. and
above etc) from eligibility for exemptions except where
bilateral/multilateral agreements apply.
2.26 lRationalizing the Tax Structure. The FY94 budget session of parliament also saw a
number of measures aimed at rationalizing the tax structure and improving the yield of various
taxes adopted. With regard to income tax these were the key changes: the Government brought
all employment benefits and allowances into the tax net; increased the personal income tax
threshold from U Sh 600,000 to U Sh 840,000 per annum; lowered the top marginal rate from
40 percent to 30 percent on personal incomes above U Sh 4.2 million; reduced the number of
personal tax brackets from four to three; and reduced the rate of corporation tax from 35 to 30
percent. The sales tax on domestic goods as well as imports was simplified to four rates (0, 10,
20 and 30 percent) compared to the previous rate structure with a top rate of 100 percent. The
Government plans to move to a Value Added Tax (VAT) in the medium term. The customs
tariffs were rationalized by elimiating the two top rates of the present six-rate structure
comprising 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 percent. The Govemment hiked the excise tax rates from
50 to 80-100 percent on cigarettes and 80 percent on beer, and from 30 percent to 50 percent on
soft drinks. It also raised the maximum graduated tax (a local government tax) from U Sh
40,000 to U Sh 80,000 per annum.
2.27 Improving Tax Administration. With the establishment of the URA, the institutional
framework for much more effective tax administration is in place. The URA now has the full
complement of tenior managers; it pays salaries which are very generous by civil service
standards; and it is reasonably well supplied with motor vehicles and other equipment. Against
this background, the URA is inteDsifying its efforts to improve revenue collection. One of the
factors hampering these efforts has been lack of a proper valuation system for imports procured
with funds secured through the foreign exchange bureaus. With effect from August 1, 1993 the
Government extended preshipment inspection to all imports valued above US$2,500 compared
to US$5,000 previously. This should facilitate the valuation of imports for customs purposes and
bolster customs revenue collection.
2.28 The absence of a comprehensive taxpayer identification system has also impacted
adversely on revenue collection. URA needs such a database to be able to monitor systematically
and in a timely manner the status of each taxpayer's account; i.e. to determine whether or not
a return has been filed, an assessment made, tax due paid or is in arrears, penalties and interest
have been applied etc. Moreover, a comprehensive taxpayer database is needed to facilitate the
exchange of taxpayer information between one tax department and another. To address this
problem URA has initiated actions to create a comprehensive taxpayer database and develop and
install a system for assigning each taxpayer a permanent identification number. So far over
10,000 taxpayer identification numbers (TINs) have been generated and assigned to limited
liability companies. In addition, personal TINs have been created for all government employees.
The Government intends to complete the assignment of TINs to existing limited liability
companies and individual taxpayers by October 1994.



-27 -
2.29 Tax Policy Formulation. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning needs a strong
capacity to formulate tax policies. Such a capacity is needed to continue the process of
broadening the tax base, rationalizing the tax structure and making the tax system simpler, more
efficient, equitable and stable. The Government is reviewing the structure and staffing of the Tax
Policy Unit in MFEP with a view to strengthening it. The unit is expected to be restructured and
properly staffed by the end of FY94.
D. Public Expenditure Prioritization
2.30  In FY91 the Government began a process of expenditure prioritization, starting with the
recurrent budget. It identified primary education, primary health care, water supply, agricultural
research and extension, and road maintenance as high priority programs. The selected programs
were to receive substantial real increases in allocations in successive budgets. The allocations
in turn were to be protected from expenditure cuts when revenue collection fell short of the
approved estimate. In effect, the high priority programs were to benefit from automatic releases
of funds by the Treasury during the fiscal year.
2.31   The above approach to expenditure prioritization has had a measure of success. The
designated programs have benefitted from increased budget allocations and, except for the
difficulties experienced in the final quarter of FY92, allocations have been protected from cuts
and releases made automatically. As a result, the repetitive budgeting that flows from revenue
shortfalls is confined to programs that are not protected. This makes the task of budget
management easier.
2.32 Prioritizing Recurrent Expenditure. With effect from FY94 the Government expanded
the list of high priority recurrent expenditure programs to include the Police Service, Justice and
the Judiciary, the Office of the Auditor General and Office of the Inspector General of
Government. The Government's policy is to continue to channel more resources into the high
priority programs, particularly those which provide basic social services. Allocations for the high
priority recurrent programs would be made after taking care of the following items which have
first call on resources: wages, interest, amortization, domestic arrears, statutory expenditure,
funding for the URA and counterpart funds for the core development budget. Against all the
competing demands, the Government decided to channel about 60 percent (U Sh 11 billion) of
the net incremental resources towards boosting spending on the high priority programs in the
FY94 budget, to a total of U Sh 67.0 billion. In reflection of this, the share of the high priority
programs in total resources after satisfying the first-catl demands on the budget would increase
to 41 percent from 39 percent in the previous year. As a condition of second tranche release the
Government will release all the agreed recurrent budget allocations for the high priority programs
in FY94 and for FY95 agree with IDA on the level and composition of nonwage recurrent
expenditure.
2.33   Rationalizing the Development Budget. Just as with recurrent expenditure, the
Government has tended to spread its limited resources and implementation capacity thinly over
a large number of development projects, some of doubtfil economic value. The shortage of
counterpart funds to support donor projects and the slow implementation of projects strongly
suggest that the development budget has grown too big. The development budget is also too
large in relation to the recurrent budget. Also, insufficient consideration is being given to the



- 28 -
recurrent cost implications of new projects. Moreover, many projects do not fit into the
Government's highest expenditure priorities namely, provision of essential infrastructure and
more rapid development of human resources. Accordingly, the Government has decided that,
in a time of extreme scarcity of resources, it should concentrate on its core functions of:
a     providing basic social services (basic education, basic health and water
supply) with broad impact;
e     providing basic economic infrastructure (roads, with emphasis on feeder
roads, agricultural research, extension and disease control);
a     protecting the environment; and
o     mainting law and order.
2.34 In line with the above criteria, the development budget was divided into core and noncore
projects in FY94. The core projects, numbering 160, are to receive full conerpart funding.
The total FY94 allocation for government counterpart funds is U Sh 42.7 billion, of which U Sh
33.2 billion will be for the support of core projects. The balance of U Sh 9.5 billion will support
a large nunber of noncore projects, many of which will receive only minimal releases of
counterpart fiuds or none at all, and will therefore proceed at a slow pace or even come to a
saundstill. For this reason, it is necessary that, with effect from FY95, the Government work
closely with the donors to start the process of terminating projects which no longer fit into its
development priorities. As a condition of second tranche release the Government will release in
full the FY94 counterpart allocations for the core projects and for FY95 agree with IDA on the
level and composition of the development budget.
2.35   Salay Enha      t. Remuneration within the civil service continues to be characterized
by extremely low levels of basic pay combined with an inequitably distributed array of allowances
and nonmonetary benefits. Government has endorsed the recommendations of the Public Service
Review and Reorganization Commission (PSRRC) for improving the transparency and equity of
the remuneration structure and committed itself to a staged progression towards a level of total
emoluments that is commensurate with the qualifications, experience and responsibilities of
serving officers, subject to its own budget constraint. It recognizes that the introduction of a
significant real increase in the level of civil service emoluments is essential to the attraction,
retention and motivation of suitably qualified personnel. Accordingly, it has increased the wage
bill by 42 percent, from U Sh 62.5 billion in the previous year to U Sh 89 billion in FY94. This
in turn has meant that the share of wages and salaries in total noninterest recurrent expenditure
has gone up to 27 percent in FY94 compared to 25 percent last year and 22 percent in FY91.
Owing to the low levels of civil service pay, reductions in the workforce do not provide sufficient
budgetary savings to underwrite large increases in wages and salaries.
2.36 The bulk of the incremental resources available for civil service wages in FY94 (U Sh
20 billion out of U Sh 26.5 billion) were used to improve salaries in the teaching service. As
a result, the salary of the lowest tained teacher on the U7 scale has roughly doubled to U Sh
35,000 per month while that of his or her counterpart on U7 in the traditional civil service has
risen by only 19 percent. The Government gave the teachers preferential treatment becaume it



-29 -
is keen to bring about early Improvements in education. It was, however, necessary to delay the
payment of the new salaries (not just for teachers but for all civil servants) until October 1, 1993
in order to give the Ministry of Public Service time to remove overdue leavers and audit the
payroll of more schools and eliminate duplicate names and ghost teachers from the payroll.
Preliminary results show that the Government has succeeded in removing from the teaching
service payroll a large number of teachers, most of them ghost teachers. Thus the number of
teachers on the payroll shrank by 15,417 between June and September 1993; based on the new
U7 teacher's salary, this would translate into budgetary savings of U Sh 6.5 billion (which is
equivalent to US$6.21 million) in a full year. Agreement with IDA on the FY95 wage bill and
Its distribution will be a condition of second tranche release.
E. Civil Sevice Reform
2.37 The policy framework for civil service reform is derived from the analysis and
recommendations of the PSRRC which were presented to the Government in September 1990.
Government reviewed the report and responded through Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1992 which
defines the policy framework for civil service reform. The primary objective of civil service
reform is to strengthen Government's capacity to deliver services to the people. That means that
reform measures must foster the development of service delivery systems that are cost-effective
and affordable within the resource constraints facing Government. The key issues in civil service
reform are rationalization and downsizing of the service; reform of remuneration policy and
payroll administration; restructuring of ministries and decentralization of governmental functions;
and development and introduction of improved personnel management systems.
2.38 Rationalizing and Downsizing the Civil Service. The total number of ministries and
self-accounting departments and offices was re-luced through consolidation from 34 to 21. From
FY89 a number of actions have been taken to reduce the numbers of civil servants. These actions
include: the elimination of about 40,000 ghost workers from the civil service payroll following
the reintroduction of a computerized payroll for the traditional civil service based on verified staff
lists; a reduction of the number of group (or temporary) employees from 110,000 to 44,000; and
retrenchment of 6,339 established civil servants in June 1992, followed by the layoff of another
7,469 civil servants in July 1993. All the retrenchees have been paid their severance package
which was more attractive than current pension benefits. A selective hiring freeze has been in
effect for a number of years. However, the freeze has not been entirely effective in controlling
staffing levels as new hiring appears to have offset some of the retrenchment that has occurred.
2.39   Over the past year the Government has achieved a furither substantial reduction in the size
of the civil service. This was done largely through cleaning up the teachers payroll and sharply
reducing the number of group or "temporary' employees. introducing a voluntary redundancy
scheme. The number of teachers was reduced from 115,912 in June to 100,495 in September
1993. In the same period the number of group employees was cut by nearly 16,000. The
Government's intention is to absorb up to 13,000 of the remaining group employees into the
traditional civil service and abolish this category of staff altogether. The Government has already
introduced a voluntary redundancy scheme which is expected to lead to the separation of another
10,000 or more civil servants. The scheme includes safeguards against Government losing most
of its skilled manpower. Trimming the Government workforce is a necessary step towards
rationalizing the payroll and setting the stage for payment of a living wage. However, this effort



- 30 -
has to be complemented by measures to address the payroll management problem. In this regard,
the Government must accelerate the development and installation of establishment, staffing and
payroll control systems that offer protection against corruption of databases. In this way MPS
would be in a position to ensure that civil servants who have been laid off are no longer on the
payroll and ghost workers do not reemerge.
2.40   Monetization of Benefits. The purpose of monetization is to make fully transparent the
present composition anid value of the remuneration package as a first step towards reform of the
overall structure of pay and emoluments. Monetization of benefits will contribute to efficiency
by reducing the overhead costs associated with the procurement, allocation, repair and
maintenance of houses and vehicles. It will also make the remuneration structure more
transparent. Monetization of benefits is not to be confused with salary enhancement; it is just
the cash commutation of an existing benefit as defined in the Unified Terms and Conditions of
Service of the Uganda Public Service. These state, for exanple, that a civil servant will receive
a housing allowance equivalent to 40 percent of basic salary. The cash value of this allowance
falls far short of what is needed to meet housing costs under current market conditions but the
inadequacy of the allowance derives from the low level of basic salaries. As part of the process
of monetization of benefits, all cash allowances should be consolidated into a single salary that
comprises the total remuneration of a civil servant. The existing overall salary structure for the
civil service is characterized by excessive compression, particularly in the middle ranges of the
professional and management cadres, and by extensive anomalies within and across ministries and
services. Reform of the existing salary structure should follow the monetization of benefits.
2.41   The Government has decided to divest itself of pool houses allocated mainly to senior
civil servants (but not institutional housing units allocated mainly to staff of the police, prisons,
teaching and health services). Civil servants occupying pool houses are to be given the option
of first refusal to buy the houses. The Government has also decided to abolish the transport
benefit which involves: (i) transfer, under the co-ownership scheme, of a government vehicle to
senior civil servants at a fraction (10 percent) of the cost, together with a fuel allowance of up
to U Sh 500,000 per month; (ii) allocation of official vehicles for personal use; and (iii) allocation
of pool vehicles to transport staff to and from work. In January 1994 the Government terminated
the vehicle co-ownership scheme. The Government has also prepared and agreed with IDA an
implementation plan for the divestiture of the pool houses, and "personal use" and pool vehicles.
The monetization of the housing benefit (except for those accommodated in institutional housing),
if done in accordance with the existing terms and conditions of service, would mean that the basic
pay of eligible civil servants would be increased by 40 percent. Continued progress towards the
replacement of the housing and transport benefits with cash payments and satisfactory progress
towards the disposal of pool houses, personal vehicles and pool vehicles (except for a limited
number of office-holders who are entitled to government housing and transport) will be j
condition of second tranche release. The pace of monetization of the housing and transport
benefits will be determined by the incremental resources that are available for wages and salaries.
In applying the additional resources that will be available for wages in FY95, the Government
will give priority to the monetization of benefits. Since the salary structure that will emerge from
the monetization exercise will look unduly compressed the Government will have to move quicldy
to decompress this structure in order not to penalize those in the skilled and professional
categories.



- 31 -
2.42   Mnisterial Restructuring and Decentralization. A key aspect of civil service reform
is ministerial restructuring. Assessments of the functions and staffing of ten ministries have been
completed and the Government endorsed proposals for restructuring five of these ministries.
However, on closer examination, it became apparent that the functions and total establishment
recommended for the first ten ministries for which reviews had been completed do not adequately
reflect the liberalized economic environment and the severe resource constraints facing the
Government. In view of this the Government decided to carry out additional assessments, taking
into account decentralization initiatives underway, with a view to cutting out noncore functions
and activities and revising the staffing rationalization plans for the following ministries for which
reviews had been completed: Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries; Trade and Industry;
Works, Transport and Communications; Natural Resources. (he terms of reference for the
remaining seven ministries/offices were amended to include a more rigorous examination of the
functions and activities and preparation of an implementation plan). The Government then
decided on the noncore functions and activities from which the Ministries of Agriculture, Trade,
Works and Natural Resources will disengage as well as on staffing levels commensurate with the
redefined role of these ministries. Elimination of the noncore functions and implementation of
the first-stage (i.e prior-to-decentralization) staffing rationalization plans for the ministries of
Agriculture, Trade, Works and Natural Resources as agreed with IDA will be a nditiono
second tranche release.
2.43 The Government has initiated decentralization of administrative authorities and
responsibilities to the district level. Conceptually, the central headquarters functions will be
reduced to policy formulation, planning, inspection and the management of national programs.
The framework for implementing the decentralization policy is outlined in the restructuring
assessments of the ministries but more detail, together with a fuller costing, is needed before the
budgetary impact of this policy can be assessed realistically. What is certain is that
decentralization will be costly in terms of developing the physical infrastructure at the district
level and, for some functions, in terms of staffing requirements. As the practical details of
decentralization are worked out there will be a need to reassess the core functions and activities
of the central ministries vis-a-vis the districts. Implementation of the decentralization policy has
started on a pilot basis in PY94, with thirteen districts allotted separate budget votes covering
recurrent expenditure.
2.44  Improved Personnel Management and Establishment Control. The development and
introduction of improved systems for personnel and payroll management are essential elements
of the reform program. Efforts to develop a computerized personnel and payroll database were
initiated in FY89. The principal operational legacy of these earlier efforts is the computerized
payroll system for the traditional civil service, the police service and the prisons service. The
Establishment and Staff Control System (ESCS), developed in MPS for the teaching service and
made operational in February 1993, represents a more comprehensive attempt to develop an
integrated personnel and payroll records system. The system is being used to establish control
over the teaching service payroll, by among other things, identifying and removing ghost teachers
from the payroll. The extension of ESCS to the traditional civil service is in progress, and,
reinforced by audit and verification procedures now being installed, will establish MPS control
over staffing levels and payroll changes in the various services. Another problem facing the civil
service is the breakdown of the system of staff performance evaluation. This is an issue that
needs to be addressed.



- 32 -
Part I. Ihe Proposed Credit
A. Credit Amount and Expected Cofinandng
3.1   The borrower is the Republic of Uganda. The borrower's program of reforms to be
supported by the credit are set out in the Letter of Development Policy (LODP) in Annex I. The
IDA credit amount is SDR 57.8 million (US$ 80 million equivalent). Ihe credit would start to
disburse in FY94 but it will meet the bulk of Uganda's import finncing gap for FY95.
Additional Import financing for the program to be supported by the proposed credit is expected
from the EEC, African Development Fund, ODA (UK), the Netherlands, Japan and USAID.
The proposed credit amount compares with US$125 million for SAC I and US$100 million for
PSAC, representing a continuing decline in quick-disbursing commitments by IDA.
B. Tranching
3.2   The proposed credit will be disbursed in two tranches of approximately equal amounts.
The first tranche will be available upon credit effectiveness. The second tranche would become
available about nine months later, subject to satisfactory Implementation of the adjustment
program and fulfillment of the specific conditions for second tranche release. The program
supported by the credit is expected to be completed by June 1995 and the credit will close by
December 1995.
C. Disbursement
3.3   The proceeds of the credit will be used to finance general imports, subject to a negative
list, and will be disbursed on a reimbursement rather than a replenishment basis. Expenditures
for goods procured under conuuct costing less than US$2,500 or its equivalent will not financed
under the credit. Procurement of goods costing less than US$500,000 or its equivalent may be
done on the basis of statements of expenditure. The Government has put in place a system which
generates the documentation required for reimbursement of prior foreign exchange expenditures
financed through the commercial banks and the bureaus. The documentation to be submitted to
IDA to justify expenditures out of the proceeds of the credit includes Form E, the customs biUl
of entry and the final invoice, and where post-payment is involved, evidence of payment. The
new disbursement procedures were introduced in the context of the unified interbank foreign
exchange market which became operational on November 1, 1993. A number of reforms have
accompanied the introduction of the interbank market. These include: the delegation of more
powers to authorized foreign exchange dealers; the application of a uniform set of regulations to
the commercial banks and the bureaus; and the transfer of transactions relating to oil imports and
coffee exports from the Bank of Uganda to the interbank market. With the implementation of
the interbank market the Bank of Uganda ceased to auction donor import support funds.
D. Procurement
3.4   The credit will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (c.i.f. Kampala) of
general imports, except those on the negative list. Imports procured under contracts of less than
US$2,500 will not be financed under the credit. Procurement will follow standard Bank
Guidelines. Simplified international competitive bidding will apply to individual import
tansactions worth US$2 million or more. Procurement below the ICB threshold by the private
sector and parastatals using import support funds conforms with internaionally accepted



- 33 -
commercial practice. Government procurement is subject to Tender Board procedures based on
competitive bidding which are acceptable to IDA. Procedures exist for ex post review of
procurement documentation below and above the ICB threshold. Government continues to use
the services of an import inspection firm.
3.5   Financing of petroleum products will be limited to SDR14.5 million. Up to the end of
October 1993 the Bank of Uganda allocated foreign exchange administratively at the auction rate
to each of the six oil companies operating in Uganda for the procurement of petroleum products.
Prom November 1, 1993 individual oil companies have obtained their foreign exchange
requirements from the interbank market. The Government has decided in principle to move to
ICB for the procurement of petroleum products and is now examining the practicality of such a
step.
E. Management, Monitoring and Accounts
3.6   Ihe Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning will have overall responsibility for the
management of the program. The Government has established a Coordinating Group made up
of key staff from the ministries and agencies which will actually carry out the various proposed
actions to be supported by the credit. This group has worked closely with IDA staff in the
preparation of the credit and will provide the focal point for the implementation of the program.
The resident mission will play an important role in program supervision. The Government's
capacity to ma=inn adequate records and accounts in respect of quick-disbursing credits has
shown some improvement. It is therefore in a better position to comply with the standard
covenants relating to accounts and audit reports.
F. Conditionality
3.7   Prior to submission of the proposed Credit to the Board, the Government has, inter alia:
(a)   abolished LMB's monopoly over cotton exports;
(b)   abolished the cooperative union's monopoly over cotton ginning;
(c)   agreed on the modalities for restructuring the cotton industry, including
transferring a large part of the industry to private ownership;
(d)   eliminatd licensing of coffee exporters and provided for registration only;
(e)   restructured the Uganda Coffee Development Authority to increase industry
participation;
(f)   revised the floor pricing formula for coffee exports to introduce greater flexibility
for exporters, removed the restriction on method-of-sale for coffee and eliminated
the requirement that coffee be transported to port by rail only;
(g)   removed the controls on pump prices of petroleum products;
(h)   returned all remaining properties with valid repossession claims to their owners
and agreed on procedures for the sale of unclaimed non-citizen properties;



I               - 34 -
(i)   terminated the vehicle co-ownership scheme and agreed with IDA on a plan to
divest 'personal use' and pool vehicles; and
(j)    agreed with IDA on a plan to divest Government "pool" houses.
During the implementation of the program to be supported by SAC II the Government of Uganda
will pursue appropriate economic and financial policies in the context of an IMF-supported
program. In addition to keeping the macroeconomic program on track, the Government will
implement a number of actions as conditions of credit effectiveness and second tranche release
of the credit.
3.8    Before the Credit becomes effective the Government will:
(a)    Gazette regulations covering registration of coffee exporters and quality
control of coffee exports.
(b)    Sign a contract with the consultant selected to carry out the UIA study
to review the Investment Code and the operations of the UIA.
3.9 Before second tranche release the Government will implement these actions:
(a)    Abolish the floor price mechanism for coffee exports.
(b)    Cause all necessary measures to be taken to facilitate the transfer, by
way of sale, lease, management or the restructuring, of ginneries with
installed capacity of at least 100,000 bales to creditworthy and viable
operators.
(c)    Review, in consultation with IDA, the recommendations of the study
relating to the Investment Code and the operations of the Uganda
Investment Authority.
(d)    Take all necessary measures to offer for sale (taking into account market
conditions) all properties covered by the 1982 Expropriated Properties
Act not claimed by their owners or for which compensation claims are
pending.
(e)    Release all the agreed FY94 budget allocations for the high priority
recurrent programs and for the core projects; and for FY95 agree with
IDA on the level and composition of the wage bill, nonwage recurrent
expenditure and development expenditure.
(f)    Continue to make progress in replacing transport and housing benefits
with cash payments and make satisfactory progress towards the disposal
of the pool houses and personal-use and pool vehicles for civil servants
other than Judges, Ministers, Deputy Ministers and those entitled to
institutional houses; and eliminate the noncore functions and implement
the first-stage staffing rationalization plans for the ministries of
Agrculture, Trade, Worls and Natural Resources.



- 35 -
Part IV. Benefits and Risks
A. Benefits
4.1    After a number of years of somewhat uneven progress, Uganda has only very recently
become a very strong reforming country. It has achieved macroeconomic stabiliq bait needs to
sustain it. It has implemented important structural reforms needed, principally, to spur growth
and develop human resources. The credit will support a program designed to deepen the reforms
through regulatory and institutional measures. It will contribute towards maintenance of
macroeconomic stability by generating local currency counterpart funds for the government
budget. Until the Government's efforts to improve revenue generation start to show significant
results, these funds will be crucial to progress towards budgetary balance. By providing import
financing while Uganda's own foreign exchange earnings remain depressed, the credit will
promote growth.
4.2    The specific actions to be supported by the credit will benefit Uganda in a number of
ways. Improvements in the regulatory and business climate are intended to help unleash the fill
potential of the private sector as the engine of growth. The final phase of divestiture of the
Custodian Board properties is expected to spark increased rehabilitation investment and reinforce
Uganda's pro-business image. Civil service reform is aimed at building a competent, results-
oriented service without which the present ineffectiveness of government programs will persist.
Sharp increases in domestic revenue are needed to underwrite not only civil service reform
(salaries in particular) but also much higher levels of expenditure in the social and economic
sectors, especially health, education and roads. Public expenditure rationalization will lead to
more productive use of the Government's own limited resources and the resources provided by
donors.
B. Poverty Category of the Proposed Opertion
4.3    The proposed operation has a strong poverty focus. First, on the production side, the
credit will support actions to revitalize the coffee and cotton subsectors. These two crops have
traditionally been important sources of cash income for smallholder farmers. The restoration of
favorable conditions for the expansion of cotton output will be especially beneficial to the
peasants in the north and east, regions which have lagged behind the rest of the country because
of the late cessation of rebel activities. Second, the credit aims to bring about improvements in
the social indicators by reforming public expenditure and shifting resources into programs
(primary education, primary health, feeder roads etc) that benefit the poor.
C. Risks
4.4   There are both external and internal risks to the program to be supported by the credit.
On the external front the risk lies mainly in the possibility of a fiuther deterioration of the world
economic situation and a worsening of relations between Uganda and her neighbors. Coffee
prices on the world market have picked up, partly in reflection of the decision by producing
countries to operate a stock retention scheme, but the risk of a furher slide in prices cannot be
ruled out. The best way Uganda can protect itself against such an eventuality is to promote
noncoffee exports vigorously. Uganda has no control over international developments but it has
demonstrated a readiness to respond to external shocks. The political and military turmoil in



-36 -
some of the neighboring countries could spill over into Uganda and create pressures for increased
defense spending. To forestall this risk Uganda is very active in promoting peace In the
subregion. On the domestic front, the main risks are a return to fiscal laxity in the run-up to
presidental and parliamentary elections in 1994 and a weakening of resolve in implementing
structural reforms, especially those involving retrenchment and revenue generation. There will,
no doubt, be strong pressures to increase government expenditure in the period leading up to the
elections. That i the negative side. On the positive side, there is a much greater commitment
to fiscal prudence, and the central bank has become more vigilant in managing the Government's
accounts. Moreover, the merger of finance and planning has resulted in a more cohesive budget
mangement stucture. To reduce the risk of lost momentum on structural reform SAC II has
supported many up-front actions.
Part V. Recmmendation
5.1    1 am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Atachments
Washigton D.C.
April 18, 1994



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 17
Tesbom   _ e                           \} Mof                                     a
C     o'   1D                                       ECOnOI Plmi
r-See470~S (10 Liurn)                                P.O. Sx 8147.
Tdepwis   WinO.                                ~~Kamp"la
tna~ mz   . h I W   116 tA         U rLanda.
April IZ,.1994.
Le(e of Deelopmet Pwolcy
Mr. Lewis T. Presron
Prident
Inenaional Development Association
lI8s H Seteet NW
Wasblngron, DC 20433
USA
Denr Mr. Poeston,
1.    As you know, the Govrnmen of the Nationul Resistance Moumn lauched in May 1987
an economic rcovery program aimed at recomuemng our economy which had been devated by
poldcal and miliaryupheaval. ae Govem of Ugandapratthe sptprovridedbylDA
In the form of two Economic Recovey Craeds (ERC I and ERC   ). an Agricurl  SeoMr
Adjustmet Credit (ASAC), a Strcmral AdJustmea Creft (SAC 1), a Fnanal Sector Adj'usmen
Credk   SAC) and severa investment credi. Our economic recovey prgm bas also amacud
substata resource flows from the DI4F and other multilal and bilata donos. Iu November
1992 we negotated the sixth PolUcyF ramework Paper (PM) coveing FY93-PY95 wh MDA and tW
DO. On Novembe 22, 1993 the IMF exended the fouth amwaal             under the ESAF to
'ime 30, 1994.
2.    In the long run we expect an increasing perenta  of our foreign exchmp   i 
be met from our own export earnings. However, we wn. In the medium tetm,  coinue to rdy oD
fripn assist  to a significan ette    Accordingy, by dhs la1tr the Govemen    of Uganda
reques   frther assmnce from IDA iii suppott of the an   phase of its stuctural adjusnme
program. The objectives of the program, Its  a sco m  o-da a  the actio  plannd for te
nt two or dhree yeas, which will be suppoted by-the Second SruC  Ad*tmem Credit (SAC
m are dc ed below.
Objecdves of Eonomic Reform
3.    Overte past six fiscai years our economy grew, o0 avage, by 5.7 pecn a yraw, whic
men ta pe capita income rosve by 2.8 percem per annum. This has, hower made only a small
den in povey: at US$170, avage per capta income remains very low. even by developilg
comtny sdards. Our oveidi   onomic goal. theefore  nains the reducdon of povey at a
fasoer pac. To this end weill seek to consolida  macroeconmic sabiity, ster pivat seor
development and improve public socor         W_r We  conv.rced hat good    3    i an
estal gediof dewopmem  In etection of this e Govenmehas mrd *eedomof th



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 17
- 38 -
press and independence of th judiciay.  We have an eleaed Parliamen   A draft nationlW
Constition is due to be debated and adopted by a Constituent Assembly in 1994. This will be
followed by parlilmenty and presidential elecdons.
Recnt Economic Adjustment Efforts and the Resuls
4.    Over the pa%t eigbteen months we have accelerated the pace of maoconomic and strunral
reform. As a result one key objective of economic policy has ftnally been ahievedi: btladon has
been brought zmder control. Year-on-year inflatiOn, Measured by chnges in the consm  prc
index for Kaupa1aO has dropped sharply. In June 1992 it was 63 percent. A year lIter It was minus
0.5 percent In March 1994 it edged up to 12.5 percen  We reckon that undedying inflaion is Of
*h order of 9.2 percent per annum. 'he sharp drop In oflaton Is partly explained by good weather
which resulted in bumper harvests which In turn ransated Io falling food prices. The main reason,
however, is the tdgening of control over public axpendimre. This has meant limt   peding eau
month to the dometic revenue collected and the local currency generated fron  sales of Import
supr finds. The success against ilation has brought greater exchange rae smbilty. Morcver,
high rea interest tatu, couplb w tabl hgerare, seem to have aaCW large inw of
privt funds into Ugnda.
S.    While rening in inflation, we have pressed ahead with structural rdorms. Suffice It to
menton omly four of the notable actions that: we have aken recendy. Flrsty, we have retund over
2,5w  of the propeies oxpropriated by Amin in thfe ealy 1970s to fte owners. We are beginn
to see major rehabiliion Invesments in a number of the properts repossased by the ovne, wih
a resultan expansion of employment and income opportunities.
6.    Secondly, we have conffnued die process of prioring public expenditur. he des ted
hIgh priorm   recurrent programs (primary education, primary heblth, wat supply, agicultmal
search and etesion and road mainenance) received increased budgetary alocatons   FY9 and
wer protected fom expendime cuts necessid by the shortfl in the local cmrency genated
*om Import support fis.
7.    Thirdly, we have completd faciWial reviews often miniss. Retruuig  proposals for
these minist e   being reviewed wkh a view to enuing dt  Govermet miniie" amd
depatmesu  focus on their core functions. Over the past e _he months we laid Off about 40,000
cii seaants; mny of these were ghost workers. In addilon, during FY93 we compled the Mu
phase of miittay demobiltadon which resulted in tMe s_reoTZ3,UUU so_otus kom the aTSonal
Resisancc Army. This will ald our efforts to further reduce defense expeture wbIch had alreadyr
gone down frm 41 percent of reurrent expenditue in FY91 to 25 percent in FY93.
8.    Fourhly, we have liberalized makes. Thus, we abolished the xpo moopolY enjoyYd by
theCofeMarkeiag Board. Wehavealso deld theforeignehagemad                  Weinoduced
u kinubak tbreign exagema rket in November 1993. We now have pracdally no otols on
curt account osaIons. We have also made progress towards liberalizing ints rar; rats
as ether marktrdevxilned or linked t a moving average yield on treaSUY bills whi  arm
aucdoned weekdy.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 17
-39 -
9.    We believe that the benefits of stabiliadon cam stuctural adjustment bgS   to show.
We see signS of an upswing in private sectr confidence and in inves t  The econowmy ha
rebounded from the drought-induced recession of FY92: povisional data suggest tiu GDP grew by
7.2 percent in FY93. Purditimore, from a very low base, nonoffee xport show sigs of
expandig songly, although statistics tend to under-record this cagory of exports.
The Medium Term Program of Adjustment Meawres
10.   Over thLe pasn six years we have adopted a wide range of structural polcies ta havo reted
in the creaion of free markers and some improvemet in public sector zanagemet In spite of *Js
progress, m;jor challenges remain. This means ha we must address th nex geneaon ofstructal
csmainu vigorously in order to susmln the recovy of output gmwth ad acceleate human
resource development. We see dure main areas as reqiring priority atention over the coming 2-3
years. First and foremost, we recognze that the prvae ivestment rae (around 6 percent of GDP),
while rising, is too low to provide a sound basis for faste  econamic gow. Invnesmen Is
constained by low domesic saving but in some areas it is also hampered by lega and regultory
barriers. Under the program for which we are seek 3 DA support we intend to do away wh theme
legal and reultry bariers. We know tha pivate insment wil also be stimulated by acdons to
complete the divesdwe of the Custodian Board properdes and speed up the privataion of public
enterprises and we intend to Implement the required acdons as expidouly as posible
11.   Second, we are awae that domestic savings remain inadeqtate compared to the performsanc
of most African counties- Tis constrains domesc investme  whlch has to be oe engine of
g3owth. On the one hand, private savings are very low. On the o*er had, public sVIgP aX
negaive. The prae savings/GDP ratio is of th order of 6-7 pece    Low priva svig   alWct
in part a lack of confidence In the financial system, coupled with the low m dio of the
economy. In recogaition of this we will accelerat  e impl on of the program supporaed by
the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit which alms at s h   the finan    sector. We wi
also step tp our efforts to improve domestic revenum generation.
12.   Third, we know that ecouomic growth is being held back by   dequacies In the public SCr
provision of essential economic and social n cr. and devdopmeat of humn resources We
are addressing this consraint thmrugh fimter reorm of *e public serice and a more rigorou
priotftlation of both recurrent expediture and development exndlwdo
13.   The rest of this letter elaborates upon the geneal tenor of th structurl reform measum  as
well as he specific actions thar w plan to implement under te pwram o be suppored by the
proposed Seond Stuural Adjument Credit.
M acroeconomic Sthization
14.   We il adopt policies which wm assist us to consolidae the mac    e stabiy that
is emerging. Thu means that we wil strive to keep Ihation low and stable. Our aim is m to anow
avage Intox to exceed 7.5 percem In FY94 an 5 peren in the followIqg yW. At the same
time we wil aim to achieve a real GDP gowth re of at lent 5 percen.     main irediea  In
our trate  for maintaining maooic abily am reducing he ovea fil dck   a mos
sustainable lewel; steadily improvng our external paymeans posion; keepirg monGW7 eqNsion
coisisten with noninflatiouary growth of GDP; and m iag a competii  eange rtO. Our
emnomic A financial polities for FY94 are being monitred by the IP pin8 the ePPropria



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 17
peformance crteria and souctural benchmarks in the context of the extended fourth annual
arrangement under the ESAF.  We will bave an economic and financial program with the IMF
coverin FY95.
Private Sostor Development
15.   We have come a long way in improving the incentive framework for production and
removing regulatory barriers to trade and Investment. This is shown by the fact that we eliminated
Import and export licensing; did away with import prohibitions, except for a handful of items; created
a very liberal exchange and payment sysem  abolisbed all price contmls; eliminted domestc
marketing and export monopolies; introduced a now Investment Code and set up the Ugad
Invetment Authority; and repealed the Industrial Licensing Act. We will continue remove any legal
and regulatory barrirs to trade and Investment that remain.
16.   Dereulating the Coffee Subsector Further. Over the past three years we have opened up
the coffee indust to competition. with beneficial effecs on the economy. For one thing, the
availability of crop finance has ceased to be a problemr  Moreover, because of compeiion, firuers
are treiving not only higher prices (in spite of depressed world prices) but also prompt payment.
In order to reinforce this positive tred we are taking addltonal measures.
17.   Since the beginning of January 1994 we have taken the following actions. Licensing of coffe
exporters baa bee replaced with a system of rgistratio, and we undertake tO promplte regulations
under the amended 1991 UCDA Statute to cover registion procedures. As an nerim mease
prior to ablition, we have reviewed, in consultation with the privae exportes. the price formula
used to calculate'the export floor price, made the price formula public and sare announcing th
export floor price before 10-00 a.m. ach day. To give exponers some flexibility, the announced
floor price Is being kept up to 3 US cent per pound below the price yielded b:- the f*mula. It is
expected that during times of fatling prices. or backwardaton in the coffee futures mke, the
flexibility margins will be set near or at 3 US cents per pound, but not less ta  1 US cet per
pound. which is the flxibUity in pratice currenty granted by the UCDA. We have emoved the
restriction on the method of export sale of coffee so that exporters are now free to sell by tender or
any other method, and we have lifted the restriction on the mode of  port of coff  to t  sea
por.  We also amended the UCDA Stue to make the UCDA Board of Dir   m
rprsentative of the coftee industy. As to te UCDA's rol inq ualit ontrol. wo rcoi    at
the UCDA will contmiue to have overall supervisory responsibility while export processing plants wl
have diret responsibility for quality control. To this end, we will promulgate regulations under te
amended 1991 UCDA Stat  instiuting procedures for qualit assurance. We wll abolish th floor
price mechanism for cofle expot before March 1, 1993. We also plan to restmuture the operadons
of CMBL.
18.   Revitalizing the Cotton Subsecor. In the 1960s and oarly 1970s wWaeived up to 25 percent
of our export eanings from cotton. Owing to the politcal, milary and economic turmil that
engulfed the country between 1972 and 1986 the cotton industry sufferd a sharp dacline. Tha seed
multiplicatlon system collapsed, the seed cotton and plantig seed for the two varieties. SATU and
BPA, becam  mixed, with the result tha soum of the charaberistics that earnd Ugndan linr a
premium on the interational market wer ios. Morever, the population of the work oxen neded
for land preparaion in the SATU-grwing areas of the northest w  decimated by the civil wars and
catle raiding. Furthermore. by the late 1960s coton gining had become the monopoly of the
cooperative unions while the Lint Marketing Board (LMO) was granted a complete monopoly of the



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 17
- 41 -
cotton lInt and catton seed trade. For a variety of reasons management standards In the cooperative
unions and LMB deteriorated drastically. At present all but four or five of the eighteen cooperative
unions are insolvent or nearly so. A prime cause of their msolvency is the heavy burden of debt that
they owe to the Cooperative Bank, the Uganda Commercial Bank and LMB. The bulk of the debt
was incurred for the purpose of rehabilitating the gineries but in most instances the work was never
completed. LM8 is also indebted to foreign buyers of cotton for failing to honor supply contracts.
the management and financial difficulties of the unions and LMB led to a complete erosion of two
of the key factors responsible for the rapid expansion of cotton ourput namely. ease of marketing the
cop at the villag tevel and the reliability and prompmes of payme nt.
19.   Our aim is to improve the policy and instutiona frmework relating to cotton production,
ginning awd marketing. To this end parliament enacted i January 1994 the Cotton Development Act
which, among other thWngs, abolished the LMBs monopoly over cotton exports and the unions'
moopoly over ginning. We are also taking steps to create the right conditions for th8 emergence
of ginneies which are under competent management and are controlled by creditworthy opertors.
We will, if requested, provide a union with technical asssance in pearing a business plan designed
to rstore financial viability within the medium term. Based on an acceptable business plan, the
Goveruzuem would agree to substantially write down the union's outanding debt, subject w the
union meeting certain benchmarks. The union's part of the bargain is tht it must enter into a'
agremet with private entrepreneur involving the lease, sale or joint veture operation of its
slawy, and, based on Its business plan, seure credit as needsc frm a commeil bank. The debt
reief program is ential to reviving cotton production as the Insolvency of the majority of ginneies
rqrants a majot6'bottneck in the cotton production and marketing chain. By writing dovwi the
loans the Government will give the unions or potential new ownes of tie ginneries a chance to
cm   re viability. We havs notified the unions and the creditor banks of the proposed arrangements
for debt relief and ginnery rmructuring. The uniolhs Interesed In participating In the scheme and
the banks have signified their acceptwce of these arrangements. In the meantime we have taken
stock of the debt owed by each union and agree on the modalities for debt relif with the unionz and
the creditor banks. Based on thde arrangements, the Government wilt, before March 1, 1995. take
all neceay measures to facilitate the transfer of ginneries with capacity of a least 100,WO bites
to creditwothy and viable operators through sale, leas: or manugomgetn contracts.
20.   The fbllowing are the mesures that the Govanment will take to facilitate the transfer of at
least 100,000 bales of -inning capacity to creditworthy operators:
(a)    engag auditors (financed under the proposel Cotton 5tbsector Devalopment Project)
to determine the book value and fair value of the unions' debts to UCB, Coop Bank
and LMB, the fair value in respect of the debt to UC8 and the Cooperative Bank
being the value, on a going concern basis, of the gintales secured against such deb;
(b)   the auditors will make recommendations to the AgriCultural Policy Committee (APC)
regarding the extent of debt relief to be offerd (the relief being the difference
between tbe book value and the fair value), and the terms and conditions of debt
relief, including terms of repayment of the written down debt;
tc)    APC will recommend for the Finance Minister's approvl In principle the extent of
debt writedown for each union;



ANNEX I
-42-                       Page 6 of 17
(d)   the Minister wUl, where ncssary, seek the authorisatTon of the National Resistance
Council (NRC) for the debt relief to be offered to each union, including the related
terms and conditions for such debt reliet
(e)    upon NRC's authorisation, the Minister shall, in the first instance, make the offer of
debt relief to the union conditions upon the unions' securing the required credit
faciities from flnancial isttatutfons, if needed
(t)   each union will prepare a business plan for restucturing the manaement and
opertaon of its ginnery. with assistance. If requested, from the Business Advisory
Services (finance  under the propod Cotton Project);
(g)    unions which require credit fcilities will submit their business plans to lending
Institutions; once the credit facility has been approved, a union wll submlt a formal
request for debt relief to APC. A union which does not require credit faclities wil1
submit a fomal request for debt relief, together with a business plan, direaly to
APC;
Qh)    APC will recommend to the Minister the granting of the debt reie to the unions
which have provided satisfactory evidence confirming compliance with the terms and
conditions under which the debt rlief was oflrerod. For unions which do not require
credit facilities, APC will review fbrmal request for debt relief based on satisfactory
business plans submitted by unions. and recommend to the Ministe the granting of
debt relief to those unions;
(i)    based on APCs recommendation, the Mnist  will grant the debt relief to tX
relevant unions, with dhe provision thh the union catry out the businesslretruering
plan which is the basis of the debt relief.
(0   fthe Ministes approval of the debt relief in respect of a ginnery will signify the
completion of aclions needed to fcilitae fte transfer of a ginnery int the hands of
creditworthy and viable opaors, or the restructuring of the operations of tat
glunery;
(k)    where a union faUs tO seek debt relief within Z80 days fom the date of informing the
unions of the arrugemena foc debt reisf the  iuister of Finace as original ledWer
will request the creditor bank as subsidiary lenders and LB to demand full
repayment of outanding loans by September 30. 1994. and t torwClose on defawting
unions by 31 December, 1994; foreclosure will signify coimpledon of the actons
needed to facUitate the tasfer of a ginney into the hands of creditworthy and viable
operators;                                        t
(O)    in the event that any union will fail w caU  out the business plan, including, when
requited, entering into agreenent with commerciul baks and accesing cred
facilities, we will withdraw the debt relief previously granted to That union.
21.   Reeng .a Investment Code. The Invemeat Code, 1991, was brought into effect on
January 25, 1991 after having gone through a fairly long period of gesion during the latr part of



ANNEX I
- 43 -                     Page 7 of 17
the 19Ws when the economic policy environment was still very restrictive. We now have a very
liberal economy and we plan to review the Code and the operations of the Uganda Investmen
Authority. We bavs agreed with IDA the terms of reference for a study which will review the
Investmen Code and the operations of the UlA. We are currely in the process of selecting a
consultant to carry out the study. The Government will, before Match 1, 1995, consider, in
consultation wit IDA, the recommendations arising from the study.
22.   Freeing of Petoleum Product Prics. Given the very liberal economic euvironment that
prevails in Uganda. there was no louger any justfficadon for continued coutrol of the prices of
petroleum products. The Government therefore abolished price contols on petroleum products at
the beginning of January 1994. There are currently six petroleum companies operatig in Uganda.
We expet them to compete.
23.   Divestiture of the Remaining Custodian Board Properti  In 1991 we launched a major
effort to rexanm the properties t the owers. So far we bave retmed over 2,50 properties to the
former owners. The return of the expropriated properies to the owners is proof of our commitmet
to upholding private property rights and attracting foreign investment. We have now embarked upon
the final phase of divestinzre of the Custodian Board properties. This phase will Involve a
combiation of repossession. sale, compensation and revession of the propertes to the landlords. At
the end of April 1993 we issued a riotice to all cla; ts, including those who bad applied for
compesation, inviting them to repossess their propeties. Ibc notice gave the former ownrs up to
October 30, 1993 to repossess their properties. We have sinc returned all the remaining propertie
(both ctizen and noncitizen properties) with valid repossession cdaims to the owners.
24.   The properties that now remain unclaimed will be disposed of in accordance with the law.
With regard to th* unclasmed citizen properties we have taken the position that since these properties
weme never vested In the Government the be  way of disposing of them would be to alow the
landlords to exercise their leasehold rights over the affcted land. We have, accordirgly, announced
that the controlling authorities and other landlords are free to exercise their reversionary interet In
aUl the remainiag unclaimed properties that are not covered by th Expropriated Propertis Act. That
leaves the noncitizen properties (unclaimed or claimed for compensaon) which will be sold. We
have already issued an Order in terms of Section 8 of the Expropriated Properties Act, giving notice
of Governmet's decision to sell or otherwise dispose of these properties. We have also gazem= the
properties to be sold; appointed a Bo3  of Valuers as required by Secton 11 of the Regulations; and
agreed with IDA on thte procedures bat will govern sales of the properdes.
25.   The properties are being sold by compedtive tender. Prospective buyer will have 30 days
within which to submit sealed bids. A 10 percent depoait will accompany aph bid. Once a winning
bid has been announced the buyer will have 60 days wMitin which to pay up. Properties that rgmain
unsold after having been offered for sale may be re-offered for sale a second time or allowed w
revet to the contrlling authority or landlord, as is the case with citizen propertis. We will, by
March 1, 1995, offer for sale all the noncitizen properties that have not bal claimed or for which
compensation claims ais pending.
26.   In terms of Subsection (1) of Section 11 of the Act, the Governmme  Is liable to pay
compensation to noncitizeus who choose not to apply for rssession and we accept the obligation
to pay compensation, We have decided that the proceeds of ale of noncitm  propeties which ae
the subject of compensation claims, less a deduction of no more than 5 percetm to cover sal;s
expeno, will be remitted to the claimant. We will make every efo to romi the proceeds of sale



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 17
-44 -
to the clairnazt within 90 days, once he/she has pmvided the necessary address and account
particulars. In October 1993 we bad announced the deiled procedures that will Sovem the
settment of compensation claims.
27.   As repossession gathered speed, the rvenue base of the Custodian Board began to shrink fast
To take account of this development as well as the decreasing workload the Government replaced the
Verificaion Committee and the Executive Committee by a small committee of four membera. The
Custodian Board has takeu other cost-saving measures such as eliminating unnecessary expenditur
and limidng the size of the tender committee and the Board of Valuess.
ImIprovement of the PCsrfarmnce of the Public Sector
28.   Our e*brts w nurture the private secwor must be complemented by rapid  povemens in the
performance of the public sector. Our concer is with the public sector as the collector of taxes., the
allocatr of resources and the implememer of projects and programs. Here we focus on the Issues
of domestic revenue mobilization, public expenditure priortizaton ad civil sevice reobm
29.   Domestic Revenue Mobilization. Over the past few years we have tried to exploi mot of
the available tax bases to the maximum, broaden the tax base and improve tax admnstration  In
1991 we set up the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA). With eftiet from August 1, 1993 we
exteded preshipmeat inspection to all imports valued above US$2,500 compared to USSS,000
uprviously. This should greatly faclitate te valuadion of Imports for csoms purposes and bolster
customs revenue collection. In spite of these actions the tax base remains narrow and tax
adrninLstration is still in need of improvement. The ratio of rvenue to GDP remais low: 7.6 prcn
in FY93 compared to an avere of 20 percent for Sub-Saha  African countries.
30.   In an affort to broaden the tax base or at least roll back the sev erosion of the tax base we
adopted and implemented, among other things, the following revenus mese at th stait of FY94:
more effective taxation of rental income from real estate at a rate of 20 parcen on 80 percent of gos
rent in excesS of U Sh 840,000 per annum, regardlems of the age of the propenr elimination of the
customs duty exemption provided under the Investment Code for coamtcion maials; reimpostdon
of a minimum 10 percent customs tariff on raw materials; Imposition of i 10 pecent customs duty
on atricultur4l inputs, excluding fertilizers, pestiCides and seeds; elimination of the tax-free status
enjoyed by the army shop; and outright exclusion of certin goods (minera  wats, alcoholic
beverages, tobacco products, motor vehicles of a cylinder capactty of 2.000 c.c. and above etc) fom
eligibility for exemptions except where bilateralfmultlatrl agreement apply.
31.   We also introduced through the FY94 budget a number of measuris aimed at rationaling
the tax structure and improving the yield of various taxes. Wth regard to income tax we brought
all employment benefts and allowances into the tax net; inicreased thpersonal income tax tbresbold
from U Sh 600,000 to U Sh 84Q,000 per annum; lowered the top maginal ae fm 40 percet to
30 percom on personal incomes above U Sh 4.2 million; reduced the numb 4otpmonal tax brackts
from four to hree and reduced the rate of corporation tax from 35 to 30 prceu. The sales tax on
domwst goods as well as Imports has been simplified to four ratEs (0, 10, 20 and 30) compared to
a top rate of 100 percent previously. We plan w introduce a Value Added 'Ta (VAl) In the moedium
tarm. The customs tariffs were rationalized by eliminang the tw  top rates of the preset six-rat
stucturs comprising 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 percet We hiked the excise tD   s  fom 50
percet to 80100 percent on cigarettes and 80 perct on beer, and frm 30 to 50 pert on oft



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 17
drinks. We also raised the maxiJnum graduated tax (a local government tax) from U Sh 40,000 to
U Sh $SO,OO pe annum.
32.   We have also intensified our efforts to improve ta  administa-don. The absence of a
comprehensive taxpaye; identification system has Impacted advesely On revenue collection. URA
ne0td such a database to bo able to monitor systematically and in a timely manner the status of each
taxpayer's account. To address this problem URA has initiated actions to creat a comprehensive
taxpayer database and develop and install a system for migning each taxpayer a permaent,
idendfication number. URA is about complete the assignment of TINS to limited liability companie.
It has already assigned TINs to ZI5,OOO Governmem  employees by July 1993. It will comple the
assignment of TINF to the remaining individual taxpayers by October 1, 1994.
33.   We reognize that thse Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning needs a strog capacity
to formulate tax policies. Such a capacity is needed to condnue the proess of broadning the tax
base, rationalizing the tax structure and maing the Ut; system simpler, more efficiet, equitable and
stable. We are therefors reviewing the strcture and staffing of the Tax Policy Unit in MFEP wi
a view to saengthening It. We expect to have a restuctured and properly staffed unit in place by
end of FY94.
34.   Public Expenditure Prioritiution. In FY91 the Governmet began a proces of expenditr
priritizaon, statng with the recurrant budget. Primary education, primary health   e, water
supply, agricultural research and extension, and road malnmuce woe identified as high priorty
programs, given increased allocations and protected fotm expenditwr cuts in tie of reveu
shortfals. With effect from PY94 we expanded the list of high priority recrrent expendits
programs to include the Police Service, Justce and the Judiciry. the Office of the Auditor Gnerail
and Offc of the Inspector General of Government. The Govenrent's policy is to contiue, t
chanmel more sources into the high priority programs, particularly those which provide basic soS
sevices. Agains! all the competing demands, the Governmem decided w chanel 60 peteut (U Sh
iI billion) of the net incremental rewurces towards boosg pending on the high priority programs
in FY94. This raised the share of the high priority progrums in  tal resoucs (after satsfying the
frst-call demands on the budget) will go up to 41 percent from 39 prcent in the prvious year. We
will reease all the agreed recurrent budget allocaions for the high priority progzams in FY94 and
lfr FY95 agre with IDA on the recurrent programs to be classifled as higb priority and the
budgetary allocations for these programs.
35.   Our approadh to development expenditure is the same as with recurrent expenditure,; th is,
to prioriize. We recognize that the dgvelopmen budget Is too large in relation to the recurrent
budget and in terms of the ability to provide countepart fuids as weU as in Prms of implementatioU
capacity. To begin to prioritize we started in FY94 to divide the developnt budget in  core and
nonwore project (see attachment 1). The core projects, mmberng about 160, will receive full
countepart fudiug. The total FY94 allocaion for governmt coumtpar thnds is U Sh 50 billioo,
of which U Sh 32.9 billion will be for the suppor of core projects. The balace of U Sh 17.1 billion
will support a lae number of noncore projects, many of which will recovt only minimal releases
of countepa flads or none at all and will therdore proceed at a slow pace or even come to a
standstill. With effec from FY95 we will work closely with the donors to start the procss of
trminatig projecs which no longer fit into our development pioriies. We wll also implemen the
following actions by June 1994: (1) release in full the FY94 counterpart allocaions for the cor
projecs; (ii) agre with IDA on the core ptojects to be included in the FY95 deveIopment budget;



ANNEX I
-46-                    Page 10 of 17
and (iii) agree wlth IDA on the amount of counterpict finding to be provided for the core and
noncore projects in FY95.
36.   We have continued the process of salary enhancement within the macroeconomic consu2ints
imposed by our low revenue effbrt. For FY94 we increased the wage bill by 42 percent. from U Sh
62.5 billion in the previous year to U Sh 89 billion. This in turn has meant that the share of was
and salaries in total nuninterest recurrent expenditure has gone up W 27 percent in FY94 compared
tO 25 percent last year and 22 percent in FY91. We have given priority to taOhers in the distribution
of the incremental resources available for wages and salaries in FY94. Thus, the salary of the lowest
tained teacher on the U7 scale has doubled to U Sh 35,000 per month while that of bls or her
counterpart on U7 in the taditional clvil service has gone up by only 19 perct We delayed the
payment of the new salaries until October I, 1993 in order to give the Ministry of Public Service
time to audit the payroll of more schools to eliminate Shosr teachers from the payroll, delete duplicat
names and remove overdue loavers from the payroll. Before June 1994 we will agree with IDA On
the FY95 wage bill and its distnrbution.
37.   Civil Service Reform. The key issues In civil sevice reforn are rationaliloion and
downsizing of the service; reform of remueration policy and payroll administrion; restructuring
and dectralizadon of ministries; and development and introduction of improved personnel
managoment systems. We have already taken a number of actions to reluce the sin of the civil
service. We reduced the number of ministries and self-accounting departments and offices fom 34
to 21. Iu addition. we had, by July 1992, eliminated about 40,000 ghost workers from the cvil
service payroll; reduced the number of group (or temporary) employees from 110,000 to 44,000; and
laid off nearly 14,000 civil servants. Since then wo have contnued to reduce the size of the civil
service. In this rezard, we have made good progress in cleanlng up the teachers payroll. with the
rmuit that the number of teachers declined ftom 115,912 in June to 100,495 in September 1993.
Over the same period, we reduced the 8urber of group employee by over 15,000. We wil
consolidate our effrts to develop and instll establishment, stfn and payroll contol systems dtat
offer protection against corruption of databases.
38.   In order further to reduce distortions in the salary stucture the Governmen terminated in
January 1994 the vecle c-ownership scbeme which allowed senor civil servat to owu
government-procured vehicles at a nominal cost and provided a generouLs fuel allowance. In the same
vein we have decided to abolish the transport and housing benefits enjoyed by cetan categorie of
Govermment employees. To this end we will by June 1994 continue to make progress in replacing
tranWort and housing benefits with cash payments. Abolition of transport and housing benefits meaus
ta the Government will divest itself of pool houses (as opposed to institutional bouses for the police,
teachers, nurses etc) and the existing fleet of 'personal use" and pool vehiclel. We hwave agreed wih
IDA on the modalities for the disposal of the pool houses, the peronal-ub vehicles and the pool
vehicles. We will, by March 1, 1995, make substantial progress In divesdng of the pool houses and
personat use and pool vehicles for civil servans other than Judges, Minister, Deputy Mlilsters and
those entitled to Government housing.                           I
39.   A key aspea of 6wil service reform Is restucuring of minisnies. The Governmmnt has
completed assmemnt of the finctions and staffing of ten minsries. We have bad to revis the
res8uctuing proposals for the first five minisnies in the light of the liberalized ecnomic
environment and the severe resource constraints f:mcing the country. aSed on this review we have
agreed with IDA on the noncore functions and activities from which the minlalss of Agicultui
Trade, Works and Natural Resources will disengage as weU as on tbestainS rationalzatIon plan
for these ministies (Cae attachmem 2). We wil eliminate the noncor funcions aind implemet the
first-stag (i.eprior-tv-decentralization) stffng rarionalizarionplans for the ministies of Agriculture,
Tradc, Works and Natural Resources agreed with IDA by March 1. 1995.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 17
40,  Tre development and introduction of Improved systems for personnel and payroll management
is an essential part of the reforn program. Effors to develop a computerized persomel and payroll
database wwr initiated In FY89 which have produced a computerized payroll system for the
traditional civU service. the police service and the prisons service. The Establishmemt and Staff
Control System (ESCS), developed in MPS for the teacbing service and made operational in Februay
1993, Is being used to establish control over the teaching service payroll, by among other things,
idendfying and removing ghost teachers from the payroll. Before July 1, 1994 we will extend ESCS
to the tnditonal civil service (already In progres) and to the police and prisons services.
41.   We have embarked upon the deeutrulizadon of administrative autborities and rsponsibiliti
to the district level. Actual implemenaion of the decentralization policy started on a pilot basis in
FY94, with thiteen districts allotted separate budget votes covering recurrent expenditure. As the
practical dtails of decenwalization are worked out there will be a ceed to reassess the core functions
and activities of the cental ministries vis-a-vis the districts.
COnclusion
42.   In ordor to make progress in reducing povery Uganda needs to grow much fat. Towards
this end, while maintaining macroewonmic stability,  must make rapid proges toward Improvng
the social indicators. raising land and labor productivity in agriculture and expanding efficiet
industrial production for the domestic market and for export. The progam tt we hve set out In
this leatter will go a long way in helping us to acbieve these gals. In support of this progrm we
hereby request the use of IDA resourmes in the form of a Second Stcrtunl Adjustmen Credit in the
amount of US$80 million.
Yoms sincerely,
'. May  Ja-QangI
Muist of FInanct and Economic Planning



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                        Page 12 of 17
Attacbt..t 1
DEVELOPMENffUDGeTr 1iwo4 - PARTA - COiNON-CORE                   1 f 5
II  ,GrrII                                        JJJEC  1  jJAnuG EUma
IMPIMENTYNG IiCooe   IINAME                                    IICORE IIWS3tU00a
AGq       I  - _-  II                                                 - noct1t1On
0_                                                          2100.00
_ _ _ _ _ _~~~ ~~~~~~~ A_
I_W_     :NV__ONENT PF`1iCTOiL 40
T E L-01 %-- s u ST) Cq~~ C v 4 k M. ZWN 33 &R
R INLAICPAL WC KWL  oNVERVATON         5      T1.             a 
1~~~~~~~t RB a___"Joy                         -                Ior 
L:=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO PLAN) I_ __
~~~~AI              TO ATrII                                 46,12Z
I PO7W   STRF.NGTHEIJ CTO Ulus   -FF            IO.C
_~~~~tw  IME7EW                   _                    I   t O2 37
WEN OIP-TFOFU  WC=NF 6R                         I            123
510 ENER  OWEOP S      ME -i
-   S      _~~~12       M         IO SDID    I _T          j     J-   70.00
~~~~~~-QF   -SAA               IE     n*   A KPO-JErof
-~~~~~0           lFVv   55A_gM                   _        - c.  Io
WT iNU    WAFt AN SA-omHL                           __LA  441.17[4
_       MOl!$ A} ~~~IFURAL %--r          320 875 
0* --,  IWICLWATe_R P                                               OAO
NARo         |AWI jpRICS R&-fW-NTN                                   1       37w
RncRIV                  -W DEEOPET                       -            -2-67
Fo9c9                 "SISATACE TO UANA P=F-ORCE               1c  li    * *wao
_~~~~~~~~~A                                                        42 0.x
11.                                              ICOT  11 Vl <.



ANNEX 1
-49 -                          Page 13 of 17
AttaCt 1
DEVELOPMENT BUDGET 1 tZM4 - PART A - COOJN0N-CORE
02-F.b-94
FpRO..ECT j[PROJECT                               if   liGOU
IMPLEMENTING IGODE    NACOR IIUShs-C
A-NCY- it                                                 a _  rll.aIcas
eFt07                 IS     .NO" IPN UGANDA REC3RNSUCI ION PRO        1l C      S705.625
_________________N_A_IN ORM      TIO  3__MM25.675
JUSII~~EN4O         $18I ANCEY WOo-  Mc 
C.NSTIT. A. .                .                      M
FE' 'CE     IIA6UANW                                                        I.5O _ tU77,SO
IECO. PAIS. PAt4W(u  .AAC INEILN                                           57S4
c   d~~~~141v             H       WAZ3W  M_T.TI                           4,5-1750
-    jI'zbtot ER         P                                   t 7 ao
TR~~'UE~~ AN~~    FAOO.
FNCE X    - II0G16   ILAGE KATW uvSALT EA31BSLITES UO            I      t00
EC~~~~~ON   PLA G6C IAA^                                                  NVS ME4 C OPPN-At79.525
PAII 4.QFFEE -FAFHC  SYSTEMWSMUKOPC
IA7Z(S)  ISATIATCALYS DEEOPMENTS     PS4.Z
PAZC         CALGUM AOMIS FANOMs HDSiYF               I C I 
AITCA I  EAA                                      ,I CaOgI  11OO
PAS1 W  IISC                                      11NU  C  11      19S 7
1PA025)  ISTATISTCAL OEVEf-TASA                  C- I 
TFMXANDIP0i    WID6NER IES Mumm           R MOM1                             ;X
---1MA1tN  IIUANAPHITINPQ31JHIGCO                   t     II        O0
I PAt2W   IGOi{T EZEUTIOt PROJET            4I     I           OM
lA5AC. H|PPULTI ENTECR MPA NENT              11V.  I    II  Z91.2g5
..~~~~~~~UWK ,,4Ti-                          ,,        11w
1 FUU ANDINU,|AG23(3  |IINEF S  .EA0 TtiNPRJC
INU.     l     V420l3  I!AYLL.HL 5TCD.M FWONECT            2I13.00



ANNEX 1
-50-                                  Page 14 of 17
Ee 3 of 5
DEVELOPME4TBUDGET i/4 - PART A - COfEINON-CORI
QZ-feb-94
rPrSO.ECT I(PROECT                                ii   [IOu
IMPLEMENTING fIJODE   JINAME                                    j[C0    s Il(USt'0)
AGENCY.-    t7W   it  Oll reafeca do@
W7s AGS lNVZTRY                         I      17 t15.000
IW SEAN IVA                                             4 1.72250
,    (A)6  l PREGVNIONA OF15  FOT                     IISE  iQ>C     .8,
4Gi8)  NIL  F15OSCHP SR 9                             if   tlS7JOD
4G1 1 m  .  _                    - ll      =~~~~~~~~a.3752
42I I    IAF F'6TOR      HO'UJIMNG Pf0..E0t                        0
IAGt I (E) I IiSH COMMOD SY    S CX                            37.62
IAG3t 2    lPAN AFRICAN RiINWERFESTUAMPAINIv
1t I~~~~~~~~MMUNISAT-ION EAST CoASr FE-VER                      I      U 7i
_1 ILK I      5NO                     i3 .1 75
_ iS  2 IttYE FiDOtVlEN DEr&      -.       _ A                 t2K
- l01     I    M -           I INE  'tO7V
~~~~~L~                      N                  -          41.750
K25V 1CGA                 r;Q&w_                       I {-   18t.375
AG _ SC   STEW  O                                          24 aZ
_'~~~~IO  w  AtCLERLETN59                                                350=0
0    LTFtYPIR_ , C .  _~~~~~~ l.90
G31   rrWl 3 ll I     GJ IMU    IA                C   .==!
At331 -  rsSs CONTROL       I NtN BUU UlA D.C_  ,O
_  t31 (F)  WHO UFFObTYTV CONSC-T    - NW    I4G      C   . -4.
. .       IG~~~~~32   IISMBIUATIOO ssu-nlNKw^   IEC          1     1       19 3rm
--03    I1GSMAL SCATLE RR INr & SWAMP FROECT        I     I   C   11 1
F536s  IDEELPMCNTOF HOFITIULTIMP U4IUvST    T      f       o.S
jAG42(N  lAfOO)ilC.  ALEVINCENI%ImTBL             1     i        53S
Yk%50   rTRININ FCORt ANING PRAC C            II    il
I^GZ   11ITAMA04A AV         ESIII_                     LO
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 1t 11                  37
*vivR _SISA _itV SYTE I                                                   30,   ,  _,
LANDS,. HOUSINITZ4    IIDEV BrtUIlDlZNG MATS N1WIN AFRICA       l C   i5000
UR4eA EIV. iE       i      CET. SURVw                        }              40,X00
1151070L  IINAMUWONGO UPFIRADJ & LOW COST MovaNG    II  _11    273F
---~~~~~~~FS 8;            |VSUbtZ:;                  Ic  11       23.0,zs
EVUCATION~ ~~~lubam &   Es-P5MIwIO   F4K i,1 -                             250
EDIUCAnON  DaCAl)  Fi-A9EWIMIURlF7MCSUC&N8                  jlC--1-53,
aDqrc.EF  IUTASStS vrEs-ql  EV-AS          -j OPK  -9       15.qz
IAL EDUCATION              I~      ~    ~~c 11  9.500
IStt C  ISCHOO HEALT EDUCTIO LFMPROECT                        12 _C_II _ 
_ol()_ FLA PflAR  COU-7_          _.5liE
M EJ.I-KMMll_"
ON* OF3_0
_~~~~~~1                                                                   2_50



-51 -                            ANNEX I
Page 15 of 17
At;.rmt 1
DEVELOPMlENT' BUDGE Ti14- PART A- CORE/NO.J4-CORe                    4 
02-Feb-94
jl  11                              ll   tI~~~~~~~~~~~JAnni"il Euimales
(PRIOJECT J[PROJECT                                llrOcU
IMtPLEMNNG 11COOE   JINAMIE                                     11COSE ICU$hsI'IXX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I F P rgl u, anY
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _-                                      210.7g
_~ ~ ~~~~~~~DCTO PRJC                                   -ifs _C  11    21t,6a5
I~~~ ~~ EDZ      MM4NI -Y                            11t OEIN 
S145( POPJLATIQN 6t FAMUIIw UFt. FO 9CDC)9       Z4.WO
. U1t03> -MEIA ATIJAL STALNUM                 I  UQo
FtEALTFt               ENSYIR =A  RM&EI.                                       11-@,37
1    CC)  IUEDEMP-MME;QUIP.FR  A INSTRUMvERr     X =                =
HIM    l63ISTRENC;114N OF PHC SEVIlCES-8gTBF  7W
H -104(B)  IIMANIAGEMENT SUPPORT-HEATt UF4Y8T       -t5           1250,
= 7    =  =~1 415    IA0 CON  ORMEl!I1URVMIEC                  Cc 7        t8.01
__7 410gio(s)  IAICS C       O     8TO P ROG-ue eoo                        s. c  . 1oor
sIVOq(A.UGNOA AIOS COMMISUSiIIQ Sf:CFIETAUWAT11C29.5
. 10541)  rRESEACH   MOQCN A4DS IN sUMWIA       c
II   llcctNUrOL & PFIE'v.OF MG EA  -C              C c-tS5
lldiD    COtNSlTHUQTION OF, MIgWI>IOPr-I:h    11            a2,J
IFIWtE)ICONZTTH. OF PMA HOSPITAL-FHIP      __   11       
-  ~    IIHIOStG1  IIMUtAGO UVItwGQ WA"teFlw Hp-p _11             1      ZZILeye
LAN"IN                 30,~~~~000
-    1S~ iyLL    EVE t__-- A  _wv
WO0RKS. TRWS7.   1>P        _ANEAC INA= O
Hl1Z1REFYKtUAO    THE TERM. SUILQIIN<;1             1    
Nil=~~~~~ ~ ~~                 t,lliB
IllP3tA)IlR)tElAT1N-OF MAJOR BRICME&         IIC  I          Rw
tITPEtXII6QUATORi FEEOEF ROAOS                -        11      30.a0w
-       }W    C~TRQUAMP OUMPLAM
(Ai  IUPGRADING GRAV-L ROAMWE41T. :Q              O
T9               JNARA;AR
li'  llsu~totol    -                             1    11 w       :
IXTIVA)  IEATPROMOAN OfE OKAIOWL PE PAtNiNCDEe1 
_~~T              OOINO  OAINLTAtN
-~~~~~~~ADFML  EM    U.3=
~~~~~~~ _VTO LM  __0RS7METSFem6,S



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                         Page 16 of 17
A4t-,-& t 1
Fiw5Of 5
OVELOPMENWBUDGETlM3:4 - PARTA - COPEMON-CORrm
OZ-Feb-94
JJPROQFCT fJPRO%ECT                               11    no
IMPLEM4N71NQ Uic0DE   19M                                       licoRe lg(Ustuooo
AGENCY       I ) -                                           _ 
u  t o w
_ _ _  ILT     A -T FA T-- R-                             -
_ _ _-__ _ _         u  t o W                                            -   z 6 4 . 2 5
T~~~U~~  Z111AJ.       N17S0DFSHR;                                 16.000-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ C _ _ _                                                    1 1   t'
___________                     UM5                                I    C   -0.0'--,0
___5__ _____ _                                       C   f      ST.1
Hi -S-WIMTrH -7k.V. RH& *wFiQ%MQ (KFF-PFU          j eIf       - 3.2Sy
SUbtatal                                   71     1       .S3X
MAKERE 1NEV ()  NASAC. IESTM T IMPOAT-MU                                            , -.
0W __cIR Q    Uaro P
11E-RI_  _RFLN  =C-                               I c  1    213.0CO
llDOI (E)              O N_E DT-M                                30 WO0
*      lEO%1t~~o a4  FElkA51UTA-nlON OF MfSR rAUCrrES      I     I
ED!L _~It__ RESAC  _A TH.                       I- o
;X:W iFAf-NlNs3 FOR tC;0SN FOLIPY'S FEAM0           Ia o
=-_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a ._ j. -15 -w
gPl:a(HJ8AI FOHENST OF                            _.        
.~~~~~~~~~~HQQkLQ   =CNA                                                  5,374
SUbtata                                             I    
Q__rM I A            eMIIMM FFiAYS_ IOQS          C           50.2
_   4MA PFOz    lOMP=lt & MPR. OF ISEASES-kihlEPl     I IC   1     575
M-3195W  IUQMUA FIRRIVROAN PMQJF-Ur~~  I c   I  600'CG0t
_~~~~r _M (A) IIEC-    -                                  Ic I          0.
& ~~~~~~ET. OF, USG LRAFUF         -                 1 li B   i-- 
=~~~~~~VWQNAJlNlT I                                         24W
WilbDUfE&FT*"l a3E  I jr RULA FEDF M M   S-UNAOE7AO          jj C   il    -20500
_ti Oa-  I _~  MN _. _4HL FFV-eiMSAD           !I                2
_TIa(_ IlHt  _A .RRA                                       
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.M              .   FIZ .l;    i C      -ir ' If9t



ANNEX 1
Page 17 of 17
- 53 -
Attaehment 2
WoUIore  'unctions to be MliZinted and Extimated staffing Requi:smca*.
Ki=istry of Workx, TrZaSport and Cocmun4cazions
facil taztI.o, Lpotration and dlustcibution of t=ansport enipS=eut;
road cOAStructLon, maintenance and _S-aI= (to be contracted out);
priovisLon 4=zI mantna4s of ainstltutionaL hous4ig (to be contracted out);
road mlatesa.Uce, cazap
prcure=nt p.nd maj.tsnauom of read onatruction equipment;
facilitatLon   of   iiportation  and  diatribution   of   postal   and
telecomunications equipment;
ope catLon and matntenance of ferry fervi.cv (to be commerialized);
development aad sohablitation of posts and teleemue.tions;
maintenance and rehailitatiern o  aeriromes (to be left to the Civi
Aviation Authority).
_euiuted sta.ffng requiemuents 6S4.
Ministry of Natural gesources
fclitatioLn of rehablitation of economically viable mines;
determination of pump prices of petroleum products (to be left to market
fforces) 
feiicatiioAi and monitoring of importation and distribution of petroleum
products;
coordiAation of tha activities oJ the petroleuA  companies.
estimated staffing requirement: 2,230.
Ministry of Trade and Zadustry
gui,dace of investors (to be left to OganduL Inesltment Authorltyl;
provision of agricuLtural product price information (to be left to the
Ministry of Agriculture);
interaction wdth bNon-owernmental OrganizationS (TNGOS) I
trai=nig and advising of entrepreneurs;
carrying out of promotional activLtles (to be left to Export PromotLon
Council and JXZA).
est5.m&ted staf fg ru-L1.rement: 500.
Miristry of Agr_iculture, Ari.mnl Industry and Fissheries
fi;sh f admLn;;.
young fa.-zs Progren
e*st_nate staffing requirements 6,667.



Page 1 of 7
UGANDA: SECOND STtUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
________    a. SAIC Actmi Fromram         and Schedul
1. Regulatory and Busines Climate. The objective is to facilitate private sctor development
through fiuther dereg on and streamlining of investment promotion.
a) Coffee
Producer prices have been    a) agree with IDA on fiuther coffee  done
libenrized.                  subsector liberalization measures
relating to licensing, floor prices,
Under ASAC a new             transport to the ports, method of
commercially-otiented        export sales of coffee and the
marketing agency, CMBL,      stnre of the Uganda Coffee
was incorporated and the     Development Authority (UCDA).
export monopoly of CMB
was abolished, thereby    b) amend the UCDA Statute to replace    done
opening up coffee exports to    licensing with a system of
private taders.              registration of coffee exporters, and
restruture the UCDA.
Responsibility for crop   c) revise the export floor price formula    done
finance was shifted from the  and announce the floor price each
central bank to commercial   day.
banks.
d) remove the restriction on the method    done
A National Agdculal          of export sales of coffee.
Research Organization
(NARO) was established.    e) liberalize completely the transportation  done
of coffee to the sea ports.
f3 Gazetteregulations covering       condition of
registation of coffee exporters and  effectiveness
quality control of coffee for export.
g) abolish the floor price mechanism.  condition for second
tranche release



-56 -                       Annex I
Page 2 of 7
UGANDA: SECOND SRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
-Moultorable Actions.-
?ut AdJueb*>ent Wort'SAC Aion PWgr  :                                 and Schedule
b) Cotton
Fixed maximum producer    a) prepare appropriate new legislation on   done
praes have been replaced    cotton.
by indicative prices.
Seed multiplication and   b) obtain parliametay approval and   done
cotton production activities  Presidential assent for the Cotton
are being suppored by the   Development Bill.
IFAD-finaeed Smnaliholder
Cotton Rehabilitation     c) tae stock of debt owed by each union  done
Project. Complementary      and agree with the union and creditor
support will be provided    banks on the modalities for ginnery
under the proposed IDA      rercturing and debt relief.
Cotton Development
Project.                  d) take all necessary measures to    condition for second
facilitate the transfer, by way of sale,  tranche release
Four cooperative unions     lease, management or restuctuing of
bave been granted licenses  ginneries with installed capacity of at
to export cotton            least 100,000 bales to creditworthy
and viable operators.
Draft legislation to
liberalize the industry has
been prepared.
Some unions have initiated
efforts to sell or lease their
gineedes to private
.I operators.                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-57 -                       Amnex I
Page 3 of 7
UGANDA: SEcoND STRucTuRAL ADJUSmNT CREnrr
POuCY MATRIX
.                                         Monitot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~able  ctn
c) The Investment Code
The Investment Code came   a) agree with IDA on terms of reference   done
into force in 1991.          and issue invitations for propoals to
consltants for a study to review tbe
The Uganda Investment       Investment Code and the operations of
Authority was set up to     the Uganda Investment Authority.
administer tie Code.
b) enter into a contract with consultans    condition of
to review the Investment Code and  effectiveness
operations of UIA.
c) consider, in consultation with IDA,
recommendations of study of the   condition for second
Investment Code and the UIA.      tranche release
d) Petroeum Pt,icus
Government has            a) remove the controls on the pump   done
implemented full pass-      prices of petroleum products
through of import and local
cost.l
Govemment has also taxed
petroleum heavily to
encourage efficient use.
Stting with FY94,
Government has refrained
from raising the tax on
kerosene which is an
environmentally preferred
substitute for firewood.
A study of the potential
benefits and risks of
petroleum procurement
through ICB has been
compiated and Cabinet
authority to introduce ICB
obtained



58-                         Annex s-
Page 4 of 7
UGANDA: SzCOND STRCTRAL ADJUSlhlNX  CRDIT
POLICY MATRIX
2. Custodian Board TIh objective is to promot private sector developmant by completing the
divestiture of the properties.
Significant progress has  a) advertise locally and abroad a cutoff   done
been made over the past      de for reposession.
two years in eurning the
properties to tie owners; a    b) complete classification of properties    done
total of over 2,500          into citizen and noncitizen categories
propertes have been
retued.                   c) develop and announce the procedures   done
for the settlement of compensation
claims.
d) replace the Executive Committee and    done
Verification Committee of the
Custodian Board by a small
committee.
e) retu  all remainig pperies with   done
valid rpossession claims to the
owners.
f) announce that tie controlling     done
authorities and odhe landlords are
free to exercise their reversionary
interests in all remaining unclaimed
properties not covered by the
Expropiatd Properties Act.
g) issue an Order giving notice of   done
Government's decision to sell or
dispose of unclaimed noncitize
properties; gazette the propies to be
sold and appoint the Board of
Valuers.
h) develop satisfactory slle procedures  done
for unclaimed noncitizen properties.
i) tale llnecesymeasures to offer    condition for second
for sale (taking into account market    tranche release
conditions) all properies covered by
the 1982 Exropriated Properties Act
not claimed by the owners or for
which compensaton claims are
I pending.



59-                       Annex II
Page 5 of 7
UGANDA: SECOND STRUCTuRAL ADJUShENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
________________    SACActloiiNogxiuu           j M~iWtorable Atin.
,X,, :D st~~~.;,  ......       A     W
3. Domestic Revenue. The objective is to improve the fiscal position through sgnificant increas  in
revenue brought about by firther strengthening tax administration and broadening the tax base.
a) Tax Administration
The Uganda Revenue        a) develop a comprehensive taxpayer   done
Authority was established in    identification number system.
1991.
ODA (UK) and IDA          b) assign taxpayer identification numbers  ongoing
technical assistance is being  to limited liability companies.
provided to the URA.
c) assign taxpayer identification numbers  ongoing
to individual taxpayers.
b) The Tax Base
The coverage of the sales    a) review tax and tariff exemptions.  done
tax was broadened.
The Government started    b) agree with IDA on the exemptions to   done
enforcing the commercial     be eliminated or curtailed.
trnsactions levy.
A tax on rental income was   c) adopt and implement the proposed  done
introduced.                  FY94 revenue measures.
The Minister announced in
his 1993/94 Budget Speech
major new revenue
measues.



-60-                        Annex I
Page 6 of 7
UGANDA: SECOND STRUCTuRAL ADjuwmENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
:     ;@ Adjustment          :'T     SA .Action Wr~atn          I '   ztotb1A to
4. Public Expenditure. The objective is to promote human resource development and economic
growth by increasing and protecting the budgetary allocations for the high priority recurret programs
in the economic and social sectors and by restructuring the development budget.
The process of increasing    a) remove from the teachers' payroll  done
and protecting the budgetary    overdue leavers, duplicate names and
allocations for primay      ghost teachers; postpone the payment
health, primary education,  of new salaries to October 1, 1993.
water supply, roads and
agricultural research and  b) release all the FY94 budgeted    condition for second
extension has continued.    allocations for agreed high-priority    tranche rolease
recurrent programs and core projects;
To improve accountability   for FY95, make satisfactory budgetary
and the administration of   allocations for the wage bill, nonwage
justice, the Police Service,  recurrent expenditure and
Justice and the Judiciary,  development expenditure.
the Office of the Auditor
General and the Office of
the lIspector General of
Goverment have been
added to the list of high
priority programs.
Expenditure control has
improved significantly.
Recommendations of the
PSRRC for improving
transparency and equity of
the remuneration structure
have been endorsed by the
Govetnmen



- 61 -                      Anmex n
Page 7 of 7
UGANDA: SECOND STRucTURAL ADJUSMNT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
:  ::  f    I  -I Montorable ACti; 
1at tent et   4              SAC Acton Program                  d ce
5. Civil Service Reform. The objective is to improve public resource management and service
delivery by creating a small, well-paid and well-motivated civil service.
Retrenchment has          a) complete the FY93 retrenchment    done
continued, with 40,000      involving 7,500 established staff.
ghost workers eliminated
from the traditional civil  b) install a payroll validation system,  ongoing
service, the number of      including detailed instructions to line
group employees reduced     ministries on hiring, promotion, firing
by about two-thirds and     and retirement.
14,000 established staff laid
off in the year to July 1993.  c) carry out an audit of the teaching  ongoing
service payroll to identify ghost
The functional review of ten  workers.
ministries has been
completed and that of     d) remove at least 15,000 group      done
another seven ministries has  employees from the payroll.
statted.
A teachers census was     e) agree with IDA on the noncore     done
carried out and the results  functions to be eliminted by the
have been used to develop    ministries of Agriculture, Trade,
an establishment and staff  Works and Natural Resources and the
control system as well as a  first-stage staffing rationalization plans
computerized payroll for the    for these ministries.
teaching service.
f) terminate the vehicle co-ownership  done
scheme; develop a satisfictory plan
for divestiture of pool houses and
personal use and home-to-office
pool vehicles.
g) continue to make progress in replacing condition for second
transport and housing benefits with    tranche release
cash payments, and make satisfictoxy
progress towards divestiture of pool
houses and personal and home-to-
office pool vehicles for civil setvants
other than judges, ministers, deputy
ministers and those entitled to
institutional bouses.
h) eliminate noncore functions in the  condition for second
ministries of Agriculture, Trade,  tranche release
Wors and Natural Resources and
implement first stage staff
rationaLan plans.



- 63 -
UGANDA                                                                           ANNEX M.l
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
(In millions of US Dollaii)
Exports GNFS                         199       195       206      292       347       396       440
Merchandise (fob)                   176       172      157       218       266       308       345
o/w Coffee                         127      117       104       132       159       184      203
Non-Factor Services                  23        23       49        74        81        89        95
Imports GNFS                                   592       753      830       902       973      1039
Merchandise (cif)                   5 r.     451       573       670       723       180       833
olw Petrol                        8'        51'       53        56       59        63        68
Non-Factor Services                 126       131      180       160       179       193       206
Resource Balae
Net Factor Insome                    -58       -87       -49      -72       -64       -63       -63
o/w Net Interest                    -9       -87       -49       -46       -39       -35      -34
Current Private Transfars                      136       241      279       283       289       296
CIA Balance (exci Grn&                4         $                                      . s )2~
Official Transfers (Grants)        220                                -
Import Support                    87        75       111       '0        48        48        30
Project Aid                      175       131       148       141      148       155       163
C/A Balace (mcl GOants)           =_
Net M&LT Loans                       122        38       '27       158      192       173       181
Disbursements                      214       163       231      266       276       258       266
Project Loans                     115       94       148       141       148       155       163
Import Support Loans               99        69       84       126       128       103       103
Repayments                          92       125       104       108       84        85        85
Foreign Investment/Kenya Comp.         1         2         4        7         0         0         0
Short-Term, net                      -37        31       -43       -5       -12        -7         4
Errors/Private Sector Holdings         0         1         0        0         0         0         0
Oven alanc
Fiancin.g:                      $. -2                    -29
Monetary Authorties
Gross Reserve Changes               -15       -24      -39       -50      -109       -94       -68
IMF, net                             52       22        10        18       -26       -39       -56
SAF/ESAF and Purchases            89        55        28       26         0         0         0
Other, net                            0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Short Term/Commercial                 -2        -4       -4         0         0         0         0
Change in Arrears                     65        98      -330      -48      -232         0         0
Exceptional Financing                  1        28       370       40       327       115       112
Rescheduling/Cancellation             1       29       197        28         0         0         0
Commercial Buy-Back                   0        0       134         0         0         0         0
Adjustment                            0        0        39        12         0         0         0
Residual Finance Gap                  0        0         0         0       327       115       112
Memo Item:
Gross Reserves (EOP)                  15        39        77       127      236       330       398
in months ofimports                   0         1        2         2         4         5         6
Source:       Bank of Uganda and IMP.



- 64 -
UGANDA                                                                           ANNEXI11.2
EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
(In millions of US Dollars)
Requirements                        .
Imports GNFS                              671     582      753      830      902     973    1039
Scheduled Debt Service                    188      245      171     162      148      159      175
Amortization                       92      125      104      108      84       85       85
Interest, net                      58       87       49      46       39       35       34
IMF Repurchases                    37       33       18       8       26       39       56
Reserves Build-Up                          1S       24      39       50      109       94       68
Available Fiunacing
Exports GNFS                              199      195     206      292      347     396      440
o/w Coffee Exports                       127      117      104      132     159      184      203
o/w Noncoffee Merchandise Exports         49       55       53      86      108      124      143
o/w Non-Factor Services                   23       23       49      74       81       89       95
Private Transfers                          81      136     241      279      283     289      296
Other Items, net                          -38      -31     -43      -24      -38      -34     -25
Foreig Fiacing from
Existing Commitments 
IMF Purchases                              89       55      28       26        0        0       0
Project Aid                               291     225      295      282      252     233      212
o/w  IDA Financing                      84       65       79      75       68       60       52
Import Support                            185      144      195     196      131       90      40
o/w  IDA Financing                      85       65       56      65       65       58        0
Exceptional Financing                       1       28     370       40        0        0       0
Change in Arrears (-=increase)            -65      -98     330       48      232        0       0
Financing Gap
Source: Bank of Uganda, IMF and saff esimates.



- 65 -
ANNEX lV
UGANDA                                                                        CAS TABLE 1
SELECTED INDICATORS OF PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND
MANAGENME
Port/oio Performnce
No. of Projects under Implementation                        25      28      32        29
Average implementation Period (years)                      3.7      4.2     4.5      4.9
% Projects Rated '3' or W4"
Development Objectives                                    16       18      13       10
Overall Status                                            16       14      19       17
Average Ratings
Development Objectives                                   1.70    1.63    1.68       1.59
Overall Status                                           1.96    1.96    2.10      2.00
Disbursement Ratio (%)                                     24.1   14.7    14.6       N/A
Memorandum Item  % Completed Projects Rated Unsatisfatory                   37
Porolo Management
Supervision Resources (total sws)                         381.9   470.1   433.9    219.2
Average Supervision sws/project                            15.3    16.8    13.6       7.5
Supervision Resources by Location (in %)
Percent Headquarters                                     91.9    90.9    95.0    91.3
Percent Resident Mission                                 8.10    9.14    4.96       8.7
Supervision Resources by Rating Category
(staffweeks/project)
Projects rated   or 2                                    15.7    18.0    15.0       7.7
Projects rated 3 or 4                                    16.2    9.2       8.7      6.2
Memorandum item date of last CPPR                                       03/94
As of December 30, 1993.



-66-
ANNEX IV
UGANDA                                                                                     CAS TABLE 2
BANK GROUP FACT SHEET
IBRD/IDA LENDING PROGRAM, FY91 - 97
BY SECTOR AND LENDING INSTRUMENT
(% of Total Commitments/Disbursements)
IPA ~     ~        -                                                   .. .. :........< a
CommiunentB (US$m)                         2762.,                2=L4   Z500                       L35)
Sector (%)
Ecnomio   sm t                                                                                      18
PubLic Sector Management             1      48        1                30
Poverty Reducion & Human Res. Devi.                                                                  31
Human Resource                        -        -      23                19
Private Sector Devlosment                                                                           15
Indusy & Finance                     -      25       58                 1
Environmentally Sustainable Dev.                                                                     36
inasructure                         10      27        -                45
Power                               45                -
Agriculture                          4      - _                     1 
TOTAL                            100      100     100               100                       100
Lending Instrument (X)
Ad,h?stment 1/                       37       48      45                 31                       10
Specific Inv.Loans & Others          a        la      a                  69                      -v
TOTAL                             100     100      100               100                       100
Disbursements (US$m)                       169    I13    -3                    77      2/
Adjustment Credits                   85      65       56                39                        30
Specific mv. Loans & Others          84      65       79                38                        70
Pnncipal Repayments (US$Sm)                  2        2       4                 2      2/
Interest Payments (US$m)                     7        8       9                 5      2/
1/ Includes IDA Reflows.
2/ As of December30, 1993.



-67 -                           ANNEX IV
UGANDA                                                                                     CAS TABLE 3
POVERTY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPPMNT INDICATORS
*W* Se .rqkihrp                      N
Unit Of           YOM         Yom         dma.    Saaw,             LOW       iuaoew
indtar geo                                                                            (MM)        Afaic       noome        goup
POVERTY
Upper poVerty line                        loal cur.                                    $,000
Headcount index                          %ofpop.                 ..          ..         30
Lower povaty line                         low aurr.               ..          ..       25.00
Headcow  index                           %ofpop.                 ..          ..         10
ONPpercapita                                 USS                  *-          *         170          350         350        1,610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDtCATORS
Unskilled u     w                         lo      .                ..         ..          ..
Unskilled nmal wag'
Rural tsm oft*r.de
Cnsunprice inWuex                         1987-100                _            ..       815.
Lower me 3.0nd,
Food                                         *                   ..          ..        364
Urban*.........
Rural                                       *
SOCIAL INDtCATORS
Public epew    on be soWil Su            %oiGDP                  ..          ..          6
Gross aTiMeMal roatis
Primuy                                 %  dioolaVpop.            67          44          71           70         113          100
Male                                         *                  83          53          76           76         122         106
POj.                                         4                  30          35          63          60          106          98
Mortality
infutmoality                          tgoUvLMbirt              119         111         118          104          70          40
under 5 moaclity                             *                   ..          ..        185          177          98          53
1mnwnizaion
Measles                                 %a  eMoup                _           ..         60           40          73          70
DPT                                                              ..          ..         60           35          81          74
Cild malnuti (udw5)                           *                   _          33          45
Uife extocy
Total                                      Yas                  47          50          46           51          63          67
Fanaleri/als                               raio                1.05        1.04        1.02        1.06        0.95         1.08
Tow fetiltytn                           bib*  per wm             7.0         7.2         7.3         6.4          3.7         3.5
Ma;rd moraity rta                      100,000 lUV. boam          .                     550
Population growth rate                       Infant mortality rte                        Primary enrollment
(paceel)                                (thou. diitbiuiizs)                            (psaa
6+.                                       250                                          120+-
mit60                               200                                         100
4                                                                                      80
150
3                                                                                      6
2                                                                                      4
0         tv':            0  ~~~~~~~~~&                               0       r
mid60s    aidd70s       an                  add 60o    mid 70a     WAm                  mid 60a    mid 7Os      mm
CD Usarda
-O Loincome



- 68 -                     ANNEX IV
CAS TABLE 3 cont'd
Ugsnda: Resources And Expenditures
AMes Same ro           group        Mew
23530      15.20      rect        - Sub-                  Aighr
'nA Of            YO         yw,         nam       Sa4rdX        LO-       ico.w
ndicdaor                                 15*4* E                         'aO       (Me)        AfO;i:     inom         group
HUMAN RESOVRCES
Populadon (nurl-P9l)                     thouaada           8,047      11.228      16,899     488,932   3,127.265    773,803
Age dependency n3io rraio                                    0.9, 1.00               1.06        0.97       0.66        0.71
lueoan                                   %of pop.             6.5         8.3        11.0        28.7        40.1       53.9
Population rwtah Mte                     Annual               4.6         2.6         3.4         3.0         1.9        1.7
Ulrban                                                       9.0         33          9.0         5.0         5.2        3.1
Labor fore(15_4)                        fthousands          3,949       5,331       8,385     203,947   1,448,104    302,442
AboiuttuS                             %oflaborfoce             91         U            ...
ndustrY                                     '3                             4
Femnale                                                        43         43          41          37          33          32
Female per 100 males
urban                                       ber..                         ..          .. 
Rursa
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                   thou. sq. km           236        236         236       23.066     38,828      23-60
Density                                pop. per sq. km       34.0        48.0        67.0        20.0        77.0       31.0
Agricularal land                       %oflandares           33.4        36.1        42.6        51.0        47.4       41.8
Change in apicultal iand                 auwl %               0.0         2.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Agricultural and under imptioc              %                 0.0         0.1         0.1         5.5        13.7       12.6
Fores and woodland                      thou.sq.km             63         63          56        6,651      9,197        ,396
Deforestation(net)                         ulal%             .0.1         0.1        4.9
INCOME
Household unc
Shate oftop 20%/oof housebolds         %ofincoote              ..        47           ..
Sham of bontom 40% ofhouebols                                  ..        17          42
Shae ofboten 20% of hsehol*                                    ..         6          35
EXPENDITURE
Food                                     %ofODP                 ..         ..        46.8
Staples                                                        ..         ..        25.3
a fis mi  dheeseo e,                                          ..          ..        10.9
Cereal impots                        thou. mebictm             44          6           7        7,238      36,008     44,41S
Food aidinAerea                              *.                            0          35        2,677       6,669      4,047
Food prouion  per capita                1979;1-100            109         140         97          94         122         101
Fertilizer coonption                       k0h                 1.0        0.0         0.0        14.5        47.5       94.2
Shar oficulte in GDP                     %ofGDP              48.6        66.6        48.4        29.2        28.7
Housing                                  %ofODP                 ..         ..        12.0
Averge household size               persm per heold            ..          ..          _.
rban                                                         ..          ..          _
Fixed invernen bousing                   %of0DP                 ..         ..         2.6
Fuel and power                           % ofODP                ..         ..         1.7
Enrgyconsumptionpa capita              kgofoilequiv.           36         43          27          100        350        1,249
Households with electicity
Urban                                % otbousebolds            ..         ..          ..
Rural                                                          ..         ..          ..
Transport and conmulatdon                %of GDP                ..         ..         4.2
Fixed inveasne    aspot equipm'                                 ..         ..         2.6
Total road length                           km                 ..          ..      28,332
INV'ESTNIENT IN HUMAN CAPtrAL
Helth
Accas to heath care                      % ofpop,.                                ..         ..                            .
Population per physician                  palm              11,084      9,302          _*
Population per rse                                          3,124           ..         ..
Population per hospil bed                                   3  .1        607        1,248       1,328       1,048        509
Access to safb woe                       %of pop.               ..         ..        21.0        36.7        70.6
St.ban                                     .                   .           _        37.0        74.3        79.3
Rural                                      *. --                                    18.0        24.2        62.8
Oral rehydyrstion trpy (undwr5)          % of coo               _           _          15         35          32
Educadon
Gross enrollme rsio
Secondary                            %ofschoolta pop.           4          4           13          18         44          56
Feaale                                     *                   2          2          63           14         37
Pupil-techer raSio: primay            pupils per tadr          35         34          35          39          39          25
Pupil-teadcer ratio: sondy                                     19         23          1S           ..         20
Pupilsraclingpade4                      %of                     ,         U8           ..          69.
Pcster rue: pri%oimeroy                                        ..          10          14 to                   .
Illiteracy                           %ofpop.5(   I 3+)         62                                 SI          39
Famale                              %of fen (ae 15+)            .                    65           62          52
Ne44cAlpaper ciulation                  per thou. pop.          8           7           2           5
Sotuce: World Bank Interetional Economics Depaqmag. Apdl 1993



ANNEX IV
UGANDA                                                                                            CAS TABLE 4
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Natonal Accounts (as % of GDP at current MP - fiscal years)
Agriculture (at FC)                             55.1    53.8    49.8    48.5    49.4    47.3    46.8    46.2    45.6
Industry (at FC)                                 9.2     9.5    10.8    12.0    11.6    11.8    12.1    12.4    12.7
Services (at FC)                                31.4    31.0   32.8    33.7    32.8    34.2    34.0   33.7    33.5
Net Indirect Taxes                               4.2     5.7     6.6     5.8     6.1     6.7     7.2     7.6     8.2
Total Consumption                              106.1   105.3   104.0   105.9   104.5    97.6    96.9    96.4   95.8
Gross Domestic Investment                       10.3    12.2    15.2    15.5    15.3    15,8    15.9    16.2    16.2
Private                                     7.9     8.2    9.1      8.4     6.9     8.7    9.5    10.2    10.4
Public                                      2.6    4.1      5.8     7.2     7.6    7.1      6.4     6.0     5.8
Net Changes in Stocks                      -0.2   -0.1      0.3   -0.1      0.8     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Exports GNFS                                     6.7     6.0     6.2    7.3      5.4     7.2    8.1      8.6     8.8
Imports GNFS                                    17.1    17.7   22.9    24.9    23.2    20.6    20.9    21.2    20.9
Statistical Discrepancy                        -5.9   -5.8   -2.5   -3.9   -2.0          0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Gross Domestic Savings                          -0.1     0.5   -1.5   -2.1    -2.5       2.4    3.1      3.6     4.2
Gross National Savings                           0.7     0.5   -0.8   -0.4       3.4     7.6     8.2     8.6     8.9
Memorandum Items:
GDP (US$ million at current prices)            5293    4365    3306    2830    3236    4033    4305    4583    4984
GNP per Capita (current US$)                    332     265      196     161     182    220      229     238     252
Real Annual Growth Rates (96):
GDP at FC                                   6.5     5.5     4.4     2.6     7.2     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Gross Domestic Income                       7.3     3.4     2.8     1.5     7.0     6.7    5.7      5.7     5.9
Real Annual per Capita Growth Rates (%):
GDP at MP                                   3.8     2.8     1.0   -0.5      4.4     2.9     2.7     2.6    2.8
GDP at FC                                   3.7     2.7     1.6   -0.2    4.3       2.2    2.1      2.1     2.1
Total Consumption                           3.5     2.8     0.4     1.6    2.2   -1.2       1.6     1.8    2.1
Private Consumption                         3.9     2.0     1.0   -0.5      3.4   -3.7      0.4     0.5     0.3



ANNEX IV
CAS TABLE 4 Cont'd
Balance of Payments (in US$ m - in fiscal years)
Exports GNFS                                      304     246      199     195     206      292     347     396      440
o/w Merchandise, fob                         282     210      176     172      157     218     266     308      345
Import GNFS                                       712     676      671     582     753      830     902     973    1039
olw Merchandise, cif                         562      584     545     451      573     670     723     780      833
Resource Balance                                 -408    -430    -472    -386    -547    -538    -555    -577    -599
Net Factor Payments                               -67      -77     -58     -87      -49     -72     -64     -63      -63
o/w Interest Payments                        -66      -77     -58     -87      -49     -46     -39      -35     -34
Net Current Transfers                             114      78       81     136     241      279     283     289      296
Current Account Balance (excl Grants)            -361    -429    -449    -338    -355    -331    -336    -351    -366
Current Account Balance (incl Grants)            -230    -276    -188    -131       -96    -120    -140    -148    -173
Official Transfers                                131      153     262     206      259     211     196     203      193
Net Private Foreign Investment                     13       6        1       3       4        7       6       7        8
Net Long-Term Loans                               125     215      122      38      127     158     192      173     181
Other Capital (incl E&O)                          -11       12    -37      -31      -43      -5     -18      -14      -4
Finacing (- = increase):
Change in Reserves (incl IMF resources)            18       10      37      -2      -29     -32    -135    -133    -124
Other Financing                                   -46    -119    -198      -83    -222    -220    -100       -88     -81
Memorandum Items:
Resource Balance as % of GDP at MP                -7.7    -9.9   -14.3   -13.7   -16.9   -13.3   -12.9   -12.6   -12.0
Real Annual Growth Rates, 1991 Prices
Exports, GNFS                                -2.1    32.2   -16.8      9.0     5.8    26.7    13.6      9.0     6.0
Merchandise Exports (fob)                    -0.4    25.0   -14.5     9.9    -8.4    20.9    16.2    10.0       6.9
olw Coffee                                   2.6    -2.7   -19.3      6.7   -11.3      3.6    13.0     9.1      4.3
Imports, GNFS                                 1.1    -7.4    -4.5   -16.0    26.5      8.0     5.4      4.8     3.8
Merchandise Imports (cif)                   -0.2      1.4   -10.2   -19.9    24.2    14.5      4.7      4.8     3.8
Public Finance (as % of GDP at MP - in fiscal years)
Recurrent Revenues                                5.3      6.8     7.5     6.8      7.2     8.5     9.5    10.2    11.3
Recurrent Expenditures                            6.7      7.0     7.2    11.9      8.3     8.8     9.4      9.4     9.7
Recurrent Deficit (-)                            -1.4    -0.2      0.3    -5.1    -1.1    -0.3      0.1      0.8     1.6
Capital Expenditure                               3.2      5.5     7.4     9.2    10.1      8.1     8.1      8.0     8.0
Net Foreign Financing (excl Grants)               2.2      6.6     3.6     5.2      5.2     4.4     5.0



ANNEX IV
CAS TABLE 4 Cot'd
.  .... ...u ".0   X.
Monetary indicators (in fiscal years)
M2/GDP                                            6.7     6.8     7.6     7.8      7.7     8.2
Growth of M2 (%)                                124.3    57.0    46.7    53.4    41.5    21.9
Private Sector Credit/
Total Credit (%)                            61.4    88.5    89.3    70.0    80.9    93.2
Price Indices (1991 = 100)
Merchandise Export Price Index                  181.7   108.2   105.8    94.3    94.0   107.8   113.4   119.0   124.8
Merchandise Import Price Index                   92.8    95.1    98.9   102.1   104.6   106.6   110.0   113.2   116.5
Merchandise Terms of Trade Index                195.7   113.7   106.9    92.4    89.8   101.1   103.1   105.0   107.1
Real Effective Exchange Rate                    207.1   179.5   112.9    91.7    90.7       ..      ..
Real Interest Rates (using rediscount rate)     -35.8     1.8    10.8     0.7      4.4      ..      ..
CPI (Kampala)                                    48.3    70.3    87.5   124.4   159.7   175.0   187.8   197.2   207.0
Change in CPI                                   130.5    45.4    24.6    42.1    28.4      9.6     7.3     5.0      5.0
Change in GDP Deflator                          116.3    44.2    24.0    46.8    32.9      9.6     7.3    5.0       5.0



ANNEX IV
UGANDA                                                                                                          CAS TABLE 5
KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
..
Debt and Debt Service Indicators (in US$ millios - infiscal years)
Total DOD (imci IMF)                              1903    2202    2478    2648    2643    2834    3095    3345    3582
Total Disbursements (incl IMF)                     305      334     303      218     260      292     276      258     266
Total Debt Service Due (incl IMF)                  240      197     188      245     171      162      148     159      175
Stock of Arrears                                    95      150     378      644     280      232
DOD/Exports GNFS                                  626.0   896.2  1245.7  1357.4  1282.2   972.3   891.0   844.5   813.9
DOD/GDP at MP                                     36.0    50.4    74.9    93.6    81.7    70.3    71.9    73.0    71.9
DS/Exports GNFS                                   78.8    80.2    94.3   125.8    83.1    55.6    42.7    40.1    39.7
IBRD/IDA DS/Total DS                               5.2      6.6      8.0     7.7    12.3    14.5    18.0    16.8    15.5
IBRD/IDA DS/Exports GNFS                           4.1      5.3     7.5      9.7    10.2      8. 1    7.7      6.7      6.1
IBRD/IDA Portfolio Share                          35.2    38.1    41.9    43.8    49.5    52.8    54.3    55.8    56.8    .
~~~~~~.ip
MIGA Guarantees - US$ m (in calendar years)          0        0       0       10      40        5
Note: US$40 m in 1993 is a commitment only pending completion of specific requirements.



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
UGANDA                                                                        CAS TABLE 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Dmber 31, 1993)
Thirty (30) credits fuly disbursed:              761.46
Cr.14340 1984  Uganda  TAS I                        15.0    0.0    (22.0)             2        2
Cr.15390 198S  Uganda  Agricutiura Developmeawt    10.00   1.50     (11.7)            2        2
Cr.15600 1985  Uganda  Second Power               28.80   0.62      (34.6)             1       2
Cr.lS610 198S  Uganda  Petrolewm Exploration Pro    5.10   1.41     (1.S)              1       2
Cr.18030 1987  Uganda  Fourth Highway              18.00   1.84      S.7               1       2
Cr.18240 1987  Uganda Forstry Rehabiliton          13.00   1.16      6.6              3        3
Cr.18690 1988  Uganda  South West Ag. Rehab.       10.00   6.35      59.4             2        2
Cr.18930 1988  Uganda  Sugar Rehabtion            24.90   6.52       27.8              1       2
Cr.19340 1988  Uganda Heath Rec.                  42.50   14.03      28.7             2        2
Cr.19510 1988  Uganda Tech. Asst. m                18.00   0.62     (9.3)             1        2
Cr. 19620 1989  Uganda  Publc Enterprises         1S.00   S.39       2.S              3        3
Cr.19650 1989  Uganda  Education IV               22.00   6.05       23.6             2        2
Cr.19910 1989  Uganda  Telecom U                  52.30    9.4       17.6             2        2
Cr.20880 1990  Ugand  Poverty & Soc. Costs         28.0    9A        19.3             2        2
Cr.21240 1990  Uganda Water Supply II              60.0   56.5       90.2             1        2
Cr.21760 1991  Uganda  Livestock                   21.0   20.2       78.7             2        3
Cr.21900 1991  Uganda  Ag. Sector Adj. Credit      100.0   34.8      47.S             1        2
Cr.22060 1991  Uganda  Urban 1                     28.7   22.3       52.4              1       2
Cr.22680 1991  Uganda  Power m                     125.0  110.7      84.1             1        2
Cr.23140 1992  Uganda  SAC I                       125.0   27.1      33.6             2        2
Cr.23150 1992  Uganda  Entrpris Developmen         65.6   64.6       41.8             3        3
Cr.23620 1992  Uganda  NorthernReconsuct.          71.2   67.1      (1.S)             1        2
Cr.24180 1993  Uganda  Econ. & Financial Mgt.      29.0   22.6    (318.1)             2        2
Cr.24240 1993  Uganda  Agric. Extension Prog.       15.8   13.8     100.0              1       1
Cr.24460 1993  Uganda  Agric. Res. & Trg.          25.0   23.6       0.0               1       1
Cr.24930 1993  Uganda  Primary Educ.               52.6   48.2       0.0              1        1
Cr.24960 1993  Uganda  Financial Sect Adj. Cr.     100.0   99.0     100.0             2        2
Tota                       8.40 1882.99 674.67
of which repaid           8.40   34.84
Total held by Bank & IDA        1848.15
Amount sold     8.32
of which repaid 8.32
TOTAL Undlsbursed                        674.67



- 74 -
ANNX IV
UGANDA                                                                        CAS TABLE. 7
STATEMENT OF IO7C INVETMENT
(As of December 31, 1993)
1993        AEP-Clovergem       Canning Preserv & Process            0.85         0.00        0.85
1993        AEF-NGE-GE          Canning Presrv & Process             0.65         0.00        0.65
1994        AEF-SKYBLUE    Hotels & Restaurants                      0.51         0.00        0.51
1985,1993   DFCU                Development Finance Companies        0.00         0.98        0.98
1993        JUBILEE                                                  0.00         0.10        0.10
1965        MULCO               Spinnig, Weaving & Finshing          4.32         0.71        5.03
1984        TAMTECO            Mfg of Food Produce NEC                1.62        0.00        1.62
1972        TPS                Tourism Services                       1.11        0.00        1.11
1984        Uganda Sugar       Cocoa Chocolates, Sugar               8.00         0.00        8.00
1985        Uganda Tea          Food Products NEC                    2.81         0.00        2.81
Total gross commitments                                 19.87        1.79       21.66
Less: Repayments, cancellations,
-.xchange adjudments,
terminations and sales                               9.16        0.71         9.87
Total Commitments now held by IFC:                      10.71        1.08        11.79
Total Undisbursed                                        2.01        0.00        2.01
Tota Outstanding IFC                                     8.70        1.08        9.78



- 75-
UGANDA                                                                        ANNEX V
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IlDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1993)
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----             - -- -
hirty (30) credits fully disbursed,                                             761.46
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans/Credits a/
Cr. 12520     1982      Uganda       Reconstruction Cr. I                        70.00
Cr. 13280      1983      Uganda      Agdc. RAsab.                                 66.17
Cr. 14740      1984     Uganda       Reostruction M                              50.00
Cr.A0340       1988     Uganda       Economic Recovery Credit                     24.00
Cr. 18440      1988     Uganda       Economic Recovwry Crodit                     65.00
Cr. 18441      1989     Uganda       Economic Recovery Crodit                      1.70
Cr. 18442     1989      Uganda       Economic Recovery Credit                    25.00
Cr.A0341       1990     Uganda       Economic Recovery Credit                     12.80
Cr. 18443      1990     Uganda       Economic Recovay Credit                       1.50
Cr.20871       1991     Uganda       Economic Recovey 11                           2.00
Cr.20872       1992     Uganda       Economic Recovery n                           1.60
Cr.23141       1993      Uganda      SAC I                                         1.40
Cr.20870       1990     Uganda       Economic Recovety Credit                    125.00
Cr.14340       1984     Uganda       TAS n                                        15.00
Cr.15390       1985     Uganda       Agricultual Development                      10.00     1.50
Ct. 15600     1985      Uganda       Second Power                                 28.80     0.62
Cr.lS610      1985      Uganda       Petrleum Exploration Prom                     5.10     1.41
Cr. 18030     1987      Uganda       Fourth Highway                               18.00     1.84
Ct. 18240     1987      Uganda       Forestry Rehabitation                        13.00     1.16
Cr.18690       1988     Uganda       South West Ag. Rehab.                        10.00     6.35
Cr.18930       1988     Uganda       Sugar RAabgiltat                             24.90     6.52
Cr.19340       1988     Uganda       Health Roc.                                 42.50     14.03
Cr.19510      1988      Uganda       Tech. mAt. M                                 18.00     0.62
Cr.19620       1989     Uganda       Publi  terprises                             15.00     5.39
Cr.19650       1989     Uganda       Educatlon IV                                22.00      6.0S
Cr.19910       1989     Uganda       Telecom U                                   52.30      9.39
Cr.20880       1990      Uganda      Poverty & Soc. Costa                         28.00     9.40
Cr.21240       1990     Uganda       Water Supply n                               60.00    56.47
Cr.21760       1991      Uganda      Livesock                                     21.00    20.21
Cr.21900 b/    1991      Uganda      Ag. Sector Adj. Credit                      100.00    34.76
Cr.22060       1991      Uganda      Urban I                                      28.70    22.29
Cr.22680       1991      Uganda      Power m                                     125.00    110.70
Cr.23140 b/    1992      Uganda      SAC I                                       125.00    27.10
Cr.23150       1992      Uganda      Enterprise Deveopment                        65.60    64.55
Cr.23620       1992      Uganda      Northern Recontruct.                         71.20    67.05
Cr.24180       1993      Uganda      Econ. & Financial Mngemet                    29.00    22.60
Cr.24240       1993      Uganda      Agric. Extension Prog.                       15.79    13.84
Cr.24460       1993      Uganda      Agric. Res. & Trg.                           25.04    23.58
Cr.24930       1993      Uganda      Primary Educ.                                52.60    48.24
Cr.24960 b/    1993      Uganda      Fnan    Sector Adjustment Cr.               100.00    99.00
Total                                           8.40   1882.99    674.67
of which repaid                                8.40    3.84
Tota held by Bank A IDA                                1848.15
Amount sold      8.32
of which repaid 8.32
TOTAL Undisbursed                                                674.67
a/ Approved after FY8O.
b/ SAL, SECAL or Program Lon/Credit.



- 76 -                          ANNEX VI
UGANDA: DISBURSEMENT ISSUFS
1.    As of end-December 1993, IDA's portfolio of disbursing projects in Uganda consisted
of twenty-seven projects for a total commitment of US$1.09 billion, of which US$674.7 million
was undisbursed. Over the last five fiscal years, the amount of undisbursed balances increased
at an average rate of 17 percent per annumr, from US$301 million in FY89 to US$564 million
in FY93. This was due mainly to a rapid growth in lending. Disbursements averaged only
US$68 million per annum during this period, with a peak of US$84 million in FY91. Thus, the
disbursement factor (ratio of disbursements during the fiscal year to cumulative net undisoursed
balance at the beginning of the fiscal year) deteriorated, falling from an average of about 20
percent in FY89-FY91 to about 14.6 percent in FY92 and FY93. In the past couple of years,
problem projects increased from about 16 percent to 19 percent of the portfolio.
2.    The portfolio's modest disbursement performance is due in part to its relatively young
age structure, an average age of 4.8 years. However, as suggested by the disbursement
performance and the number of problem projects, there are also other factors which have
undermined implementation. These include ineffective project management and coordination, a
lack of counterpart funds, delays in the procurement of goods and services required under the
projects, difficulties with the use of Special Accounts and with submitting disbursement
applications, and poor financial management and compliance with audit requirements.
3.    A Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in March 1994, organized and carried
out jointly by the Government and the Bank, addressed the main issues affecting project
implementation. Action plans for addressing these issues were agreed and will be implemented
over the next several months. An important aspect of these plans is a major effort to improve
the Government's capacity to monitor implementation of projects and take corrective actions when
problems arise. Consultants are to be engaged to provide training in project implementation and
monitoring, and to recommend organizational structures and procedures for establishing an
effective monitoring system. In addition, the Public Expenditure Review (PER) currently
underway will agree on the "core" development projects to be included in the FY95 development
budget. These projects will receive full counterpart funding and will be protected from budget
cuts, should those become necessary. Moreover, on the basis of recent efforts to improve
implementation, culminating in the PER and the CPPR, IDA has initiated a comprehensive
restructring of its portfolio of projects. The remaining problem projects, including those
categorized as non-core in the PER, are currently under intensive review and discussion with the
Government with a view to restructuring or canceling them.



