Report No. PIC1046
Project Name        Uganda-Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II)
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Non-Sectoral
Project ID                UGPA2967
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Date PID Prepared         April 29, 1994
Projected Board Date      May 10, 1994
Background
1.   With a per capita income of only around US$180 in 1993, Uganda
ranks among the poorest countries in the world. Poverty in Uganda is
largely the consequence of civil war, political instability and economic
mismanagement. The country has good growth potential, however. It is
blessed with fertile soils and a good climate. Agriculture is the
mainstay of the economy: it accounts for more than 50 percent of GDP,
about 75 percent of export earnings and around 80 percent of employment,
and it provides inputs for a number of manufacturing and processing
industries. Smallholders are the backbone of Uganda agriculture; over
80 percent of the farmers cultivate less than two hectares. The country
is predominantly rural, with only 11 percent of the population living in
towns and cities. Industry has grown rapidly in the past six years but
its contribution to GDP is only around 12 percent. Manufacturing
accounts for about half of industrial output.
Adjustment Program
2.   The Government of Uganda embarked upon an Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) in May 1987. The basic objective of the program was to bring
about rapid and sustained improvements in the standard of living of the
average Ugandan. This objective was to be achieved through
stabilization and structural reforms aimed at: (i) restoring internal
and external financial stability and lowering inflation through prudent
fiscal and monetary management; (ii) creating the conditions for rapid
and sustained growth through deregulation of the incentive and
regulatory framework; and (iii) developing human capital through
investments in education, health and other social services.
3.   The Government has scored a number of successes in reforming the
economy. First, although requiring a long time price stability has been
achieved. Relatively low inflation has been accompanied by a fairly
stable exchange rate, although after the introduction of inter-bank
market for foreign exchange in November 1993 the Ugandan shilling has
experienced two temporary appreciation episodes. Secondly, the
Government has deregulated the incentive and regulatory framework
considerably. Thirdly, it has begun to reform public sector
institutions: the size of the civil service and the military has been
reduced; there is better control over the civil service payroll; and a
few public enterprises have been sold and many more put on the market.
The supply response to the reforms has been encouraging: the downward



slide in the production of coffee, the main export, has been halted;
nontraditional exports have been growing rapidly but from a very low
base. Between FY88 and FY93 real GDP grew at an average annual rate of
5.7 percent, or 2.8 percent in per capita terms.
4.   In spite of these achievements Uganda faces formidable hurdles that
must be overcome before there can be any assurance of rapid and
sustained economic growth and poverty reduction. First, institutional
capacity to guide social and economic development needs strengthening.
Secondly, agricultural technology and knowhow currently in use requires
substantial improvement. Thirdly, the human capital base is very
deficient. Fourthly, a strong financial system capable of mobilizing and
allocating savings is lacking. Fifthly, external payments viability
remains a distant prospect to accelerate growth. Finally, Uganda needs
a much stronger private investment response. The challenge for the
Government, the Bank and other donors is to systematically remedy these
deficiencies.
The Credit
5.   The objective of the proposed credit is to reduce poverty through
accelerated economic growth and rapid human resource development.
Accordingly, it will assist the Government to achieve a number of key
objectives. First, it will support further deregulation of the economy
involving the removal of the remaining barriers to trade and investment
in the coffee subsector and liberalization of the cotton industry. The
latter will benefit a large number of small-scale producers, including
the poorest regions of the country. Second, the credit will support
actions aimed at completing the divestiture of the Departed Asians'
Custodian Board properties. Third, it will assist the Government to
step up domestic revenue generation which is still only around 8 percent
of GDP. Fourth, the credit will help to deepen the Government's efforts
aimed at prioritizing both recurrent expenditure and development
expenditure. Fifth, it will support further measures directed at
downsizing the civil service and raising its efficiency.
6.   The Credit amount is SDR 57.8 million (US$80 million equivalent).
The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches of approximately equal
amounts. The proceeds of the Credit will be used to finance general
imports, subject to a negative list, and will be disbursed on a
reimbursement basis. Additional import financing for the program to be
supported by the Credit is expected from the EC, African Development
Fund, ODA (UK), the Netherlands, Japan and USAID.
Poverty Category
7.   Poverty-focused operation
Environmental Aspects
8.   Not Applicable
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
- 2-



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



