Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2608 UG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 22, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2608 UG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 12, 1994, (hereafter called the Letter of Development Policy) from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed
to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower
by making the Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions
      of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
      obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BOU" means the Bank of Uganda, the Borrower's central Bank;
      (b)   "DAPCB" means the Departed Asians' Property Custodian Board;
      (c)   "1982 Act" means the Expropriated Properties Act of 1982;
      (d)   "UIA" means Uganda Investment Authority established pursuant to
Section 3.07 of the Investment Code, 1991;
      (e)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical
Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986); and
      (f)   "Core Project" means the Borrower's projects listed in the
attachment to the Letter of Development Policy.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 57,800,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
Page  3
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi- annual
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
2004 and ending May 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) BOU is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower
hereby entrusts BOU with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and
other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable
be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not
less than $2,500 equivalent.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule
Page  4
3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expen- ditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expen- ditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  5
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi- tional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement:    (a)    the Borrower
has furnished to the Association evidence of promulgation of regulations
under the Uganda Coffee Development Authority Statute, 1991, as amended,
providing, inter alia, for the registration of coffee exporters and quality
control of coffee; and
      (b)   the Borrower has entered into a contract satisfactory to the
Association with consultants for carrying out the study to review the
Investment Code and the operations of UIA.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower's Minister responsible for Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala, Uganda
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINSEC                    61170
                  Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                        By /s/ T. S. Mayanja Nkangi
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the
Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                      worked
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                      nuclear reactors
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than
$2,500 equivalent;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
Page  7
    (g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to
SDR14,500,000.00 for petroleum products.
3.  Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of
goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be permitted by
the Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify.
4.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR28,900,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the macro-economic
policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the
Program; and (c) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this agreement
have been taken.
5.  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress
achieved is not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the
Borrower shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                                Procurement
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner
    of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
    to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
    prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at
    least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
                Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
                journal of wide international circulation; or
        (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries and
                territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                potential suppliers of the goods required."
    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
    bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
    international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
    (d)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
Page  8
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures,
provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Association; and
    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial
practice, provided that such practice shall have been found acceptable by
the Association.
3.  Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the
Association, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
5.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.  The Borrower shall appoint duly qualified agencies satisfactory to the
Association, to carry out pre-shipment inspection of goods to be procured
under the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
provided, however, that such inspection shall not cover price verification
of goods procured under international competitive bidding pursuant to
paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                 Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (c) of
                       Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.  The Borrower has abolished the floor price mechanism for coffee exports.
2.  The Borrower has caused all necessary measures to be taken in accordance
with paragraph 20 of the Letter of Development Policy, to facilitate the
transfer, by way of outright sale, lease, management, or restructuring, of
ginneries with installed capacity of at least 100,000 bales to creditworthy
and viable operators.
3.  The Borrower has, in consultation with the Association, reviewed
Page  9
recommendations of the study it will have commissioned on the Investment
Code and the operations of UIA.
4.  The Borrower has taken all necessary measures pursuant to paragraphs 24
and 25 of the Letter of Development Policy, to offer for sale (taking market
conditions into account) all properties covered by the 1982 Act not claimed
by their owners or for which compensation claims are pending.
5.  The Borrower (a) has released all FY93/94 budgeted allocations for high
priority recurrent programs and for Core Projects; and (b) has, for FY94/95,
made satisfactory budgetary allocations for its wage bill, nonwage recurrent
expenditure and development expenditure.
6.  The Borrower has (a) continued to make progress in replacing transport
and housing benefits with cash payments, (b) made satisfactory progress
towards the disposal of pool houses and personal-use and pool vehicles for
civil servants other than Judges, Ministers, Deputy Ministers and those
entitled to institutional houses, and (c) with respect to its Ministries
responsible for agriculture, trade, works and natural resources, has (i)
eliminated their respective non-core functions, and (ii) implemented the
respective Ministry's first stage staffing rationalization.
