 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14684

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/07/2015

               Country: Costa Rica
             Project ID: P093384                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Mainstreaming                 Project Costs (US$M):                     90.3                125.2
                         Market-based
                         Instruments For
                         Environmental
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:            L7388                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      30.0                 30.0
      Sector Board:      Environment                  Cofinancing (US$M):                      12.5                 12.7

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 06/08/2006
                                                                  Closing Date:          07/31/2012          03/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Forestry (70%); General water sanitation and flood protection sector (30%)
          Theme(s):        Environmental policies and institutions (23% - P); Water resource management (22% - P);
                           Biodiversity (22% - P); Legal institutions for a market economy (22% - P); Climate change
                           (11% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
John Redwood               Christopher David      Christopher David          IEGPS1
                           Nelson                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 To enhance the conservation of globally significant biodiversity in the territory of the Borrower and ensure such
biodiversity's long-term sustainability by supporting the development and implementation of market-based instruments
to promote forest conservation in buffer zones of protected areas and biological corridors connecting them. (Loan
Agreement (LA) Schedule 1, pg. 6)

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, para. 19, pg. 7) the above formulation from the LA was also this
project's Global Environmental Objective (GEO).

The project development objective (PDO) was stated in the PAD (para. 18, pg. 6) in different -- and more general --
terms as follows: "to enhance the provision of environmental services of national and global significance and assist in
securing their long-term sustainability by mainstreaming market-based instruments for environmental management."

Per normal IEG practice, the present assessment would be based on the achievement of the LA formulation of the
PDO, which in this case is more precise and readily evaluable than the PAD version. IEG does not assess the
achievement of the GEO. Exceptionally in this case, as the GEO rather than the PDO was mistakenly identified in the
LA as the PDO, IEG's assessment will be based on the PAD version of the PDO as stated in the preceding paragraph,
even though the incorrect statement of the PDO in the LA was never corrected by the Bank. For purposes of
completeness, the GEO (i.e., uncorrected LA version of the PDO is also assessed).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
 No

 c. Components:
   1. Developing and implementing sustainable financing mechanisms (Appraisal cost -- US$ 16.5 million; actual cost:
US$ 18.0 million).
       A. Promoting watershed conservation via application of the new water tariff -- to mainstream sustainable natural
resource management (NRM) by instituting water tariffs to finance, inter alia, upstream water conservation, with 25
percent of the income generated channeled to the Payment for Environmental Services (PES, or PSA in Spanish --
hereafter PES) program.
       B. Implementing and capitalizing the Trust Fund for Sustainable Biodiversity Conservation (FBS) -- to help
strengthen and capitalize the FBS, which was established by the project, to enable it to provide sustainable long-term
financing for areas of globally significant biodiversity.
        C. Accessing global carbon markets -- to support FONAFIFO's (the National Forestry Financing Fund's) efforts
to develop carbon sequestration projects to finance forest regeneration in degraded areas that the PES program had
been unable to support given their high up-front cost.
       D. Developing voluntary markets for biodiversity conservation -- to support a more systematic approach to
seeking funding from voluntary or 'retail' markets and to help capitalize the FBS.

According to the PAD (Annex 4, para 4), key inputs to deliver this component would be: (i) providing the necessary
resources to FONAFIFO to implement project activities; (ii) providing technical assistance in developing and
implementing operational rules for using the resources produce by the water tariff decree efficiently and effectively;
(iii) providing legal assistance to operating the FBS; (iv) conducting market research and product development to
widen the range of retail conservation products; and (v) commissioning studies, workshops and seminars to
strengthen capacity and raise awareness. Incremental resources from GEF would be used primarily to capitalize the
FBS (US$ 7.5 million), which would be matched by contributions from the Government. Incremental resources from
the GEF would also be used to support the development of other funding mechanisms in areas that generate global
benefits. However, these funding mechanisms were not identified.

   2. Scaling-up Environmental Services Program (Appraisal cost: US$ 72.8 million; actual cost: US$ 107.0 million).
       A. Strengthening capacity to implement the expanded PES program -- to support the strengthening of
FONAFIFO's technical capacity to implement the expanded program, while ensuring that FONAFIFO's recurring
overhead costs remained at less than 10 percent.
       B. Increasing the efficiency of environmental services contracting -- to support the development and introduction
of a more targeted, differentiated approach in which the land uses promoted, the eligibility criteria, and the payments
offered were set on a region-by-region basis in light of local needs and conditions.
       C. Strengthening technical monitoring capacity -- to support the strengthening and/or establishment of
appropriate systems to monitor the PES program's effectiveness in generating the desired environmental services in
cooperation with other institutions.
       D. Contracting landholders to provide environmental services -- to finance environmental service contracts with
participating landholders.

According to the PAD (Annex 4, paras. 20-21, pp. 42-43), this component would support FONAFIFO and other
institutions (such as the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Ocean's (MINAE's) Water Department) to implement the
environmental service program. In addition, financial resources were expected to be provided by the water tariff, and
other new (unspecified) financing sources would allow for an expansion of the program beyond the roughly 230,000
hectares it was expected to cover by the end of 2006. In addition to financing environmental service contracts, which
was expected to consume nearly 90% of the resources for this component, key outputs were to include: (i)
strengthened capacity of the key institutions including FONAFIFO together with NGOs working to implement the PES
program; and (ii) a more effective program. Key inputs were to include: (i) workshops and seminars to strengthen the
capacity of FONAFIFO and other institutions; (ii) incremental increase of equipment; and (iii) studies and technical
assistance in strengthening monitoring capacity. Incremental resources from the GEF would be used to strengthen
FONAFIFO's capacity to issue and monitor environmental service contracts that generate global benefits, with
emphasis on enhancing monitoring of activities that specifically support biodiversity conservation in priority areas.

   3. Removing Barriers for Small Landholders' Participation in the PES program (Appraisal cost: US$ 1,0 million;
actual cost -- US$ 0.2 million).
      A. Strengthening the incorporation of low-income landholders in the PES program -- to support efforts to remove
obstacles that could impede participation by poor landholders, including the high transportation costs of dealing with
many individual many individual medium and small landholders and the lack of cadastral plans.
      B. Piloting improved watershed management in low-income areas -- to develop and implement watershed
management plans in three pilot areas with poverty rates.
      C. Monitoring social and economic impacts -- to strengthen monitoring systems related to measuring
socio-economic impacts of the program, with a particular emphasis on the poor as well as small and medium-sized
landholders.

According to the PAD (Annex 4, para. 31, pg. 45), key inputs for this component include: (i) the necessary resources
to increase outreach to small landholders; (ii) a robust promotional campaign; and (iii) capacity building activities.
Incremental resource from GEF would be used to enhance participation of the marginalized groups that generate
global biodiversity benefits.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost. Total project cost increased by 38 percent over the appraisal estimate due to the contribution of
additional resources, primarily for Component 2, by the Borrower (see below).

Financing . The project was co-financed by a GEF grant of US$ 10 million, which was fully disbursed, and by a grant of
US$ 2.7 million (5 percent greater than the initial estimate of US$ 2.5 million) from the Biocarbon Fund. Annex 6 of the
ICR ("Summary of the Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR," pg. 10) also mentions US$ 8.5 million in
revenues from other donors, including Germany's KfW, although this is not reported in the Project Financing table in
Annex 1 or in the text of ICR. The project team later clarified to IEG that these US$ 8.5 million in additional resources
were not used to implement the Bank-supported project itself but rather were an additional allocation to the Borrower's
Trust Fund for Sustainable Bioidiversity Conservation (FBS), which had been established under the project.

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower's planned contribution was US$ 47.56 million, but the actual contribution
increased significantly (by 79 percent) to US$ 85.4 million. This increase was primarily due to additional domestic
financing for the PES program raised by the Government through the fuel tax and water tariffs.

Dates. Project start-up was delayed by two years, with effectiveness scheduled for February 28, 2007 not occurring
until July 31, 2008. This delay was due in part to Costa Rica's lengthy legislative loan approval procedures -- as the
legal documents were not signed until May 2007, nearly a year after Board approval -- and in part to the need to allow
for the "sustainable and regular capitalization" of the PES, according to the ICR . As a result, the closing date was
extended to March 31, 2014, or by 20 months, at the time of the project's first Level II restructuring on June 28, 2012,
which also included changes to some of the initial results indicators and the reallocation of funds. According to the
ICR (basin data Section H) the first restructuring was needed in order" to accommodate the project's two-year delay
in effectiveness to allow for sustainable and regular capitalization of Costa Rica's PES program," and the second,
which occurred on March 10, 2014 was for reallocation of remaining uncommitted GEF grant proceeds for further
capitalization of FBS.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
The enhancement and sustainability of globally significant biodiversity in Costa Rica continue to be important
objectives both for the country and the Bank. Environment and land management is one of four key areas in the Costa
Rican National Development Plan for 2011-2014, in relation to which biodiversity management is one of five key
components, together with carbon neutrality and climate change, renewable energy, water resources, waste
management, and land use planning. As concerns biodiversity management, more specifically, the Plan (pg. 81)
states that "the country has been a pioneer and innovative with respect to conservation and the green agenda. The
present administration sustains this long-term commitment and assumes as its principal objective in this regard the
strengthening and consolidation of the results achieved to date." The Bank's most recent Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS), issued in June 2011, contains a specific cluster -- one of three altogether -- on supporting the
environment and disaster risk management. According to this document (para. 76, pg. 19), the Bank's work under this
cluster "will be geared to support the long-term country goal of reaching carbon neutrality by 2021" and the specific
actions in this regard would include: (i) to continue to support the Government's commitment to include more land
under the PES program,"which compensates owners of forest and forestlands for carrying out conservation, natural
regeneration and reforestation;" and (ii) to contribute to the capitalization of the Biodiversity Endowment Fund through
a GEF facility already approved." The present IBRD project and associated GEF grant are specifically mentioned in
this context (CPS, para. 79, pg. 20). Thus, the relevance of the project's objectives is High.

 b. Relevance of Design:
There were significant shortcomings in project design both in relation to its PDO as stated in the PAD and its GEO.
This is clearly acknowledged in the ICR (para. 15, pp 6-7), which observes that "the project was primarily designed as
a forestry-based intervention that provided funding for promoting afforestation, forest protection, and the development
of social inclusion in the PES program." Elsewhere (para. 39, pg. 11), the ICR recognizes that "the project design did
not fully embrace the strict concept of a PES, where users of the environmental service significantly fund the
ecosystem conservation by compensating landholders/service providers. As a result, the project failed to address...the
need to draw a greater proportion of funding from service users for future sustainability." According to the PAD (para.
4, pg. 2),"Costa Rica's PES program is widely considered the most successful application of the environmental
services approach worldwide" and "currently compensates landholders for three conservation activities (modalities):
(a) natural forest conservation; (b) reforestation (mainly through sustainable plantations); and (c) agro-forestry which
was introduced in 2003." However, in the words of the ICR, project design "failed to include concrete actions to
directly promote and improve biodiversity conservation and put in place adequate mechanisms to measure the impact
of the PES program on conservation on the ground" (see also section 10 on Monitoring and Evaluation below). It goes
on to state that "with more than 85 percent of the GEF grant allocated to capitalize the PES program, the project
design assumed that, by default, successful implementation of the PES program and guaranteeing its financial
sustainability would be sufficient to ensure ensure improved biodiversity conservation." While there are a number of
publications that support this assumption, others disagree with the direct causal link assumption of payment for
ecosystem services and improved [biodiversity] conservation." In short, it cannot be assumed that afforestation and
reforestation resulting from the PES program, important as they may be for other environmental reasons (e.g.,
watershed protection, soil conservation, carbon sequestration), also automatically translate into increased biodiversity
conservation as well. The ICR (para. 37, pg. 10) concludes that this was a complex operation that did not take all
country challenges sufficiently into account. For the reasons mentioned above, relevance of project design is thus
rated Modest.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   In accordance with the PAD, the project had two objectives: (i) to enhance the provision of environmental services
of national and global significance; and (ii) to assist in securing their long-term sustainability by mainstreaming
market-based instruments for environmental management. Each one will be considered in turn:

Enhance the provision of environmental services of national and global significance .
rated: Substantial

Outputs

At the end of the project 296,904 hectares (ha) of land was maintained annually under PES contracts providing
environmental services of both local and/or global importance. This exceeded the original target (288,000 ha), but
not the formally revised (2012) one (310,000 ha), thus was only partly achieved. In addition, the project also failed to
achieve the revised target for newly-contracted area financed annually by funding from service users (16,904 ha
versus a target of 35,000 ha). However, it exceeded both the original (2,850) and revised (3,500) target for the number
of small and medium-sized landholders (less than 100 hectare farms) participating on the PES program. The 2008
baseline values were also exceeded in all three cases, particularly with respect to the number of small and
medium-sized landholders participating in the program which nearly doubled.

Outcome

While two of the three revised output indicators were not fully achieved, on the whole the project expanded the
provision of environmental services of national and/or global significance through the PES program.

Assist in securing the long -term sustainability of the provision of environmental services of national and global
significance by mainstreaming market -based instruments for environmental management .
rated: Substantial

Outputs

The project achieved substantial capitalization of the Trust Fund for Sustainable Biodiversity (FBS), which provides
the funding required for the PES program and its sustainablility. In addition to the Bank loan and GEF grant, this was
supported by substantial contributions from the Costa Rican Government derived from revenues generated from fuel
levies and water tariffs. The ICR (para. 40, pg. 11) affirms, moreover, that Bank intervention was "key in supporting
the program while sustaining funding was put in place. Without the Bank's loan, it would have been very difficult (i) for
the GoCR to provide leveraging funding and maintain the PES program until the FBS was fully established, and (ii) to
provide coverage for the areas established by government policy."

Outcome

The project appears to have contributed substantially in terms of assisting to secure the long-term sustainability of the
provision of environmental services by capitalizing the FBS at a critical point in time. The ICR argues that the FBS is
a market-based instrument, as is the water tariff, which were successfully applied. However, it appears to have been
less successful in terms of accessing global carbon markets or developing markets for biodiversity conservation which
were also mentioned in the PAD (para. 21, pp. 7-8). This notwithstanding, project achievements in this regard were
considerable.
In accordance with the Loan Agreement, the PDO (in fact the GEO) was" to enhance the conservation of globally
significant biodiversity in the territory of the Borrower and ensure such biodiversity's long-term sustainability by
supporting the development and implementation of market-based instruments to promote forest conservation in buffer
zones of protected areas and biological corridors connecting them." For purposes of assessing project efficacy, this
can be broken down as follows:

(i) to enhance conservation of globally significant biodiversity in the Borrower's territory; and

(ii) to ensure long-term sustainability of such biodiversity by supporting the development and implementation of
market-based instruments to promote forest conservation in buffer zones of protected areas and biological corridors
connecting them.

The outputs and outcomes in relation to each of these objectives will be considered in turn:

Enhancement of the conservation of globally significant biodiversity .
rated: Modest

Outputs.

At project completion, 296,906 hectares (ha) of land were reportedly "maintained annually under PES contracts
providing environmental services of both local and/or global importance." This exceeded the project's initial target of
288,000 ha but fell short of the formally revised target (at the time of the first restructuring in June 2012) of 310,000
ha. According to the ICR (Results Framework Analysis). This shortfall was due to "limited enrollments in the last two
years" of project implementation. At project completion, moreover, 77 percent of PES program resources were placed
in PES contracts, This exceeded the revised target of 75 percent, which had been reduced from the original target of
90 percent at the time the project was restructured. PES activities were also integrated through participatory planning
activities in two micro-watersheds, compared with the initial (unrevised) target of "at least three" micro-watersheds.

Outcomes.

Despite having fully or partially met some of its original and/or revised output targets, it is not clear that the project was
able to fully achieve its objective of enhancing globally significant biodiversity conservation. The main reason why this
could not be determined was that no adequate biodiversity baseline was established at the outset of the project (and
still had not been determined by project closing) to enable a direct assessment of its contribution in this regard. As
the ICR (Table 2, pg. 3) observes, for this reason, one of the initial key project outcome indicators (and the one most
directly associated with this objective), "effective biodiversity conservation in globally significant areas measured by
vegetation cover and indicator species of conservation interest," was dropped at the time of the first restructuring. No
alternative method of measuring the impact of PES on conservation of biodiversity was put in place. Accordingly, the
ICR (para. 16, pg, 7) recognizes that there was no means "to provide physical evidence that the PES program was
having an actual impact on conservation." Even though the area in productive landscapes (i.e., areas where
agricultural or other productive activities were occurring) in the buffer zones of protected areas and biological corridors
increased (although it fell considerably short of the unrevised appraisal target), due to the absence of evidence
regarding the project's outcome in terms of globally significant biodiversity conservation,

Ensuring the long-term sustainability of globally significant biodiversity by supporting the development and
implementation of market -based instruments [MBIs] to promote forest conservation in buffer zones of protected
areas and biodiversity corridors connecting them .
rated: Modest

Outputs.

At project completion, according to the figures presented in the Results Framework Analysis of the ICR, 146,074 ha of
land located in productive landscapes in the buffer zones of protected areas and biological corridors connecting them
in the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC) are being maintained annually under PES contracts, which require
that this be done for at least 20 years, as compared with an appraisal target of 190,000 ha. In relation to this shortfall,
the ICR observes that "because of the annual nature of most of FONAFIFO's budget and the 5-year length of most of
its contracts, Costa Rica's PSA Program has long suffered from wide fluctuations in the area under conservation."
Here, moreover, the ICR (pg. 3) is contradictory as the main text report, the end-of-project figure for this indicator as
152,506 (instead of 146,074) ha. However, it also observes that, "although this number fluctuated over the project life
span (between approximately 126,000 ha and 176,000 ha), it represents the average area for this indicator." The ICR
likewise notes that this indicator measured implementation of the PES Program in biological corridors, but not in buffer
zones. However, the buffer zone definition used in the project context does not formally exist in Costa Rican
legislation and was not used during project Monitoring and Evaluation (see also section 10 below),

Outcomes

The situation with respect to the assurance of the long-term sustainability of globally significant biodiversity through
the development and implementation of MBIs to promote forest conservation in buffer zones of protected areas and
biodiversity corridors is similar to that regarding its enhancement considered above. In short, because of the lack of an
adequate baseline, the project's outcome cannot be determined. In addition, the ICR observes (para. 25, pg. 8) that,
by the end of the project "the FBS had not yet proven to be an effective new sustainable financing instrument" even
though its implementation was "well underway." Furthermore, the statement in the ICR's section on risk to
development outcome (para. 52, pg. 13) that the PES Program's ability to continue to increase forest cover "is limited
on both financial and political grounds" (see also section 8 below) suggests that the long-term sustainability of the
biodiversity enhanced in the areas benefited under the project may also be at risk over the long run.

It can be observed, finally, that even though IEG does nor rate efficacy with respect to the outcome of GEOs, the ICR
itself (para. 46, pg 12) rated results in this regard as Moderately Unsatisfactory because it was "only partially achieved
due to shortcomings in design, implementation, borrower performance and the quality of M&E." Considering that the
PDO as stated in the Loan Agreement is the GEO, this same ICR rating logically applies to the PDO.

 5. Efficiency:
  According to the PAD (para 56, pg. 21), a detailed economic analysis of the proposed project was "constrained by
the lack of quantitative data on the extent of benefits generated by [PES program] activity." Even though the same
data limitations existed at completion, the ICR attempted an ex-post economic analysis, which is explained in ICR
Annex 3. It estimated the benefits related to areas of existing forests brought under conservation contracts in terms of
avoided deforestation. At project completion, 47,432 ha of forest land had been contracted under the PES program,
and it was assumed that, had this not been the case, 10 percent of this area (or 4,743 ha) would have been
deforested. An analysis of both market and non-market benefits of protected areas undertaken for another
Bank-supported Protected Areas project in Belize concluded that the benefits of primary forest protection net of the
indirect opportunity costs could be estimated at US$ 4,500 per hectare per year in that country. When applied to
Costa Rica, similar benefits associated with protected areas were estimated to be US$ 8,500 per ha. However, it is
not clear from the ICR exactly how this value was determined. Benefit-cost ratios (BCRs) and net present values
(NPVs) were then estimated for four values (US$ 8.500, US$ 4,500, US$ 3,000, and US$ 2,000 per ha per year) at
four different discount rates (2%, 4%, 5% and 10%), and were positive for 14 of the 16 scenarios tested. They only
became negative for the US$ 2,000 per ha per year situation when the higher 5% and 10% discount rates were
applied. No justification is given in the ICR for using such low discount rates, however, and the more conventional 12
percent discount rate would have resulted in less positive estimates, and perhaps even a negative NPV.

After the draft ICR Review was sent to the Global Practice for comment, the GP clarified that the basis for the US$
8,500 per ha figure was a value specifically estimated for Costa Rica's natural capital, including Protected Area, in
2010 in a Bank publication entitled The Changing Wealth of Nations: Measuring Sustainable Development in the New
Millennium. According to this source, "using this value and applying a 12 percent discount rate as suggested by the
IEG review yields US$ 47 million in Net Present Value and 2.75 of Benefit-Cost Ratio."

 Taking these various considerations into account, project efficiency is rated Substantial

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   As the relevance of project objectives is rated High, efficiency and achievement of the PAD PDO objectives
Substantial, but achievement of the LA PDO and relevance of project design and efficiency are rated Modest, the
overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory . The main deficiencies were the different statements of the PDO in
the PAD and the Loan Agreement, which was not corrected in the latter when the project was restructured and, given
this objective, the failure to measure the project's contribution to global biodiversity conservation.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    While the PES program has proven to be an important instrument to increase forest cover, which has indeed
expanded significantly in Costa Rica over the past several decades, the ICR concludes that "its ability to continue
doing so is limited on both financial and political grounds." It likewise observes that the project's sustainability "will
depend on the Government's commitment to provide funding to finance future PES contracts." Even though the
resources presently available to the PES have increased due rising fuel tax revenues, the ICR argues that "current
efforts to promote Costa Rica as a carbon neutral country will in the long run reduce tax revenues as the consumption
of fossil fuels is likely to decrease." In addition, "fiscal resources could be redirected to other concerns given the 52%
of forest cover already achieved." Even though, as the ICR also observes, since the Government is interested in
promoting "green and inclusive growth through mainstreaming sustainable management practices and systems in
productive landscapes," there is an expectation that the PES will continue. However, the above caveats point to risks
to the development outcome being substantial.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Despite the Bank's positive experience under the pioneering previous Ecomarkets I project, there were a
number of quality-at-entry shortcomings. These include the proposal of some unmeasurable performance
indicators and, most importantly, the failure to establish a proper baseline against which project results in terms of
biodiversity conservation could be monitored and evaluated. In addition, there was a clear inconsistency between
the way the PDO was stated in the PAD and in the Loan Agreement. FONAFIFO's capacity was also
overestimated and project risks, including the likelihood of significant start-up delays, which, in fact, occurred,
were underestimated.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The design problems, including the inconsistent statement of the PDO in the Loan Agreement (LA) and the
inadequate M&E system, were not resolved during supervision. This included not correcting the initial lack of a
biodiversity baseline and the decision to drop the associated key performance indicator. Nor was the project
development objective as stated in the LA adjusted, which would have required a level 1 restructuring. In addition,
there were multiple TTLs (5) over the life of the project and the number of supervision missions varied
considerably during the course of project implementation, there being only one between December 2009 and
February 2011. In addition, according to the ICR, eight supervision missions took place between September 2006
and June 2009 without there being a single disbursement of the loan or grant resources. Furthermore, some of the
changes agreed at the time of the MTR (whose actual date is not specifically indicated in the ICR but occurred
only in 2012 at least nine months later than originally expected were not incorporated into the initial restructuring
in June 2012. This was one of the reasons why the second restructuring was required in March 2014, according to
the ICR (para. 57, pg. 14). While the ICR reports that Bank supervision flagged "potential implementation issues
and took corrective measures, but with delays," it did not address the serious quality-at-entry problems. The
reasons for this are not addressed by the ICR.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    While not altogether unanticipated, as this is a common problem in Costa Rica, bureaucratic processes
associated with parliamentary approval of the loan and grant agreements resulted in substantial effectiveness and
start-up delays (i.e., while approved by the Bank in June 2006, they only became effective in July 2008 and no
disbursements were reported until the latter half of 2009). Once the project was underway, however, government
commitment was reportedly strong, and counterpart funding for the program proved to be considerably greater
than anticipated at appraisal due to greater than expected fuel tax revenues, exceeding the FBS capitalization
target set initially.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     FONAFIFO managed the PES program adequately but, according to the ICR (para. 61, pg. 14-15), "had (and
still has) insufficient experience and capacity in implementing biodiversity conservation initiatives, Likewise, many
of the initial issues with the FBS can be traced to the fact that FONAFIFO did not have prior experience in
establishing and managing large Conservation Trust Funds."

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Project M&E was poorly designed from the outset. No biodiversity baseline was established against which
progress toward the project's objective of enhanced conservation could be measured. This resulted in the need to
drop a key indicator -- effective biodiversity conservation in globally significant areas measured by vegetation cover
and indicator species of conservation interest. This indicator was not adequately replaced at the time of the mid-term
review, making it impossible to determine actual project results in this regard. Another key indicator -- improved
efficiency of the PES program, as measured by indices of services generated per dollar -- was dropped because
monitoring it was "challenging" due to the" technical difficulty of quantifying changes in the level of environmental
service provision," according to the ICR (Table 2, pp. 2-3). In addition, the ICR (para. 29, pg. 9) indicates that, while
the indicator framework was satisfactory for FONAFIFO's area of expertise (i..e., the PES program and forest
management), it was clearly inadequate for M&E of biodiversity-related outcomes.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   M&E was likewise poorly implemented by FONAFIFO. According to the ICR (para. 30, pg. 9), "available
information was not assessed in a proper and timely fashion, resulting in delays in improving project implementation."
As observed above, no mechanism for the monitoring and assessment of the project's impact on biodiversity was
established during the project's lifetime, making it impossible to measure project results related to achieving the
project's objective. As a result, together with its poor initial design, implementation of the M&E framework was
characterized, appropriately, by the ICR (para. 28, pg. 9) as "one of the most significant weaknesses of the project."

 c. M&E Utilization:
   M&E utilization for project management and ex-post assessment was similarly inadequate. In the words of the ICR
(para. 30, pg. 9), "combined with the fact that beyond standard PES program data collection and statistical progress
reviews, the project did not make full use of the M&E framework as intended." And, as already noted, M&E could not
be used to assemble evidence of the achievement of the project's outcomes in terms of biodiversity conservation.
Thus, it did not achieve the purposes specifically set out for it in the PAD (Annex 3, paras. 5 and 7), either in terms of
biodiversity monitoring or project evaluation, which, in the case of the latter, had two "key" objectives: (i) assess
attainment of the expected project results, and (ii) draw lessons learned to be included in the replication plan.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
According to the PAD (para 71, pg. 25), this project, which was rated Category B, triggered four Bank safeguard
policies: environmental assessment, natural habitats, indigenous peoples and forests. The ICR (para 31, pp. 9-10)
characterizes the project's safeguard performance as "generally satisfactory," However, it also stated that "while
environmental concerns were sufficiently taken into account, social impacts were initially not systematically identified,
recorded and/or mitigated." This improved as project implementation proceeded and by the end of the project, the
ICR reports that FONAFIFO was "well-advanced in systematically documenting particular impacts of PES on
indigenous communities and women. The ICR refers to a 2013 study by CATIE (the Center for Tropical Agricultural
Research and Higher Education) on the socio-economic impacts of PES, which concluded that the project exceeded
its targets with respect to benefits provided to indigenous communities and women, However, it does not discuss the
application of the Bank's social safeguard policies per se. Nor does it provide specific details regarding the
experience in relation to any of the three environmental ones triggered by the project. This is a significant weakness of
the ICR.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR reports that project financial management was considered satisfactory throughout project implementation as
was procurement. However, it provides no specific details in this regard, including with respect to the timeliness ad
quality of the audit reports. Thus, it is also one of the weakest parts of the ICR.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
No unintended impacts were reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         Relevance of design and, due to lack of
                                                            Satisfactory       evidence, efficacy with respect to both
                                                                               project development objectives as
                                                                               stated in the Loan Agreement are rated
                                                                               Modest. This is the same rating as
                                                                               contained in the ICR for the GEO,
                                                                               which is how the PDO was stated in the
                                                                               Loan Agreement (LA).
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Significant        The observations provided in the ICR
                     Outcome:                                                  are not supportive of its proposed rating
                                                                               but instead suggest that longer-term
                                                                               financial support needed for
                                                                               continuation of the PES program may
                                                                               be at risk for both financial and political
                                                                               reasons.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  While some of the lessons drawn by the ICR are generic and most are not new, the following should be
highlighted:

   1. Project design and implementation need to take into account country-specific complexities and pay particular
attention to project readiness prior to and during appraisal. The ICR adds (para 64, pg. 15) that "where project
effectiveness is delayed, the validity of assumptions made at appraisal needs to be reviewed and corrective action
taken as early as possible." This did not occur in the present project.
  2. To ensure that a project's M&E framework serves its purpose as a project management and results
assessment tool, project implementing agencies need to adequately understand its purpose and possess the
capacity to ensure its appropriate implementation. This was a critical weakness of the present project.

   3. Payment for Environmental Services (PES) projects have proven effective in promoting afforestation/
reforestation as well as forest conservation, while providing a number of environmental services such as watershed
protection to downstream users. However, such programs can also create perverse incentives that projects like the
present one have sought to avoid. In Costa Rica, for example, given the high value of certain products such as
pineapples, areas previously participating in the PES program are being converted into agricultural lands for the
production of cash crops. In addition, if PES programs are mainly financed through government subsidies (and/or
co-financed by external grants), the incentive for a symbiotic relationship between upstream providers and
downstream beneficiaries of the environmental service is removed. Thus, it is important that a monetary value be
attached to biodiversity conservation as part of the PES system so that the financial incentive for not converting the
land to -- or back -- to alternative uses is higher.

  4. Given the conditional cash transfer nature of PES, using this instrument to support vulnerable and
disadvantaged communities, such as indigenous populations, can both help to expand its territorial coverage and
improve the livelihoods of these beneficiaries.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This is a succinct and forthright ICR that covers most aspects of project performance well. The principal exception is
its treatment of safeguard and fiduciary aspects, which was inadequate, although the quality of the efficiency analysis
can also be questioned including the use of data from another project and comparatively low discount rates in the
cost-benefit analysis. In addition, the ICR bases its assessment of project results, and, thus, of the overall project
outcome on the PDO stated in the PAD and not that contained in the Loan Agreement (LA). This is the main reason
for the disconnect in the overall outcome rating above due to the lack of empirical evidence to support a higher one.
Even with regard to the PAD PDO rating, however, the ICR's conclusion with respect to the achievement of these
objectives is overly positive given that the project did not meet a number of its initial and/or revised targets. It could
also have explained why the project development objective as initially started in the LA was not modified to that
contained in the PAD at the time of the first restructuring in June 2012. These considerations notwithstanding, the
ICR provides a frank self-assessment of the project's and the Bank's shortcomings, for which it deserves credit.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
