CIRCUIATtNG COPY'CY
ID  BE RErURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. 337a-TA                                                     ot        I/t    c.,
Tanzania
Appraisal of National Sites
and Services Project
May 12, 1974                                                                        FILE COPY
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Recosntruction and Development
International Development Associaiton
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tanzanian Shillings (TSh)
1 Tanzanian Shilling (TSh1.0)  = US$0.14
1 U.S. Dollar (US$1.00)        = TSh7.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)      10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (Km)      =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)            2.47 acres
1 liter (1)               0.246 US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS
Ardhi         -   Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
COWIconsult   -   Danish consortium of consulting engineers
NHC           -   National Housing Corporation
RLDO          -   Regional Land Development Office
THB           -   Tanzania Housing Bank
NHBRU         -   National Housing and Building Research Unit
GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUfMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........ . .  ........................... .    i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......    ...... .........................              1
II.   BACKGROUND .................................  
A.   National Rural/Urban Policies ...........              ..............; 1
B.   The Urban Sector . ........           ..... .... ...            2
C.   The National Sites and Services Program    ......               5
III.   THE PROJECT ...........................                               7
A.   Project Description ............. .  ................ .         7
B.   Design Criteria and Standards ............*....                10
C.   Cost Estimates .....O-...........0...                          11
D.   Project Financing ......... . .. ................              13
E.   Procurement and Disbursement  *................                14
IV.   PROJECT EXECUTION            .....................                   15
A.   Executing Agency .......... . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . . .  .  15
B.   Administration          ...............................        17
C.   Financial Arrangements            .......................      21
V.   JUSTIFICATION ................. , ,         , ..                     24
VI.   AC-RE "WENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............                26
This Report was prepared by Messrs. G. A. McBride, D. Ahmad and Ms. C. Tager
(Transportation and Urban Projects Department), assisted by Mr. H. Wehner
(Consultant) and Mrs. Y. Kimaro (formerly Transportation and Urban Projects
Department).






ANNEXES
AN4EX 1        The Tanzania Housing Bank
ANNEX 2        Decentralization and the Reorganization of the Ministry of
Lands, Housing and Urban Development
ANNEX 3        The Ardhi Institute
ANNEX 4        Site Selection and Plans
ANNE. 5         Design Standards and Cost istimates
AINN.K 6       Lond Tenure, Building Standards and Ground Rents
CHARTS
I1PTr 8114     Organization of the Tanzania Fousing Bank
IflRD 8185)    Or,anization of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
Development -- Prior to Decentralization
IBRD 8186      Organization of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
Development -- After Decentralization
MAPS
IBRrn 10698    Tanzaila -- Project Locations
tnRP 10699     Dar em Salaam -- Site Locations
LBsRf  1070t   Sinza -- Site Layout Plan
TERI) 10702    SinzB -- Plot Layout Plan
tBRD In703     M&nzese B -- Layout Plan






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The project, first in a series of proposed sites and services projects
throughout Tanzania, will help strengthen au essential link in the national
rural/urban development strategy - i.e., a nationwide network of regional
urban centers which will support the rural development effort and enable the
Government to extend infrastructure and services to the widely-scattered popu-
lation. Moreover, the project takes into account the basic principles of
the 1967 Arusha Declaration, i.e., self-help, self-reliance, and social
equality, thereby rcoiding the need to draw heavily upon limited resources
for urban purposes in a predominantly rural economy.
ii.       With its nationalization and decentralization policies, the Govern-
ment has the institutional means to build an economic base in the regional
centers. However, it lacks the capital and manpower to accommodate the popu-
lation increase which will accompany this growth, as well as the mounting
numbers of subsistence farmers migrating to these centers in search of a better
living environment and improved employment opportunities. As a result, severe
shortages in housing, basic infrastructure and community facilities are de-
veloping, giving ri3e to growing squatter settlements. Living conditions are
difficult due to inadequate access to water, electricity, refuse collection,
education and health services.
iii.      In early 1973, at the request of President Nyerere, the Ministry of
Lands, Housing and Urban Development (Ardhi) prepared a four-year sites and
services program for the tan regional centers, to provide 12,500 newly sur-
veyed, serviced or improved plots annually with basic infrastructure and com-
munity facilities. In an important departure from previous policies of squat-
ter demolition and resettlement, which the Government found too costly and
socially disruptive, the program provides basic infrastructure and community
facilities in areas where spontaneously-organized efforts have resulted in
viable neighborhoods. To make credit available to low-income households for
construction loans, the Government established the Tanzania Rousing Bank
(THB) to mobilize domestic savings and foreign funds. In June, Ardhi was
reorganized and a Sites and Services Section was created to help plan and
implement projects.
iv.       The proposed project, with sites in Dar es Salaam and the two re-
gional centers of Mwanza and Mbeya, is an initial step in implementing the
Government's nationwide low-cost housing progrem. Although it will not
satisfy the total demand for serviced and Improved plots, the funds, tech-
nical assistance and training support provided under the project will en-
able the Government to strengthen its institutional capacity to plan and
implement an expanded program in the future. The provision of surveyed plots,
basic infrastructure, coumunity facilities, and access to credit for construc-
tion will permit lov-income households in planned areas and squatter settle-
ments to construct houses and improve their living environment on a self-hf;lp
basis at acceptable per plot costs.






- ii -
v.        The oroject consists of:
(a) approximately 10,600 newly serviced plots located as follws:
(i) about 7,450 plots in three sites in Dar es Salaam;
(ii)  about 2,300 plots in Mwanza; and
(iii) about 850 plots in Mbeya.
(b)  improvements to basic infrastructure and additional services
in existing squatter settlements (CManzese A and B in Dar es
Salaam and Mwanjelwa in Mbeya), totalling approximately 8,800
dwellings;
(c)  coamunity facilities (eleven coiwnity education centers,
one health center, seven dispensaries, and eleven markets);
(d)  consultants' services for the design and detailed engineering
of basic infrastructure and comwunity facilities, preparation
of a follow-up sites and services project and overall project
supervision;
(e)  expansion of physical facilities for the town planning
program within the Ardhi Institute;
Cf) monitoring of the project by the Econdmic Research Bureau of
the University of Dar es Salasa;
(g)  a pilot project to improve the nutritional awareness of
households in sites and services areas;
Ch)  a training program for technical staff of Ardhi, to be
carried out by consultants;
(i)  financing for the THB soft-loan lending program for construction
loans for low-income households; and
(j)  equipment/vehicles.
vi.       The sites were carefully selected in terms of availability of land
suitably sized and situated for low-cost housing, natural conditions suitable
for construction and drainage, and location relative to enploywmet opportu-
nities, public transport, and off-site infrastructure. For squatter areas,
an additional site selection criterion was the existence of well-constructed
housing and viable neighborhoods.
vii.      Plot layouts are simple for economic construction and servicing.
The typical plot size (288 m2 ) is appropriate in Tanzania. The design stand-
ards for basic infrastructure are low cost, but provision is made for future
improvements as household incomes permit.



- iii -
viii.     The per plot costs range from TSh 12.7 per month (squatter upgrad-
ing area) to TSh 37.8 per month, excluding construction loans. Depending
upon the amount or the construction loan or the number of rooms rented,
households with incomes as low as TSh 200 per month (16th percentile on
household income scale) can afford a new plot.
ix.       The Borrower will be the Government of Tanzania.  The Executing
Agency will be Ardhi, which will have overall responsibility for the project.
The Sites and Services Section in Ardhi will be responsible for planning,
designing, and construction of the infrastructure and commuinty facilities in
consultation with concerned ministries. The local administration will be
handled by the respective Regional Land Development Offices. The THB will
give loans to individual plot-occupants and cooperatives for house construc-
tion.
x.        The total project costs, based on preliminary engineering for two
sites in Dar es Salasm and site investigation of others, are estimated at
TSh 119.6 million (US$16.7 million) including TSh 4.5 million for land ac-
quisition and TSh 45.0 million for THE's soft construction loans. Land
acquisition costs consist of compensation for farms and existing houses and
will be paid by the Government.
xi.       Labor intensiveness and economy levels of design standards resul-
in a foreign exchange component of about 38% of civil works. It is proposed
that IDA finance 65% of the cost of the infrastructure, community facilities,
and the expansion of Ardhi Institute, 75% of the technical assistance costs,
the full cost of equipment, and TSh 14.0 million (US$2.0 million) out of
TSh 45.0 million required by THB for construction loans. Accordingly, the
IDA credit wou~ld amount to TSh 60.8 million (USS8.5 million).
xii.      The project will be executed over three years, 1974-1977.  Civil
works will be div'ded into small contracts ranging between TSh 2-10 million.
Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines. Construction
will be supervised by consultants on behalf of the Government.
xiii.     To begin construction as soon as possible, Government has engaged
consultants for detailed engineering of infrastructure prior to approval of
the Credit. It is recommended that retroactive financing for consultant
services amounting to US$200,000 be included in the Credit.
xiv.      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$8.5 million
equivalent.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Tanzanian Government is emphasizing sites and services and
squatter improvement in its national low-cost housing program. At Govern-
ment's reciuest, a mission visited Tanzania in February 1972 to explore the
possibilities of Bank/IDA assistance. Subsequent missions visited Tanzania
in November 1972 and February/March 1973 to assist the Ministry of-Lands-,-
Housing and Urban Development (Ardhi) and its consultants (COWIconsult,
Danish consortium) in the preparation of a sites and services project for
Dar es Salaam and two upcountry regional centers. The project was appraised
in August/September 1973.
1.02      Thic project would be the first Bank/IDA financed lending operation
for urban development in Tanzania. Moreover, it is the first of a series of
proposed sites and services projects throughout the country for which the
Government wili be seeking future financing assistance by the Bank/IDA and
other external financing and bilateral-aid agencies.
1.03      This report is based on findings of the appraisal mission consist-
ing of Messrs. G. A. McBride, D. Ahmad, J. Turner (consultant), and Ms. C.
Tager. Mr. H. Wehner (consultant) and Mrs. Y. Kimaro participated in the
preparation of the report. It is based upon information, data and studies
provided by the Government.
II. BACKGROUND
A. National Rural/Urban Policies
2.01      The project is the first in a proposed series of sites and services
projects in Dar es Salaam and nine other regional urban centers designated
by Government for accelerated growth (Table 1). Tanzania's urban policy
emphasizes the establishment of a manufacturing/service base in these centers
which will generate off-farm employment in support of the national goals of
increased agricultural production and improved living conditions for the rural
majority. At the same time, the development of a decentralized urban network
is part of a national rural/urban strategy to achieve a more regionally bal-
anced industrial distribution and to extend needed basic infrastructure and
services to a widely scattered population. To build this regional economic
base, the Government is promoting an industrial decentralization policy, aided
by its 1967 nationalization of major economic activities. Lecently, the
Government also decentralized its own operations, transferring over 40Z of
its establishment from Dar es Salaam to the regional centers. To avoid a



-2-
drain on the country's severely limited resources, President Nyerere has
stressed that the principles of self-help, self-reliance anid social equality
set forth in his Arusha Declaration (1967) to guide rural deweIc M=tVoast be
incorporated in pursuing this strategy.
2.02      Slowly increasing agricultural production and rural ibbnoes averag-
ing about one-sixth of those in the urban areas (TSh 1,000 or US$140 p.a.)
have heightened the rate of rural/urban migration, as mounting nwmberS of
subsistence farmers move to the regional centers in search of better opportuni-
ties. The effect has been to aggravate existing shortages of housing, basic
infrastructure and community facilities. Extreme manpower and financial
constraints have rendered Goverment urban housing programs iniadquate and
ineffective. A National Housing Corporation (NEC) program to supply rental
units produced too few and at costs far above the very low-income urban
household budget. Public sector programs to provide surveyed and serviced
plots have suffered from lengthy delays in processing applications and plot
allocation. Because of uncoordinated national and regional responsibilities,
surveyed plots usually go unserviced; in such cases, allottees often do not
build.
2.03      Faced with costly and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, low-income
urban households without land and access to credit for construction loans,
rent rooms or construct shelter in rapidly spreading squatter areas. While
these areas lack basic infrastructure and essential services, ome have built
sturdy, durable houses and developed a strong conunity structure and social
fabric. They thus represent an important coitribution to the bousing stock.
B. The Urban Sector
2.04      Although the absolute number of urban dwellers remains relatively
small, i.e., about 900,000 or about 6.5% of a total population of 14.0 mil-
lion, the rate of urbanization is steadily climbing. During 1957-1967,
the ten principal regional centers grew at an average annual rate of 6.5%,
nearly two and one-half times the national rate (Table 1). During the same
period, Dar es Salaam grew at an average annual rate of 8%, reaching 11%
between 1965-1967. Ii these trends continue, Tanzania's urban population
will double in 11 years and Dar es Salaam, presently estTat-sd&-at 491,000,
will double in 9 years, reaching 1.0 million by 1983.
2.05      Nearly three-quarters of this growth is due to rural/urban migra-
tion. Fully 85% of the adult urban population was born outside its current
town of residence, and nearly two-thirds migrated after the age of 13 y'ears.
Dar es Salaam has borne the brunt of this migration, and presently has about
55% of the total urban population. While decentralization and the prbposed
relocation of the capital to Dodoma could temporarily slow present growth
trends, Dar es Salaam's role as a principal East African port and industrial/
co,mmercial center will, nevertheless, ensure its position as the country's
primate city (Map 10698).



- 3 -
2.06      A by-product of these high rates of urbanization is a severe nation-
wide housing shortage, particularly mnong the nearly 80% of the urban house-
holds in Dar es Salaam earning lees than TSh 500 per month (Table 2). The
Second Five-Year Plan estimatas that 20,000 units p.a. (including 13,700
low-cost units) are required in urban areas to accommodate the expected pop-
ulation growth, relieve existing overcrowding, and replate dilapidated
dwellings. The country-wide waiting list for NHC units, dating back to 1964,
is over 24,000, nearly 19,000 for houses in Dar es Salaam. Another waiting
list for surveyed plots, dating back to 1967, was maintained by the Mzizima
District 1/ and consists of about 18,000 applications. There is probably
overlap between these lists and some applicants undoubtedly have died, re-
turned to the rural areas, or are no longer interested or abla to secure a
plot. Nevertheless, they indicate a substantial unfulfilled demand.
2.07      In 1969, over 40% of the housing containing an estimated, 65% of
Dar es Salaam's population was located in squatter areas. The most prevalent
type of shelter is the traditional Swahili house 2/, constituting nearly 90%
of the squatter housing stock. Its popularity among a transient urban popu-
lation is largely attributed to the availability of rcoms for rent, averaging
TSh 20-30 per room per month, compared to TSh 40-45 in the least-cost Govern-
ment housing. In Dar es Salaam over 80% of the households are tenants, over
90% of which live in one room at rents ranging between TSh tD-40 per month.
2.08      In Dar es Salaam, about 25% of the households have piped water to
their plots, 38% h.ave access to water from kiosks (standpipes), and 37%
have no access to piped water. Nearly 73% of the houses are without elec-
tricity. Municipal services in most areas are practically non-existent, due
1/  On January 1, 1974, the Dar es Salaam Statutory Planning Area became
a regional administration, divided into three districts. Formerly,
the Mzizima District surrounded the Municipality of Dar es Salaam
and was part of the Coast Region.
2/   A typical traditional Swahili house is constructed of local materials
on a plot of about 370 m , and consists of 4-6 rooms separated by a
1.5 m wide corridor.  An outbuilding (banda), covering the cooking
and storage areas and pit latrine, is at the rear of the plot. A
small garden (shamba) on the plot provides a valuable source of food.
In the more suburban settlements and in the upcountry towns, larger
shambas directly contribute to household incomes. A traditional
Swahili house (i.e., bush poles, mud, thatch, etc.) costs about
TSh 5,000. Maintenance costs are low, and if regularly provided,
the house will last up to 15 years. Government often pays full
compensation for a well-constructed and well-maintained house.
An improved Swahili house, to be built under the proposed project,
is made of more permanent materials (soil-cement blocks, concrete
slabs, etc.) and costs TSh 7,000 or more. If regularly maintained,
it will last about 25 years.



-4-
to insufficient funds, equipment and a shortage of trained manpower. Vir-
tuallv 9Q% of the households use Pit latrines and cesspits, while only eight
pumping crucks are available for cesspit cleaning. Refuse collection seavices
operate with on]v ten trucks. Because they are limited to aurfaced roda,
squatter areas go unserviced and trash is usually dumped behind the houses
or In the streets. Mounds of trash are coinon around marketst wher condi-
tions are particularly unsanitary.  The UNDP intends to finance a two-year
study investigating sewerage and gArbage disposal problems and their solution
in T)ar es Salaam. In view of the additional needs for these *orvices in
pro1ect arpas, funds are included, as an interim measure, for one cesapit
emptier and three refuse collection trucks.
2.0"      Upcountry centers have similar problems.  wanza, Taqzania's third
largest town (estimated population 55,800) is growing at an average annual
ratr of 67. Nearly 77% of this growth is due to rural/urban migration.
Located on Take Victcria, it is the major regional manufacturing and trade
center, as well as a principal port and rail terminus. Due to a shortage of
inexpensivp housing and surveyed plots, squatting has proliferated, parti-
cularlv on the steep, rock! hillsides which.frame the town. These areas
gpnerallv have limited basic infrastructure and community facilities, or none
at all.
2.10      Regional centers in the sparsely settled south and southwest are
equally underdeveloped in terms of housing, basic infrastructure, and com
miinitw facilities. !beva, an agricultural marketing center in the south-
west, has been designated for industrial expansion, including a cement
plant, cold storage facllities and a pvrethrum extract plant.  Strategically
located on the Tan-Zam Highway and Railway, the town of Mbeva has grown in
recent years at an average annual rate of 7% to its current level of 21,000. 1/
As in Nwanza, most of the population is forced to provide its own shelter in
poorlv serviced souatter areas.
;'.11     The nationwide delivery of education and health services is in
transition, 1n light of the Government's rural development effort and severe
capital and manpower constraints. Both programs are being designed to im-
prove living conditions and productivitv of the rural farmer. The Ministry
of .National Educartion is modifying its tradltional primary school curricu-
liri" to incluide practicn :;kills for rural living, such as simple agricul-
tiir:il techlnieues, home science, hvgiene, and crafts. The Governent's
policv is to nrovide hasic education for everyone hb  198Q.  Since the
prinar. school is the mnst widespread educational facility, it has also
hecomc^  t1e center for adult literacy and cowmunitv education progrms,
eiai-1inp' theo Government to reach a broad spectrum of the population. The
stand.ard primary school, how'ever, is ill-suited for these innovations.
IThi1le mioFt schools maintain a shamba for agricultural in.struction, only
20% hav'e an adequately enuipped workshop, and the majority lack-the
necessarv supplies, tools, and equipment for practical and vocational
1/   The popuilation of tile ? beya ?Master Plan Area (Mbeya sub-diaetrict) is
estimated at 50,nOn.



-5-
education. U1nder the Fourth Education Project (Cr 371-TA), funds are
provided for consultants' services to design a suitable facility to function
as a Coumunity Education Center (CEC).
2.12      Infectious and parasitic diseases, including malaria and bilharzia,
affect tro-thirds of the population, and over 40% have tuberculosis of the
lung. Due principally to untreated malnutrition, about 15% of all infants
die before one year and between 20 and 40% (according to region) die before
age five; 20-30% of pre-school children are undernourished and over 50X suf-
fer from some form of malnutrition before adulthood. 1/ In an attempt to
reverse these trends, the Government is building a network of rural health
centers (each serving 50,000 population), and rural dispensaries. Along
with basic curative services, the Ministry of Health is developing pro-
grams in these facilities for preventive health services, including the dis-
semination of health information, innoculations, and early diagnosis and
treatment. Much of this work can be more effectively carried out jointly
with the Ministry of National Education in the CECs. The funds and technical
assistance provided under the proposed project will enable the Government to
develop these interrelationships in the sites and services areas and design
appropriate facilities for multipurpose use.
2.13      The roots of malnutrition are imbedded in Tanzania's social and econ-
omic structure, the alleviation of which requires a broad approach beyond th
scope of this pro-ject. However, with the assistance of SIDA, the Government
is building a National Food and Nutrition Program within the newly created
Tanzanian Food and Nutr-ition Center.  For the short term, the Government is
emphasizing the dissemination of existing information through education and
social communication. The severity of some nutritional deficiencies could
be reduced through education, but appropriate nutrition information is not
readily accessible to the population. Given the success of past efforts
in Zambla and Ethiopia, nutrition education could be an essential element
in Tanzania's nationwide nutrition effort. Accordingly, funds are included
in the proposed project to undertake a pilot project to improve the nutritional
awareness of households in sites and services areas.
C. The National Sites and Services Program
2.14      The absence of effective planning and coordination among agencies
responsible for development has contributed to the continuing unregulated
urban gro-th.  Ardhi has concentrated on reducing only the housing shortage,
leaving the provision of basic infrastructure and communitv facilities to the
concerned ministries and local agencies as their priorities and budgets permit.
Moreover, participation of the private sector in the housing market was
sharplv curtailed, following the 1Q71 Acquisition of Buildings Act nationaliz-
ing non-owner occupied rental properties with aggregate values totalling over
TSh 100,000.
1/   Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), "A National Food and
Nutrition Programme for Tanzania," 1970.



2.15      In 1Q3, at President Nyerere's request, Ardhi prepared a four-year
National Sites and Services Program for the ten regional centers to provide
12,500 newlv surveyed, serviced or improved plots annually, with b&a*c in-
frastructure and cocmmunity facilities. Recognizing the imporiince-of die
self-help contribution to the housing stock, squatter settleoents will be
upgraded where spontaneously organtzed efforts have resulted in *11-con-
structed housing and viable neighborhoods.  This is an importanit departure
from previous policies of squatter demolition and resettle6ent which the
Government found costly and socially disruptive.  The proposed project-is
a first step in the implementation of the Government's Progtki with project
sites in Par es Salaam, Mw8nza and Mbeya.
2.16      To make credit available to low-income hotuseholds for construction
loans, the Government established the Tanzania Housing Bank (THB) in January,
1973 (Chart 8184). A parastatal of the Treasury, its main purpose is to
mohilize domestic savings and foreign funds for financing low-income housing
for individuals and cooperative groups (ANNEX 1). 1/ The TUB provides tech-
nical and financial assistance for sites and services projects, ujamaa
villages, 2/ and other owner-occupied housing schpemes. Moreover, it promotes
the use of local building materials, encourages the construction of housing
types best suited to local conditions, and fosters the minimizing of building
costs.
2.17      In June 1973, Ardhi was reorganized to reflect its changed role under
decentralization and the need to improve performance in land development (ANNEX
2 and Charts 8185-8186). Major responsibility for land development in urban
and rural areas, in^luding the installation of basic infrastructute and comn-
munity facilities, was transferred to the regions.  The Ministry retained
responsibility for proposing and coordinating urban plannting polices, in-
cluding the formulatlon and execution of housing policies and programs. Be-
cause of limited technical capacity in the regions, a Sites and Services
Section was created within the Ministry. The Section, however, is under-
staffed, relving on technical assistance provided by the UNDP and otier ex-
ternal financing and bilateral-aid agencies.
2.1R      Ardhi maintains a limited manpower development program at its
Ardhi Institute (ANNEX 3), providing sub-professional training for Government
1/   The THE replaced the Permanent Housing Finance Company of Tanzania
(PVFCT), a commercial institution jointly owned by the GoVerwment and
the Commonwe&lth Development Corporation (1K) set up In 1968 to finance
medium- and high-income housing. The PHFCT funds were exeinafVe because
they were borrowed from the public, Government, and fio,a'brdad at high
interest rates. The resulting high housing costs aid- rmi'Wi led to public
criticism and the subsequent take-over of the PIFCT's assilt, liabilities,
and operations by the THB.
2/   A major instrunent of Government's rural development strategy is the
reorganization of production on communal lines in "ujamsa" villages,
usuallv comprised of 60-70 families.  Ujamaa is a voluntary mevement
hased on a maximutm of self-help and self-reliance.  The ultitmte aim is
to transform ujamaa villages into production-besed, uitipurpasE coop-
erative societies.



positions in surveying, land management and valuation and town planning. 1/
Government funds provided for an increase in enrollment and staff and an
expanslon of the physical facil4ties for surveyors and land management
valners programs. However, a shortage of funds is a bottleneck in the
Institute's town planning program, which is jointly funded by the Government
and A UNDP grant.
2.19      There are only nine Tanzanian professional Town Planning Officers
and fifteen Town Planning Assistants in Tanzania. With only 26 trainees
currently enrolled, an estimated 4n additional Planning Officers and 90
Planning Assistants will be required hy 1980 in conjunction with the accele-
rated development of upcountry toans and ujamaa villages. To assist in the
staffing of the Sites and Services Section, funds are provided under the
project to expand the Institute's facilities to accommodate 60 Town Planning
students and to train technical staff of Ardbi.
2.20      The proposed project is not intended to satisfy the total demand
for serviced and improved plots.  Rather, the funds, technical assistance and
trnining support will assist the Government to develop its institutional capa-
citv to plan and implement an expanded program in the future. Furthermore,
the provision of survey.pd plots, basic infrastructure, community facilities,
and access to credit will permit low-income households in planned areas and
squatter settlements to construct houses and improve their living environment
on a self-help basis in accordance with Arusha principles and at acceptable
per plot costs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) approximately 10,600 newly serviced plots located as follows:
(i) nearly 7,450 plots in three sites in Dar es Salaam,
(ii) about 2,300 plots in Mwanza, and
(iii) about 850 plots in Mheva.
(b)  improvements to basic infrastrncture and additional services
in existing squatter settlements (N1anzese A and B in Dar es
Salaam and Mwanjelwa in Mbeva), totalling approximately 8,800
dwellings;
1/   The three-year program trains secondary school leavers and graduates
as Town Planning Assistants. Professional Town Planning Officers are
trained outside Tanzania.



-8-
(c)  community facilities (eleven community education centers,
one health center, seven dispensaries, and eleven markets);
(d) consultants' services for the design and detailed engineer-ing
of basic infrastructure and community facilities, prepamtIion.
of a follow-up site and service project and overall project
supervision;
(e) expansion of physical facilities for the town plaaning
program within the Ardhi Institute;
(f) monitoring of the project by the Economic Research Bureau of
the University of Dar es Salaam;
(g) a pilot project to improve the nutritional awareness of
households in sites and services areas;
(h) a training prcgram for technical staff of Ardhi, to be
carried out by consultants;
(i) financing for the THB soft-loan lending program for construction
loans for low-income households; and
(j) equipment/vehicles.
3.02      The project is a significant first step towards implementing the
National Sites and Services Program, even though the number of plots developed
will meet less than half the estimated demand in the three cities.  The size
of the project and the number of regional centers included were deterwined.
by the capacity of Ardhi, THB, and the regions to staff and administer the.
project. Due to the magnitude of its urban problems, about 70% of the plots
will he in Dar es Salaam. The project emphasizes squatter upgrading, in
accordance with the Government's desire to keep project costs low, while
capitalizing on the substantial household investments already mad. in those.
squatter areas which have developed into viable communities.
3.03      Principal selection criterin (i'NNEX 4) for sites were:  (i) avaii-
rihi1irv oF lmnn4, suitabh-v sized and situn1ted to be economically developed
inro low-cost houtsing areas (sites and servlces), and, in the case of Dar
a's Salaam, in accordnnce with the Master Plan, (ii) natural conditions (topo-
graphy, vegetation, soil and ground water conditions, etc.) suitable for
construction and drainage, and (iii) location relative to eaployment oppor-
tunities, public transport, and off-site infrastructure (roads, water, sewerage,
power, etc.). For sqtiatter areas, an additional selection criterion was the
existence of well-constructed housing and viahle neighborhoods.



-9-
3.04      In Dar es Salaam, the three sites for new plots (Mikocheni,
Kijitonyama 1/ and Sinza, totalling 475 ha), and the squatter settlement areas
(Qlanzese A and B. Totalling about 500 ha), form the beginning of north-south
arc of residential districts on the western fringe of the city center, inden-
tiffed in the Master Plan for early development (Map 10699). 7ocated on the
principal roads to the city center, the sites are near the rapidly developing
Ubungo industrial area of Morogoro Road. Upon completion of the Port Access
Road (scheduled for abotut FY1977), the sites will also be within minutes of
the major industrial areas along the Pugu Road. The sites are well located in
relation to public transportation and off-site infrastructure, i.e., roads,
water and power mains. In Mwanza, the site'(110 ha) is on the principal
east-west rouite served by the power, water, and public transport system,
and near the Nyakato industrial area, which Ls scheduled for a 100% increase
in emiplovment (from about 1,000 to 2,000 employees) during FY1975.  In Mbeya,
rhe' site (140 ha) Is a squatter improvement area about 2 Ian south of the
city center and close to the Tan-Zam Highway and Railroad. Characteristics
of all sites are suwmmarized in ANNEX 4, Table 1.
3.09      Ftnds provided bv the project for consultants' services will be used
for the design and detailed engineering of the infrastructure and community
fnacilities. For the community facilities, the consultants will build upor
thie innovative concepts that the Government is developing to deliver education
and health services to the rural areas (parns 2.11-2.13), investigate the in-
terrelationships between these services and, in collaboration with the Ministry
of National Education, design facilities for multipurpose use (ANNEX 4).
The consultants will also supervise construction of the basic infrastructure,
community facilities, and the Ardhi Institute expansion. Moreover, the con-
sultants will work with Ardhi to prepare a follow-up sites and services
project, emphasizing the training of Tanzanian counterparts to carry out
this work For subsequent projects. The project will expand the physical
facilities of Ardhi Institute's town planning program (paras 2.18-2.19) by
adding 3 equipped stuidio/workshops for about 60 students. Funds are also
provided for monitoving the project (para 4.14) and training of technical
staff of Ardhi (paras 4.15-4.16).
3.n6      With IPA assistance 4nd in collaboration with the Ministries of
Hlealth, National Education and Agriculture, the pilot nutrition project
will he carried out hv the Tanzanian Food and Nutrition Center. The purpose
of the project is to encourage changes in food habits based on nutritional
considerations and c:o develop capabilities to prepare and disseminate appro-
priate nutrition Information. This will be done by providing funds and
technical assistance to inter alia:
1/   In 1970, the Government developed the first quadrant of Kijitonyama (850
plots) as a pilot sites and services project, which proved unsuccessful
clue to high design standards. The remaining three quadrant$ were
redesigned and included in the proposed project.



- 10 -
(a)  assess, based on existing data, and additional data as
required, the nutritional status, food consuption patterns
and household hudget expenditures in sites and serYibes
areas;
(h)  determine the most effective techniques to dissieunee
Information to the nutritionally needy;
(e)  prepare, produce, and disseminate appropriate material
(e.g. posters, radio advertisements, etc.) with particular
emphasis on techniques to improve and supplement the nutri-
tional value of food grown on urban shambas and to ungradw
the importance of maintaining this food source;
(d)  evaluate the results and potential for expansion and,
(e) provlde a short-term nutrition education course for TAMN
cell leaders for home visits as well as counterpart tratin-
ing in conjunction with technical assistance.
B. T'esign Criteria and Standards
3.07      Layouts for Sinza and Manzese B (squatter settlement) have been
prepared (Maps 10701-10703), and preliminary engineering comleted. The
Sinza lavout is simple for economic construction and servicing. Provisioli
is made for vehicular circulation throughout the site, allovog.easy act-ss
to residlentlal areas, community facilities, and the main trunk road*-, whllec
protecting the neighborhoods from excessive through-traffic. A safe, con-
vpnient network of footpaths is also provided, linking plots to pub-l-ic-areas-
andl the transport system. Community facilities are grouped to take advantage
of their interrelationships and permit multiple use of the buildings and
surrounding areas. Taking into account the location of existing houses,
infrastructure, and community facilities, these criteria were used for
Manzese A and B. Site plans and preliminary engineering for the ot-heor sites
are being prepared, using similar design criteria and standarda;
3.08      The basic deslgn unit is the 10-house cell. 1/  in Sinza- the- plots
are arranged within the blocks to avoid uneconomic double frontates, and to
he at2least within 50 m of a small open space.  The typical plot -s*e is
?88 m , which, althouigh large compared to previous Bank/IDA finance-
projects. 2/ is appropriate in the Tanzanian context.  Large ploVes are nee-
essarv to accommodate a traditional Swahili house (often lodgint evetwl'
families), a shanba, and a pit latrine or aqua privy on each plot. I'm
1/   This design unit is in keeping with the traditional TANU (Tangan'AdJw
African National IJnion settlement pattern.
2/   Senegal 150 m2 , Nicaragua 110 m2 , and Jamaica 94 a 2



- \ 1 -
Kijitonvama, where plots were surveved and allocated in 1970, the olot size
is 370 m-.  In the "anzese squatter areas, where olots are arranged haphazardlv,
block surveys have been completed, resulting in blocks of 20-10 houses which
are somewhat irregular.
3.09      The design standards (ANNEX 5) for the basic infrastructure are
such that the per olot costs can he afforded bv households at the lower-end
of the household income scale (Table 2). Provisions are made, however, for
future improvements to roads and drainage and for the ir.stallation of indi-
vidual house connections for water and electricitv, as household incomes
permit.  Each site will have a network of collector, primary, secondary, and
pedestrian roads.  Collector roads .will be macadam surfaced, suitable for
bus traffic, whereas primarv roads will be gravelled, providing vehicular
access to the neighborhoods. Secondary and Dedestrian roads serving the
individual plots will be dirt roads. Carriageway widths on the surfaced
roads will be kepz at a minimum, with provision for future widening. A
water kiosk (standpine) will be provided for every 50 plots, vithin a walk-
ing distance of 150 meters.  In Mikocheni, however, because the high water
table necessitates a central sewerage system, individual water connections
will be provided. Sewage disposal at other sites will be provided by pit
latrine.  Plot-owners, who can afford, will be encouraged to construct aqua
privies. The THB construction loan will include financing for such aqua
privies. The initial power distribution system will provide for security
street lighting on the main roads and electricity for the communitv facil-
ities. The drainage system, designed to carry storn water and domestLc
waste water other than from latrines, consists of open earth ditches along
all roads, with culverts at vehicular crossings.
C. Cost Estimates
3.10      Cost estimates prepared by consultants (COWIconsult) for the
on-site infrastructure are based upon the nreliminary engineering for Sinza
and Manzese B.  These costs formed the basis for estimating the on-site
infrastructure costs for the otlher sites. The off-site infrastructure costs
were estimated separately for each site, also using the preliminary engi-
neering for Sinza and Manzese B.  All infrastructure cost estimates, based
on December 1973 unit prices, are given in ANNEX 5, Table 1. The cost
breakdown for the infrastructure components in Sinza, i.e., roads, drainage,
water, sewage disposal and power, is shown in ANNEX 5, Table 2.
3.11      The estimated cost of the project, including land acquisition,
technical assistance, construction loans and contingencies, is about TSh 119.6
million (US$16.7 million equivalent). The foreign exchange comDonent is small,
US$3.9 million or about 38% of civil work.s (23t of project costs), due to
labor intensiveness and economy levels of design standards. The main cost
categories are summarized in the following table.



. .;ti '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ,vJ) 'i'1  V)
,-cal      Foreigri      i-tal              Local       .-,oreign     1otsI           Excharge
i.an i Aq4uisit ion
C2mpensation                                            4,530    -4,530                                634                      634                 0
Infrastructure
Roads                                                   7,268        3,115        10,383             1,018         436        1,45L)               30
Storm Water Drainage                                    2,558        1,096         3,654               358         154          512                30
Water SupFly                                            3,636        3,635         7,271               509         509        1,018                50
Sewage I iipcsal                                        1,995          855         2,850               280         120           400               30
Power Dit.-ibution                                      Lt419        3,310         4,729               199         463          662                70
Sub-tottd          16,875       12,012        28,887             2,364       1,682         4,046               L-
Community Facilities
Community Education Centers                             4,860        2,082         6,942               680         292            972              30
Health Facilities                                       2,080          891         2,971               291         125            416
Market s                                                  910          390         1,300               127          55            182              30
Sub-total           7,350        3,363        11,213             1,098         472          1,570              30
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services                                       590        1,765         2,355                 83        247            330               75
Ardhi lnsditute Building                                 1,400         600         2,000                196         84            280               30
Future Project Preparation                                 295         885         1,180                 41        124            165               75
Monitoring                                                 180         535           715                 25         75            100               75
Pilot Nutrition Project                                    270         800         1,070                 38        112            150               75
Training                                                   360       1,070         1,430                 50        150            200               75
Sub-total           3,095        5,655         8,750                433        792          1,225           *  s5
Equiptren t /Vehicles                                        -         1,070          1,070                -         150            150              100
Tanzanian IJousing Bank
Cons'ruction Loans                                      45,000         -           45,000             6,303         -           6,303                0
Contingencies
Physical (approximately 16%)                             4,840       2,075          6,915               678        291            969                30
3rice Escalatior. (approximately 31%)                    9,300       3,985          3285              1,302        558          1,86o                3C
Sub-total          14,140        6,060         20,200             1,980        849          2,829               30
TOTAL               91,490         160        119,650            12,812      3,945         16,757               23



- 13 -
The infrastructure costs include a 152 physical contingency factor for the
sites for which preliminary engineering has been completed, and 25% for the
remaining sites. A 10% physical contingency allowance is provided for
community facilities and the Ardhi Institute building. Due to rapidly
incre"sing pricest particularly for oil and petro-chemical products, a
high contingency allowance for price escalation is provided. For all civil
works, price escalation of 1i%, 15%, 12%, and 122 is assumed in 1974, 1975,
1976 and 1977, respectively.' This amounts to an overall price contingency
of about 31%.
3.12      Land acquisition costs consist of compensation payments for crops
and existing houses which imust be demolished. 1/ Site lavouts take into
account the existing houses, thereby minimizing the need to demolish.  All
compensation will be paid by the Government. Compensation payments have
been made for the Mikocheni and Kijitonyasma sites in Dar es Salasm. Com-
pensation for Sinza and upcountry town sites is underway. Total estimated
compensation for the five sites is TSh 4.53 million.
D.  Project Financing
3.13      Financing of project costs will be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
TSh           US$
(millions)   (millions)       2
IDA                             60.8           8.5         50.8
Government of Tanzania          58.8           8.2         49.2
Total                     119.6         16.7        100.0
The proposed IDA credit will be on standard terms to Government. This vtould
finance 65% of the cost of civil works (infrastructure, community facilities
and Ardhi Institute building), 75% of consultants services, the full cost of
equipment, zero percent for land acquisition, and US$2.0 million for the
construction loan funds for the THB. IDA funds for construction loans will
be made available to THB at 3% annually. Although the funds provided for
THB construction loans (TSh 14.0 million) are small relative to the need
of TSh 45.0 million, the IDA contribution is expected to encourage other
external financing and bilateral-aid agencies to follow suit. Detailed
project financing is shown in Table 3.
1/   Since all land in Tanzania is vested in the State (the Freehold TiLles
Convernion and Government Leases Act, 1963), no land purchase costs
are included in the project.



- 14 -
E. Procurement and Disbursemat
3.1~4     The prnlect will be carried out over three years dtrint 1974-77
(ANNEX 5, Flgtire 1). TnfraMtructure conetruction is expected to start on the
f1rtt location (1(iiltonnvafa) in September 1974 and be executed for all sites
by Juno 1977.  Coustruetion of coouanity facilities will be phaed-oVer ao
eighteen-month period ending December 1976.  Construction will be labor
intensive, involvinsi; simple equipment and techniques which are well vithin
the capabilities o& local contractors.  Because of the scattteid locations
and staggered time schedules, it will not be possible to tender all sites
at the aame time. In order to interest small and specialized c6ntractors
and promote competition, the civil vorks on each sit* will be diyidod into
small contracts varying betweoa TSh 2-10 millien.1/ As far as-postibl.,
contracts will be tendered at the-ame time to Xi;e equal chxce to large
and small contractors. A contractor can bid for one or all coutat8 sep-
arately, or combine certain contracts by type and/or locatiom. Mu evaiuating
bids, local civil works contractors will be allowed a 7-1/2% prftfscee oan
bids on foreign contractors. Due to the size, nature, location and ti fig
of the project, it is unlikely that foreign firmn based outside Dar es Salaam
will be interested la bidding for the construction works. However, there are
a number of established contractors in East Africa who should be interested.
In accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines for procure-nt, the GC'a9ett will
advertise for the tenders in East African countries and notify   b#dWs    in
Dar es Salsam. There will be prequalification of firm so that the G&ftnt-
muent cU  assess firs' cspabilities   d ezperieme in panaging p%4*6st dan-
struction in Tanzania, and whether they qualify for do sstic pr*ftVfrt*.
Project construction will be supervised by consultants on beba f of the
Government. The tendering procedure for the Ardhi Inatittit.'s btduitg
will be similar to that of other civil works. EquipsWet,/vehiclW tbtal1img
about US$150,000 will be procured through the Go 'er      ts usual PzMeftft.
3.15       Disburserents of funds from the credit would be on the follui2ft
basis:
(a)  65% of the total expenditure for civil works i.e., infiztructtze,
cosmunity facilities, and the Ardhl Institute buildina, agaifst
paymet certificates endorsed by the consultants sad apPtrv d by
Ardhi;
(b)  OOZ of the foreign or 75% of the local expenditure for co ultants'
services costs, including the training program;
(c)  100% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or 65% of the
ex-factor-j price of locally manufactured equipmunt/vehiclAs,
or 50% of local expenditure for imported goods putrchked
locally;
1/    One possible grouping of contracts would be to tender ro*d and dratnSge
in one contract, water supply and sewage disposal in anothftr, pIoWmr in
the third, and comunmity facilities in the fourth.



- 15 -
(d) 50% of the amount disbursed by THB for construction loans; 1/
(e) 50O of the local expenditure for the pilot nutrition project
and monitoring.
Disbursement requests for (a), (b), and (c) will be fully documented. Disburse-
ments for (d) and (e) will be made against a certificate of expenditure, the
iocumentation for which is not submitted for review, but is retained by the
l'orr(ower and available for inspection by IDA during the course of project
supervisioin missions. Any undisbursed funds at the closing date of Decemn~r
31, 1978 will be cancelled, unless IDA agrees to their use for additional
construction loans through the THB. Estimated disbursement schedule is shown
in ANNEX 5, Table 5.
3.16       To begin construction as soon as possible, Government has engaged
consultants (COWIconsult) for the detailed engineering of the infrastruc-
ture prior to the approval of the proposed Credit, and requested IDA for
retroactive financing. The terms of reference for the consultants were
agreed by IDA and work began in January, 1974. It is recommended that retro-
active financing amounting to US$200,000 be included in the Credit.
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Executing Agency
4.01       The Borrower will be the Government of Tanzania.  The Executing
Agency will be Ardhi, which will have overall responsibility for the project.
rhe Sites and Services Section, within Ardhi, will be responsible for plan-
ning, designing, and construction of the infrastructure, and community facili-
ties in consultation with concerned ministries. The local administration
(i.e. plot allocation, collection of repayments, etc.) will be handled by
the respective Regional Land Development Offices (RLDO). The THB, will give
loans to individual plot-occupants and cooperatives for house coastruction.
4.02       The Sites and Services Section is presently understaffed.  It has
Lthre architect/planners, one Tanzanian and two expatriates, financed by
bilateral-aid agencies, and a UNDP advisor as Acting Administrator. In
addition to the Administrator, the Section is authorized four architect/
planners, three Town Planning Assistants, three civil/sanitary engineers, a
Land Officer, two Operations Officers, and several technicians (statistician,
site officers, inspectors, artisans and draftsmen). The Government is working
f    l<>  htelp TUS in the early stages of the program, it is proposed that
IDA disburse 50% of the loan amount paid by THB, even though Ii)A's
,:oT1 rihutior. to TUB is only 11% of its total need.



actively to fill these positions, and .,as assured 'DA that this will be com-
pleted by June 1'375. Recruitment of experienced civil/sanitary engineers is
the most difficult problem. 1/ In June 1974, two expatriate engineers are ex-
pecced co be seconded to the section.
4.03       Tne three-year town plann4li):, curriculum of the Ardhi Institute
has been re-evaluated to enable! the S^t.;s and Services Section to develop
its capacity for project implementation. It has been rescructured to reflect
the practical needs of Tanzania's urban areas. The National Sites and Serv-
ices Program will be given priority in the assignment of Institute graduates.
4.04       The Sites and Services Section has engaged COWIcoasult for detailed
engineering and conscruction supervision of all sites.  To assist the regions
in local administration, the Section will set up a Site Office on each site,
staffed with a Site Officer, building laspector, and fundis (artisAns) who
wil! provide advice and technical assistance in self-help construction and
building techniques.
4.05      T'he RLDOs hiave direct responsibility in the regions for project
administration, including land acquisition (compensation payments), advertis-
ing and processing of plot applications, plot allocation, issuing of Rights-
of-Occupancy, and collection of ground rents, premia and fees. The RLDO also
assists in the formation of housing cooperatives, coordinates with local offices
and agents of the ThB, and works with the Site Offices. The RLDO consists of
three functional uniLs, i.e. Lands, Surveys and Town Planning. In Dar es
Salaam, the staff includes five Officers and twelve Assistants. The RLDOs in
the three regions included in the project are adequateli staffed. Additional
11.1.t! *idw Liistrative staff are being trained by the Ardhi Institute to carry
out the Plrogram in other regions.
4.06       rhe THB is governed by a 'aoard of Directors, consisting of eight
to twelve members appointed for unspecified terms.by the Minister of Finance.
One Director is tho Principal S_.cretarv of Ardhi.  The Cliairman is appointed
iv the President. The General Manager, t-he chief executive officer. is ap-
pointed by the Minister of Finance after c:onsultation with the Board.
4.07       The THB Qain-.ls Lts Head Office in Dar es Salaam, a branch office
in M1oshi, and representatives in several other towns. The former PHFCT staff
cpara 2. 16) forms the admi.ist;.-zive an.t operative nucleus of the THB. Be-
cause THb Ihas broader objectives and functions than the PHFCT, additional
staff are being recruited andk rrained as rapidly as possible. To date,
wicth a total staff of over 100, .L. is three years ahiead of its staffing
i!,w1:.lni: . as n,  ?r-cri:;g   r a  Lt Che university level.  Each
. -r, Ab.ut 12                    .1tUd'r-. .ri ;.-   d:road for engineering education.
-'.:1 t:n ilt'c'ring, ut'.,rP' X rti    ' L ca.Liamence this year at toe University
!);1: e~; '.,.. .



- i; -
plan. In cases where qualified Tanzanians are not available, non-citizens
are hired to fill vacant positions while citizens are being crained. Under
a technical assistance arrangement, SIDA Is financing three experts: (i) a
bank administration sp?cialist to develop procedures for handling salal loans;
(ii) a savings promotion expert; and (iii) an engineer/architect or building
technician to develop raethods for evaluating applications for construction
loans (especially self-help construction) and providing the applicants with
technical advice. All three experts begani work in February 1974.
B. Administration
Plot Allocation
4.08       The R.LD, working with the Sites and Services Section, will process
applications for Rights-of-Occupancy and allocate plots. Project information
will be circulated to persons on the NHC and Mzizima District waiting lists
and disseminated through the bureaucratic and TANU frameworks, places of em-
ployment, and by mass media. Interested parties will apply through the RLDOs
or Ardhi, who will forward all applications to already functioning District
Allocation Committees in the regions. The composition of these committees
varies nationwide, lut 'isually Includes representatives from the RLDOs, TAN1'
officials, and members of national organizations such as the United Women of
ranzania.  Selection criteria give preference to inter alia: (i) persons pre-
viously displaced by public works projects; (ii) the number of immediate
iependents; (iii) applicants who do not own a house in the town; (iv) the
length of cime on one of the above waiting lists; (v) employment in Dar es
Salaam, Mwanza or Mbeya; and (vi) households with monthly incomes above TSh750.
4.09       The RL9) will issue long-term Rights-of-Occupancy 1/ (25 years) to
allottees in new areas. Plot-occupants in squatter improvement areas wiil
ilave the ortioln of applving for either a short-term or long-term Right.
The Rights will be issued on an owner-occupier basis; however, sub-letting
of rooms will be permitted. Should the plot-owner decide to sell his house,
u,is Right reverts back to the Government for re-issuance to a prospective
buyer meeting eligibility criteria. If the Government later decides to
withdraw the Right to use the land for public purposes, the plot-occupant
will be eligible for compensation and assistance in relocating.
1/    In Tanizania, all land is Government owned.  In high-density areas, .
short-term Right-of-Occupancy is issued to occupants of surveyed plots
entitling tinem to use the plot on a year-to-year basis. No building
standards apply, and so-called "traditional" construction is used, con-
si5ting of bush poles, mud, thatch, etc., and self-help techniques. The
annual charge to the plot occupant is almost negligible, and the urban
services provided are minimal. In low-density areas, long-term Righits-
of-Occupancy are issued up rt  99 vears, (usually 33 years), and only
"permanent" buildings can be constructed.  Levies on property in these
areas are lased on a percentage of the capital value of land.



4.10       A long-term Right-of-Occupancy is required to undertake permanent
construction.  Upon issuance of this Right, national building codes apply 1/
and a minimum value or cost of the house to be constructed is stipulated as
a covenant or condition (usually about TShM5,000 in high density areas).
While a long-term Right will be issued to the plot-occupants, the Government
waived application of building codes anu abolished the covenant for this and
future projects. The high construction standards and accompanying covenant
would result in unrealistic costs. Tlhe Sites and Services Section and the
National Housing anad  uilding Research Unit (NHBRU) in Ardhi, in collaboration
with THB, are now preparing ihouse designs, building standards, and technical
specifications to meet Ardhi's criteria and the low-income housing budget.
rhese criteria will be used as interim measures in sites and services areas,
and are intended to provide the basis for a complete revision of Taazania's
building code.  flae Government has assured IDA that the revised building code
will be drafrcd by December 1976.
Construiction Loans
4.11       TUB offers loans to low-income people at 6% interest for up to 20
years for house zonssruction or improvements. The advantages of increasing
this rate inave been discussed with the Government, i.e. (i) to mobilize domes-
tic savings, and (ii) to increase the replicability of sites and services proj-
ects. Neverthxeless, IDA has accepted THB's prevailing rate because: (i) it is
in accordance with Government policy to subsidize low-income housing and, since
IDA's proposed contribution is small relative to THB's need, the Government
.Jec.id?d noc to change this policy, and (ii) a new rate for onlending IDA funds
would complicate the administration of THB's lending program and create equity
problems .zmong its borrowers.
4.12       The rHB has prepared lending policies and procedures for housing
cooperatives and individual applicants in sites and services areas. In
making loans, THB must satisfy itself that the borrower can repay without
undue hardship, and that adequate provision exists for the enforcement of
the repayment. Each counstruction loan application must be accompanied by
a long-term Right-of-Occupancy, and be secured by first mortgages. Loans
for lhouse improvements iaeed not be secured by a first mortgage, if the appli-
cant's employer or anotiher suitable source or means can be provided for secur-
ity.  Hiouseholds are er. o,raged to join cooperatives, because it is felt that
this approach fosters commutnal living, results in lower-cost housing and
facilitates loan payment colleccion. When considering applications from
individual plot-occupants, household incomes are taken into account (i.e.
incomes of husband and wife), as are Prospective rental incomes. The THB's
1.~. ;,  'ri>*ihr.-s provid&l  f,r an Lnp.'r limit, for sofr loans which can be
. .;i' t8 WHr  t-to- ti; iWt~ Po acuo i!iarico 1,;1 hois inp, construction costs.  For
.C(!q.'L.70r-! Li,.l J0,11aws will h?%ve an upper linit of TSh
U, ) b), cove'ring 6uilding materials costs anid up to 20% for specialized labor,
. . framing for dloors and wildows.  Cash disbursements on the loans are tied
1/   'ranganyika, Townshlps Ordinance, the Township (building) Rules.



- 19 -
to a construction and inspection schedule agreed to hv the plot-occupant
and the THR. The loans carry a one-year grace period. When considering
npplfcations from housing cooperatives, lhousehold and prospertive rental in-
comes are also taken into account, but in a collective sense. Thus, as co-
operative members, very low-income households have access to credit, secured
hv the cooperative.  The loan covers the needs of all the cooperative m.embers,
and arrangements for monthly payments, disbursements, construction and in-
speetion, and grace are similar to those of an individual loan-applicant,
although thev are handled through the cooperative.
Maintenance
4.13      Operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and communitv
faciliries is the responsibility of the regions, and funds for these pur-
poses are provided in their annual budgets.  For the infrastructure, oper.-
tion and maintenance work is carried out by the regional field staff of the
respective ministries and parastatals, (i.e. the Ministry of Water Develo-
ment and Power, Ministry of Communications and Works, etc.).  For the com-
munitn  facilities, staffing, operation and maintenance is carried out by
staff in the regional administrations, under the direction of the Regional
Fdii;rtlon nfficer, Regional Health Officer, etc.  Estimates for the recurrent
cosrs for infrastructure and community facilities are given in Table 4. The
Covernmenr has Aereed to provide all recurrent costs required for the project.
Moni torinR
4.14      The prolect will be monitored bv universitv students contracted by
the Feonomic Research Bureau of the Universitv of Dar es Salaam, to assess
whiether the project objectives are being reached.  Sample surveys will he
carried out during the disbursement period through 1q78 to ascertain inter
alia:
(3)  the rate of actual construction and occupancy vis-a-vis
exnected schedules for the project;
(h) the extent to which participating households receive
advJce and technical assistance in self-help construc-
tion and building techniques;
(r) ntumber of options for anun privies versus pit latrines:
(di) householdi incomes (wapes/salaries), rental incomes
(incltiding rents In arrears), and number of rooms
rented at start and end of project:
(e)  default raters on ground rents and construction loans;
(f)  cncrt  of hoijses built or inproved;



- 2n -
(g)  changes in job location due to project; and
(h)  utili7ation of cormunitv facilities (cormunitv
education centers, health centers and dispensaries,
Ptc.) and changes attributed eo project.
The moniroring will he aimed at quantifv7ing net gains generated by the project.
it will rrovide a feedback of information and data during the course of the
project, thereby facilitating flexibility in its administration. The informa-
tf on and data will also be used in the preparation of future sites and services
proiects in Tanzania and for comparison with other Bank/IDA financed sites and
services projects.
Training
4.15      Ardhi and the Sices and Services Section have relied heavily upon
expatriates and consultants for project preparation, and will continue to do
so during the early implementation phases.  Working with the regions and the
Tniu (whirh are already adequately staffed), the Section will be capable of
i1mpementing the proiect with technical assistance from the expatriates and
consRiltants.  A goal of the project is to reduce the dependence on external
assistance bv developing an in-house staff for carr-ing out an ongoing pro-
gram.  Fuinds are therefore included in the project for the training of tech-
nical staff needed to implement the remainder of the National Sites and
Serri ces Program.
It is proposed that Ardhi he responsible for housing and adminis-
rtrinf  tlho training program and for providing local staff and support.  The
Crodirt will provide financing for the consultants, training equipment and
marerials. A small training unit will be established within Ardhi Institute
to woirk with the consultants in Implementing the program, and for continuing
rhe program after the consultants' departure. The purpose of the proposed
progrram Is to train 12 civil/sanitary technical assistants over a two-year
period. Graduates of the program will be required to work five years in the
Sites anti Services Section, the regions, or as training instructors. The
consultants will provide a civil/sanitary engineer (24 man/months), highly
qualified and with tr.-. ning experience, to carry out the work in three
phases: (i) Phase I (three months), consisting of an inventory and evalua-
tiorl of available local manpower, training facilities, equipment and materials,
an<i the preparation of a training program, including inter alia its scope,
anrroach, methodology, curriculum, scheduling, and administration, as well
:1s a review of The program's content with Ardhi officials (ii) Phase II (2
ten-monrh coturses) for implementing the training program, and (iii) Phase III
(oner month) for eval,iating the program and instituting any required changes.
The] nrorram, which will Crain six technical assistants during each ten-month
coirse, will he geared to technical school graduates and include classroom
work an<l on-the-lob training (i.e. working with consultants on the preparation
of a fo]low-tip project).



- 21 -
C.  Financial Arrangements
Channelling of Fundis
4.17       Proceeds of the Credit will be made available to the Treasury which,
in turn, will make a portion available to Ardhi through its normal budgetary
procedures. The Treasury will onlend to THB its portion of the Credit at
3Z interest for 25 years. 1/ The Finance and Office Service Unit in the
Ministry prepares Ardhi's annual development and recurrent budgets. Working
closely with the Unit's Accounts Section, it will monitor all project expendi-
tures and prepare monthly reports for the Principal Secretary. Detailed records
of project expenditures will be maintained by the Housing Finance Services Sec-
tion in the Housing Development Division.
4.18       The Unit's Accounts Section will maintain separate records and
accounts for the project, geared to cost control and management operations.
Ardhi's Internal Auditor, who reports directly to the Principal Secretary,
will monitor the records and accounting system. The THB will also maintain
separate project records and accounts, recording all payments and receipts.
The Government lhas agreed that Ardhi's and the THB's records and accounts
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that
the accounts and auditor's reports will be submitted to the Association with-
in six months of the close of the financial years of Ardhi and the THB. The
TUIB will also submit to IDA its overall annual financial statement and audit
withiin six months of the close of its financial year. All cooperatives will
keep records and accounts of loans to individual households. These records
and accounts will be audited by the Registrar of Cooperatives within six
months of the close of the financial year of each cooperative.
4.19       The Treasury will submit certified Withdrawal Applications to IDA
covering specified percentages of the cost of the works completed, services
rendered and goods delivered. Based upon these Withdrawal Applications, IDA
will reimburse the Treasury.
4.20       Cash flow projections for the project are shown in Table 4.  Through
1973, the Government his expended TSh 4.68 million, including TSh 2.53 million
for compensation payments and TSh 2.15 million for consultants' services for
detailed engineering. The Government has requested IDA to retroactively
finance TSh 1.4 million of this latter amount. The Government has assured
IDA that its contribution totalling an estimated TSh 58.8 million (including
TSh 31.0 million for the THB) will be provided (Table 3). This is a gross
amount, and does not take into account the downpayments, ground rents, and
repayments on construction loans, amounting to an estimated TSh 14.5 million
which the Government will receive during the 1974-78 project disbursement
period (Table 4).
1/    Funds accruing to the THB as a result of the difference between its
borrowing and relending interest rates (i.e. 3%) will be used for fucure
loans, after covering administrative costs and any defaults in repayments.



4.21       Although the Government has a statitory commitment to provide the
THB with TSh 100.0 million (US$14.5 million), the timing and phasing of this
commitment is aot explicit in the founding charter and , to date, the Govern-
ment has paid in only TSh 22.5 million (US$3.2 million). It is estimated
that this project will require a total of TSh 45 million 1/ for cOl truction
loans. Taking into account expected contributions to the project fr- IDA
and other external financing and bilateral-aid agencies, totalling TSh 28.2
million, the THB will need an additional TSh16.8 million from other cash
sources (e.g., the Government, public deposits, and other externa1 sources).
L'ie. Government hias assured IDA that it will guarantee sufficient funds for
the THB to meet the demand for low-cost construction loans in accorAdnce with
the cash flow projections (Table 4).
Plot Charges
4.22       For pricing purposes, the infrastructure costs are allocated to
the residential and community facilities areas. The allocation criteria
charge all off-site infrastructure and consultants' costs to the Government.
The land acquisition and on-site infrastructure costs are shared by the resi-
dents and community facilities. The community facilities are charged in
direct proportion to the area they occupy, with the residential plot-occupant
paying the remainder, i.e., roughly 75% of the land acquisition and on-site
infrastructure costs. The chargeable cost per plot ranges from TSh 1,140 in
Manzese to TSh 4,600 in Mikocheni. The cost variation is primarily due to the
level of services provided. The cost allocation sauary for all sites is
given in ANNEX 5, Table 3.
4.23       An individual monthly plot payment includes the ground rent, repay-
ment of the construction loan, and utilities bill, if any. 2/ The ground rent
consists of: the statutory ground rent and the chargeable ground rent. The
statutory rent is a charge levied by the Treasury for the privilege of using
land, and is taken as 4% of its capital value. 3/ The chargeable rent is
l/    Assuming that 70% oF the households on new plots (10,600) will borrow
t:onstrniction loans tveraging TSh 5,000 and 50% of households in squatter
improvement areas (8,800) will borrow improvement loans averaging TSh 1,500.
2./   Tnicially, only Mi_cieni residents will be paying a utility charge for
the individual water connections. Furthermore, not all plot-occupants
will take a construction loan.
3/    Ttie capital value icz determined by a tendering and capitalized rent
sysrem (ANNEX 6).  Tn ,'nza, for example, where a unit capital value of  2
land is calculated as TSh 0.30/sq. ft. and the typical plot size is 288 m
(3,100 sq. ft.) the capital value per plot is TSh 930 (i.e. 0.30 x 3,100).
rhis amount accrtets to the Treasury.  It is included in the project's
plot clharges to x:;sess the reasonableness of the total charges and to
Jecermine whlether Low-ir.come households can afford to participate.



- 23 -
based on the cost of the infrastructure provided, 1/ and is calculated from
the on-site costs allocated among the residents and commumity facilities. 2/
>round rents range from TSh 12.7 per wonth in the squatter improvement area
of Manzese to TSh 37.8 for a new plot in Mikocheni. Ground rents for all
sites are listed in Table 5.
4.24      Construction loans are expected to range from TSb 4,000 to THB's
upper limit of TSb 10000 with a typical loan of TSh 5,000 amortized at 6%
for 20 years. The size of the construction loan will vary, depending upon
the type and size of house to be constructed and the individual's savings and
construction skills. A plot-occupant may build the house of his choice. How-
ever, to be eligible for a loan, the house must meet certain construction
specifications (para. 4.10). The estimated cost of an improved Swahili house
of soil-cement blocks, concrete floor and galvanized iron roof is TSh 7,000
and TSh-9,000 for a four-room and six-room house, respectively.
4.25      The total monthly payments for the new sites (including construction
loans of TSh 5,000) range from TSh 50.8 at Nyakato in Mwanza to TSh 88.6 in
Mikocheni. Table 6 shows estimates of the minimum monthly income required
to participate in the project. Households must meet not only a monthly income
requirement, but also have sufficient savings to meet the front-end costs,
which are an important expression of the household's commitment to the project.
These costs include a downpayment amounting to 10% of the assignable infrast-uc-
ture cost and se7eral small fees. The project is expected to reach well down
the household income scale (Table 2), and cover an intermediary range, includ-
ing about 70% of the total income distribution. In Dar es Salasm, about 16%
of the households enrn less than TSh 200 per month, whereas about 14% of the
households earn mwre than TSh 750 per month. Assuming that families spend
about 15% of their income on housing, the minimum monthly household income
required to afford a new plot ranges from TSh 340 in Nyakato to TSh 590 in
Mikocheni. Households with lower incomes, about TSh 200 per month, can afford
a plot by: (i) taking a smaller construction loan, (ii) renting rooms or
(iMi) cross-subsidization. 3/ Finally, very low-Income households will benefit
through the project's substantial squatter improvement component.
1/   The calculation of ground rent based upon capital value of land (statutory
ground rent) and infrastructure costs (chargeable ground rent) replaces
the arbitrary and outdated charging system employed for high density
areas. Previocsly, plot-occupants were charged a flat fee based upon a
fixed schedule (1963) for the privilege of using land. They were also
charged a fixed tax of TSh 100 per year to help defray the cost of urban
services.
2/   In Sinza, for example, the assignable infrastructure cost per plot is
TSh 1,800. A 10% down payment will be required and the resaining amount
will be amortized over 25 years at 92 interest, amounting to TSh 13.6
per month.
3/   For example, higher charges could be levied on plot-occupants with pre-
ferred locations (e.g., frontage on Class-B roads) permitting a reduction
in charges for plots further away from infrastructure and community
facilities.



- 24 -
Collection of Payments
4.26       In orcer to improve efficiency in making payment3 and collecting
ground rents, while at the same time maintaining centralized financlal re-
sponsibility, the Government has introduced a new payment and collection sys-
tem for sites and services projects. Upon acceptance of a Right-of-occupancy,
recipients will pay to the regions a premium (10% of the assignable infrastruc-
ture cost), fees for the certificate of occupancy, registration, survey, deed
plan, and stamp duty, and ground rent for the first month. The regions will
forward these collections through the central banking system to the Traswury.
Summary information for each site will be sent to the Treasury monthly, with
copies to Ardhi's Accounts Sections.
4.27       Plot-occupants employed by the Government, parastatals and busines-
ses with ten or more employees, estimated at aboue 70Z of the urban labor
force, will make subsequent monthly payments through a salary deduction sys-
tem, a common practice in Tanzania. Employers of plot-occupants with con-
struction or improvement loans will make loan repayments to the THh and ground
rent payments to the Treasury. The THB will keep the loan repayments for fu-
ture loans to plot-occupants in sites.and services areas. Employers of plot-
occupants without THB loans will make only ground rent payments to the
Treasury. The Treasury will provide copies of these collections to the re-
spective regions and a summary statement to Ardhi.
4.28       Plot-occupants without a salary deduction option will make ground
rent payments to tlhe region (or its Site Offices).  The region vill forward
the pavments to the Treasury through thie central banking system, with a sum-
marv statement ro Ardhl. For those with loans, loan repayments will be made
directlv to the TTuB or to the cooperatives, if a member.
4.29       The Site Officers, cooperatives, regions, Ardhi (Accounts Section)
and the THb will all monitor the payment system, and assist in the collection
process. In the event of default, the region and the THB will decide upon
appropriate measures to be taken, the last resort being the withdrawal and
reissuance of the Rights-of-Occupancy and the take-over of any plot improvements.
V. JUSTIFICATION
5.U1       The objectives ot t.;  proposed project are to:
(a) demorstrate the suitability of the sites and ser-
vices approach ..nd squatter area upgrading for
meeting the needs of low-income urban dwellers; and
(b)  stren.then the Covernment's institutional capa-
city to plan and implement an ongoing national
sitre and .--,rvices program.



- 25 -
5.02       The project is expected to generate a wide range of benefits in-
cluding (i) increased employment in the construction and building materials
industries, (ii) improvements in living conditions and health standards, and
*(iii) savings to the Government and low-income households due to more effi-
cient planning and plan implementation. In order to permit an easily quanti-
fiable and conservative evaluation, however, the economic benefits have been
measured in terms of the estimated market rental values for the dwelling units
to be constructed. The construction of traditional Swahili houses and the
rental of rooms is common in Tanzania (para 2.07) and it is expected that
this practice will continue at rents unaffected by the proposed project. It
is felt that rental values are a useful surrogate for the many locational
criteria low-income liouseholds take into account when lowking for a place to
live.
5.03       The estimated market rental values used in the calculations for the
planned areas ranged from TSh 18-24 per room per month, depending upon the
location, infrastructure provided, and other characteriatics of the parti-
cular site. In the squatter settlements, the increase in market rental
value attributable to the project is TSh 3 per room per month. These rental
estimates are conservative so as to take into account renting costs, turnovers,
etc. Different sized houses were assumed, i.e. 4-6 rooms, making the estimates
of the benefits even more conservative. The project costs include the land
acquisition costs (compensation payments), 1/ on-site infrastructure costs
(75% asisigned to the plot-occupants and 25% to the Government for the community
facilities), and house construction costs (including a shadow price for self-help
labor). The infrastructure costs include contingencies totalling about 47%.
5.04       The evaluation involves the comparison of the benefits and costs
(both capital and recurrent) expected to be generated by the project over
its economic life, reduced to their present values. The investment criterion
employed was the internal economic rate of return. All benefits and costs
have been measured on a with and without basis, net of taxes, duties, and
similar levies. The economic life of the project was assumed to be 25 years,
corresponding to the useful physical life of the basic infrastructure, as
well as the commur.ity facilities and an improved Swahili house. The rates of
return for the various sites range from 10.4% to 14.5% (Table 7). The relative
attractiveness of squatter upgrading is because the benefits start to accrue
earliezr in tlhe time stream than for new areas. Squatter upgrading is appropriate
only when the areas are well-located and the inhabitants have built sound housing,
l/   This analysis assumes that the opportunity cost of land in the three
centers included in the project is very low and is adequately covered
by the inclusion of the compensation payments. Land suitable for low-
cost nousing is readily available, and the sites selected for the proj-
ect have no appreciable differential in vlaue from many other sites on
which people are squatting. In the case of Dar es Saiaam, the selected
sites are located in accordance with the Master Plan.



- 26 -
community improvements, and viable neighborhoods. It is iAportant to regard
the provision of newly serviced areas and squatter upgrading as integral.com-
ponents of the same program, for the long-term success of the Govexoimni
housing and community facilities programs depends upon  -ctcad  tng tbe1a,W-
coers to the urban areas as vell as the existing population. -oly li  this
way can the Government avoid high redevelopment and rseattllct coats -in
squatter areas which are badly-located, dilapidated, or otherwsieiniable.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REAM(ED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:
(a)  fill all vacancies within Ardhi's Sites and Servics
Section by June, 1975 (para 4.02);
(b) give priority to the National Sites and Services Pro-
gram in assigning town planning graduates of Ardhi
Institute (para 4.03);
(c) comlete the draft revision of Tanzania's building code
by December, 1976 (para 4.10);
(d) maintain separate records and accounts for the project
(including the TUB) which will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to
the Association within six months of the close of the
fin3ncial years of Ardhi and the THB (para 4.18);
(e)  provide all recurrent costs (para 4.13) as well as
all additional funds required for the project (par&
4.20); and
(f)  guarantee sufficient funds for the TIB to meet the
demand for low-cost construction loans in accocd-
ance with the cash flow projection and project
implemenLeetion schedule (pars 4.21). -
1.02       In order to begin construction as soon.as possible, retroactive
financing amounting to US$200,000 should be provided for consultants' ser-
vices (para 3.16).
6.03       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$8.5 million equivalent over 50 years, including a 10-year grace period.



Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Population of Ten Regional Centers
Average Annual
1967 Census    Growth Rate       Estimated 1973
.-                    Population     (1957-1967)       Population
Dar es Salaam                      272,800           8%            l491,000
Tanga                              60,900            5%              91,400
Mwanza                              34L,900          6%              55,800
Arusha                              32,300           11%             35,500
IMoshi                              27,000            8%            148,600
Morogoro                            25,300            6%             40,500
Dodoma                              23,600            6%             37,800
Tabora                              21,000            3%             27,300
Mtwara                             20,1400           3%              26,500
Mbeya                               12,500            7%             21,200
TOTAL         530,700           65%             875 600
Source: Ministry of Lands, i{ou4ng and Urban Development



Table 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Estimate of Household Income Distribution,
1971 Sample Updated to 1973, Dar es Salaam..
Wage/Salary
Category                      Number of                 Percent Distribution
(TSh's/month)                 Households                of Households
0-   100                        86                             6
101 -   200                     143                             10
201 -   300                     512                             3h
301 -   400                     296                             20
401 -   500                      125                             8
501 -   750                      125                             8
751 - 1,OOO                      57                              4
1,001 - 1,500                      52                              4
1,501 -                             84                             6
1,480                           100
Source:  Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development.



Tabl.e 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Project Financing
(in thousand TSh)
lotal     Governiment,    IDli           , IDA
Cost      Financetd      Financed        Fin&=nced
Land ACqluisition              4,530       4,530            _              0
Infrastructure                28,887      10,110         18,777           65
Conmmnity Facilities          11,213       3,925          7,288           65
Technical Assistance           8,750       2,188          6,562           75
Equipment/Vehicles             1,070         -            1,070         100
TH--Construction Loans        45,000      31,000         14,000           31
Contingencies                 20,200       7,070         13,130           65
IOTAL      119,650      58,823         60,827           50.8
=             -            .    __.- =8



?4ATIO;iAL $f1rn AIID S.n  '  ?:s
Cash  lo. Projeot1t rl
(la. )illog  tSn)
1913      1974        a75 ._6 WT                                  19l79      1930-               3        1991 1994 9     2000-?0'3
1. OtOVEO.bO(5
Itevenuets
$iE-Mo    pq_oo Ito                                            0.7L      1.44       o 47
Btetutoe7 {roued r.nts  V                                                3.37       o .8        o.61.     0.64         o.64          O...           0.6t4            o.64
Chargeable ground rents J                                                0.55       1.58        2.86      2.86          2.86        2.86            2.8.6            7.
8u~,-toLte                                                     0.71      2.36       2.63        3.50      3.50         3.50          3.50           3.50             3.50
Ep endituro&
,L i R d I-c'q-uT a i t I or,          2.53       2.00
nfrentnacture                                      1.20       l8.30     22.50       1.so
CanaunttY facilities2                                          4,60     11.55
Teohntcel assifetezc,                   1.50/      2.00        2.25      1.75       0.75        0.50
NzapmentftV.iclas                                              o,5       0.53
ROPYeAts to r' 0A                                                        0.02       0.04        0.06      0.o6         0.06          0.15           0.29             0.79
Sub-total                               4.03       5.20       25.94     36.60       2.29        0.6       0.06          o.o6         0.15           0.29             0.29
i% fienced J                                       3.40       17.20     24.00       1.50        0.50
Cwer,f,nt ?VanCed                       4.03       1.80        8.714    12.60       0.79        0.06      0.06           0.06       0.15            0.29 
Balance
,Nevewu*  . Govt. UrPendttxes         -_4.03      -1.80       -t.03    -10.24       1.3.4 t3.44           *3.44  .9.'.              -3.35          .3.21              t
R*C!*reDt CO .t                                                                                    2.80      2.80          2.80        2.80           2.80              2.8O
2. TAw. NnS1W sK
Ol1tf lows
la=# disbursed  /                                              6.80      9.00       9.00         lI.2X     9.0                                           8
Rpaymts to Ir*%aury 3/                                                                                                   0.13        0.13           o.iX -'
sub-ttatLl                                                     6.80      9.o0        9.00        11.20     9.0           0.13        0.13           0.13
Inflow
IDA disbuwrents                                                3.4       4.0         4.50         1.6
L0cn Rep     te nt                                                       -44       1.6O          3.19     3.84.         3.84       3.84           3.84
Sub-totaL                                                      3.4       4.94       6.114         4.79     3.84          3.84        3.84           3.g4
Balance
Wlow-O*utnso                                                  .3-4      -4.06      -2.K6         -9.6o  -14.76          -3.71       *3.71          *3.71
3    s Aa.       155 dflaef t on repqets,
G  overnmnt ba  expmrw1d TShI5 3ilflcm  oan  eaultants ervice, vwhich vi  b. financed retroactively by rDA in 19'74.
/  Includes rep%yunta for 10k'1 cotributioe to THl.
/  ID tfinain  in accord4nc  witb par. 3.13.
/ Recurrent cota for aintenence ot ifrrltructure  nd coammuity facilities (including staffing) vill be financed out
or annual brdgt of respective orgenizatins.
Assuing 15, 20. 20, 215 and 20 didburacnta In the Iet, 2nd, 3rA, 1th en 5tbk year.
Vl TIM WiU rega  tbe ?reurY Lt 3S interlat for 25 years, with a 5.yelr grace period (1915-79).
Repaymnt period on,. to 1999.



TAIuLA2A
IATI CAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Average ,rcund F<ents and Monthly Payments
(in TSh)
SINZA        MIrKOCHE: .       KIJITONYAMA    .'4AJiZE:S          NYAYAITC           Ki.ANiJELWA
ITBE.                                     ,            DAR                DAR                 DAR         MWAN"A               M.BEYA
1.   Capital value of plot 1/                             930             930              1,200              930           930                   930
2.   Statutory ground rent/month   /                     3.10            3.10               4.00             3.10          3.10                  3.10
3.   Plot development cost  V/                          2,400           6,525              3,910            1,63L         2,180                 1,115
4.  Assi able infrastructure                            1,300           4,600              2,930            1,110         1,575 1,290
cost/plot ]
5.   Plot cost mainus downpayment (10%)                 1,620           4,1L0              2,635            1,140         1,420                 i,53
6.   Chargeable ground rent per month  /                13.60           34.70              22.10             9.60         1.1.90                10.90
7.  Total ground rent/month (2+6)                       16.70           37.B0              26.10            12.-          15.00                 1L.00
8.   Average construction loan paymaent/month  j        35.o0           35.30              35.80            _  __         35.80                 _ 
9.  Utilities bill 6/                                   ----            15.00
10.  TOTAL MGOITHLY PAYMENTS                             52.50           o.60               61.90             12.70         50.80                1L.oo
1/ See para 4.23.
2/ AMNEX 5, Table 1:  Infrastructure and Land Acauisition cost.
2/ 751, of iLand Acouissition and on-site infrastruct.-re co'- ,      5, :-ble 3.
4/ ;-,ount of (5) :- rtiized at 9g interest over 25 years.
5/ Assuming averI: e c-nrtructicon loan of' TSh5,000) >ortizerl '.zr  ?) years a- QN% interest.
' Cnl;, Mikochei ~.- -   .as irnivi,i .'   - ;ni2s.



Table 6
TI WAz WA
NATIONAL SITES AND SIICES PROJECT
1Lniim Household Annual Income Requirements
for Participation in Pro3ect
ALTEM{ATIVE DISamNT RATE
6%         9%        -12%
D:isbursements Per Household                        823         1,033      1,263
statutory ground rent I/                         37            37         37
Invested capital_2/ (TSh9,270 project ave.)     786           996      1,226
TIfrasttructure (TSh2,420)                189           246        309
Constractio   (Tsh6,850)                  597           750        917
Receipts Per Household 3/                           480           480        480
Net Household DisburseuBts                          343           553        783
Equivalent Annual  nL2m Household Income 4/      2,287         3,687      5,220
1/ Statutory groud rent is 4% anuaJ.v of the capital value of land.
It accrues to the Treaaury as general revenue, and is not reoavsred by the
project. It is included in this analysis to determdne what level of inco  is
required for participation in the project.
2/ Includes on-aite residential development coata amrtized over 25 yeas and
total cost of structures amrtized over 20 years. Asms averag for all sites
excluding squatter iiprovement sites.
3/ Assumes average household is able to rent two room for TSh240 aannasl;y per
room, net of all rental expenses.
! Assumss housebolds spend 15% of maual housebhld incoie for swlter.
Sources   fnistry of Lands, Housiug and Urban Developmit and Ban/ID
estimates.



Table 7
TANZANIA
NATINAL SITE AND SBVICBS PEDJBCT
itenral EconomiC  Rates of Return
for
All Project Sites
SITE                                              Internal B:ononic Rate
of Return (percent)
Dar es SaLam
Sinsa                                                  12.1
1Uckocheni                                             10.4
XtjitanVana                                            1 1.
MAuzese A and B (Squatter Improveuents)                14.5
Nyakato                                                11.0
Mbeya
wbanjeiwa (Squatter Inprovemnts)                       12.6
Sourme: NLnstrY of Lands, Housing and Urban Development and Bank/IDA
estimates.






ANEX 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PWECT
The Taania Housing Bank
A. BackgrLound and Purpose
1.        The Tanzania Housing Bank (THB) was established by the. TA*xania
Housing Bank Act, 1972.  It replaced the Permnnent Housing Finance.-.Copany
of Tanzania (PHFCT), a comercial institution jointly ownd by- the,'wegpent
and the Commonvwelth Development Corporation (U.K.) set..up in 1Q68 to- fanee
medium and high-bcost housing. The PEPCT funds were expensive bsaguse tqey
were borrowed at high interest rates from the public, Government,,4nd-frao
abroad.  The resulting high housing costs and rents led to pLublc c,1Ati4M
and the subsequent takeover of the mFRCT's assets, liabiliti,s3 Aflde4iotns
by the THB (Table 1).
2.        The objectives and functions of the THB are given in,.$ection 4 of
the Act (Attachment 1). The. main objectives are summarixed as. foflws:
(a) to mobilize local savings and external resourcas forh.busing
development;
(b)  to prowote housing development by making technical. uad:f4ancial
assistance available for sites and services projGts, h.8QAng
cooperatives, uJamaa villages, and other .mmezm-oecupd3houeing
schems;
(c)  to ensure the implementation of the Gover=u:nt's hus.ng,_and
building policies, promote the use of local. materi9ls, encqugage
the construction of housing-types best suitad-to local, cndi-
tions, and foster the minAmizing of building.c.ts  nd. rq4;
and
(d)  to administer any special funds which may. be placedeat-the
disposal of the Bank and wudertake other rlg4sdAMR4C.t%4
assigned by the MNinLter of Finance after ci.me,LtetA.n.,th
the President;
B. Organization and Administration
3.        The THB is a parastatal of the Treaury, i.e., a corporate body :wth
more than 50% of its share capital owned by the Goverment.  It is gSavoned,by
a Board of Directors consisting of eight to twelve ==bers,appoLe*d4for-AM-
specified terms by the Minister of Finance. The Chaizan .is. appoiptwd.4y-,the
President (Chart 8184).  The Directors are persons with Jwavledge amd xPriuc



1
Page 2
in economic and financial matters, town planning, estate managemnt, buiJ4ing
industry, and other fields the Minister considers relevaAt.   Q  D tor is
the Principal Secretary of the $Mi try of Lad , Houpiug ..n  Ybpa
(Ardhi), which largely determnes the Bank's policiesapd. _,
4.        The Gairal Manager is appointed by the Minaster of Fli#.zi, afar
consultation with the Board. He is the chief executive offi   , a
for the Bank's day-to-day uuagent, businss as 4 affairs. At              t  t4e
General Manager is assisted by a Housing Advisor from Soa
5.        The THB's organizatiou consists of four  depatm.$ ii tM   t
Office in Dar es Salasa, a Branch Office in Moshi, and reprasp$tsle  ip
several other towns.  The Ad-inistration Department i8 respong4"le fpr pe-
sonnel matters and general services. It also handles the secrtayi41-mattars
for the Board, and its Manager serves as the Board's Sec etary,   he  4paAc
Department is responsible for the Bank's financill plan.ing, 'Dna NW r -rpay-
ments, investments and borrowings, accounting, sabilizatioaapd ad  ipa.tration
of saving. accounts, and internal audit. The reopons hility for. t oV.1l
supervision of the Bank's lending and guaranteeing activits  ArAtP v$4irh the
Operations Departmnt.  The Departmnt deals with loan app1iqctio.up anltheir
appraisal from the technical, economic, and social points of .vi!. It l also
concerned vith providing advice to clients obtaining securitis  for lpm,
preparing loan agreemets and reports, and supervising projects. Finally,
the Promotion Department ensures that the Bank's operatieqi arzcarrisd out
in accordance with the Government's developmaent policies n4di41rectives. It
promotes the savings and loan opportunities of the Bank, and .s9 ."aand
analyses statistics, prepares studies, and saintain  l$aiJaiJbboRJ4
agencies and institutions throughout the country.
6.        The TIM has retained the old PHCIT office in)hlsi s ,a brApch
office, and intends to establish branch offices elsh.re ,p,  .          s- pbe.
The Bank has also negotiated agreemts with cooperativa 'p1.   in 2         ,
!U:vara, and Singida, which will act as THW S localrprap*94ws ,o.Rtil the
opening of branch offices is warranted.
7.        Table 2 shows the number and breakdown of the Bank!sstaff in 1973,
as well as its staffing plan through 1977. The former-PHFVT .&*f fpa.t4e
administrative and operative nucleus of the TUE, bkut, in that the-To '..
broader objectives and functions, additional staff are,behag4 q          .ud
trained as rapidly as possible.  Because par statals are *bU!;to,Pw ph1i4r
wages and salaries, the THEB is experiencing minimum difficulty -i.n c r0cr4t#g,
and to date, with a total staff of over 100, is three yoess.Abhd,of its
staffing plan.  In cases vhere qualified Tanzanans are not, a41MIJeA, a-
citizens are hired to fill the vacant positions uhlJ  c
trained.
8.        The Swedish International Development Authority (SIp*) isaf$J n-
cing three experts for the THB under a technical assistace ara _t,
(i) a bank administration specialist to develop procedures for- baMWU apall
loans; (ii) a savingp pro otion expert; and (iii) an angiAxelJW 1',ct. or



ANEX 1
Page 3
building technician to develop methods for evaluating applications for con-
struction loans (especially self-help construction) and providing the applicants
with technical advice. All three experts began work in February 1974.
C. Lending Operations and Policies
9.        The T9B offers two major types of loans:
(a)  Soft Housing Loans:  These loans are offered at 6% interest
for up to 20 years to help meet the needs of low-income people.
Applications from housing cooperatives and other groups for
construction of low-cost, self-help housing or house improvements
are encouraged because it is felt that this group approach
fosters couuunal living, results in lower-cost housing, and
improves the collection of loan repayments. Prospective
borrowers include the National Housing Corporation (NHC), _1/
housing cooperatives and other groups, and ujamaa villages,
as well as low-income individuals.
(b)  Comercial Loans:  These loans are offered at 9% interest for
up to 10-20 years, for individuals or institutional borrowers
who wish to build expensive houses, comercial buildings such
as offices, shops, warehouses, etc., and premises for carrying
on couiercial activities related to housing or construction
such as contracting and manufacturing of building materials.
They include loans to the NRC for constructing medium and high-
cost houses or flats for sale or renting, as well as medium
and high-income individuals.
10.       The THB's operations are guided by its stated objectives and func-
tions (para 2) and accepted banking principles. It only invests in projects
which are technically, organizationally, administratively, and financially
feasible and socially desirable. All loan applications for housing construc-
tion nust be accompanied with a long-term Right-of-Occupancy issued by the
regional administrations, and all construction loans must be secured by first
mortgages.  The THB takes -Asures to ensure that the proceeds of any loan
are used solely for the purposes for which it is granted, and that due atten-
tion is paid to economy and efficiency.
1/   The National Housing Corporation (NHC) is a parastatal of Ardhi and
is responsible for designing and building low and medium-cost housing
for sale or rental.



Page 4
11.       During its first year, the THEB worked closely with Ardhi In the
development of the GovernDent's National Sites and ServicRs Proggra.
THB will provide soft loans for construction for low-income bouasbolds par-
ticipating in sites and services projects throughout the coatry. TLading
policies and procedures particularly suited for individuals and cooperative
grOups in such projects have been prepared.  In making lomas, the TEB mwt
satisfy itself that the borrower can repay without undue hardship, and that
adequate provisions for the enforcement of the repayment exist. When con-
sidering applications from individual plot-occupants, household incomes are
taken into account (i.e., incomes of husband and wife), as are prospective
rental incomes if rental space is to be included. Cash disburaemets on the
loans are tied to an agreed construction and inspection schedule by the plot-
occupant and the THB. Loans carry a one-year grace period. When consider-
ing applications from housing cooperatives, household and prospective rental
incomes are also taken into account, but in a collective sense. Thus, as
cooperative members, very low-income households have access to credit, secured
by the cooperative. The loan covers the needs of all the cooperative meibers,
and arrangements for monthly payments, disbursements, covatruction and in-
spection, and grace are similar to those of an individual loa-applicant.
12.       Working with a Housing Cooperative. Expert financed by the Norwegian
Agency for Development (NORAD) and an Associata Housing Cooperative Expert
financed by the UNDP, the THB is presently halping Ardhi prepare model documents
to assist in establishing housing cooperatives, i.e. modal by-laws, tenancy
contract, agenda and minutes of initial meeting, application for registration,
letter of deferment, letter of trausfer of shares vith mesbership and tenance
contracts, etc. In collaboration with Ardhi's Sites and Services Section and
the National Housing and Building Research Unit (NHBU), the THB in helping to
formulate house designs, building standards, and technical specifications,
designed to meet both the Goverument's economic life criterion of 25 years for
houses built in sites and services projects and the housing budget of low-
income households. The house designs include simple layouts for single and
multiple family units, and provide for the use of a variety of building materials
including the traditional materials (bush poles, mud, thatch, etc.), stabilized
soil-cement blocks, concrete blocks, burnt clay bricks, and corrugated iron,
and aluminum roof sheets. These house designs, building standards, and tech-
nical specifications will be used as interim measures in sites and services
areas, and will provide the basis for the complete revision of Tanxania's'
building rules which are ill-su4 ted due to high standards and specifications.
13.      In the implementation of sites and services projects, the IHB will
work with the NHBRU and the Site Offices set up by the Sites and Services
Section to provide advice and technical assistance in self-help construction
and building techniques. The THB will also help in monitoring and carrying
out the Government 's payment and collection system for sites and services
projects. Plot-occupants employed by the Government, parastatals, and large
businesses (10 employees or more), estimated at about 70Z of the urban labor
force, will make monthly payments through a salary deduction system a com on



ANNEX 1
Page 5
practice in Tanzania. Employers of plot-occupants with construction or im-
provement loans will make loan repayments to the TEB and ground rent payments
to the Treasury. Plot-occupants without a salary deduction option will make
ground rent payments to the region (or its site offices). For those with
loans, loan repayments will be made directly to the THB or to the cooperatives.
Thf Site Officers, cooperatives, regions, Ardhi (Accounts Section) and the
THB will all mDnitor the payment system and assist in the collection process.
In the event of default, Ardhi and the THB will decide upon the appropriate
measures to be taken, the last resort being the withdrawal and re-issue of the
Rights-of-Occupancy and the take-over of any plot improvements.
D. Financial Position
14.       Table 1 shows the assets and liabilities of the PHFCT taken over by
the THB in January 1973. The Table also shows that the PHFCT was entirely
dependent for 'ts funds upon public deposits and loans from the Government and
external financing agencies. The THB, on the other hand, is owned by the
Government which is obligated by the THB Act to provide share capital.
According to Sectiln 5 of the Act, the authorized capital stock of the THB is
TSh1OO.O iillion, divided into 100 shares each with a par value of TSh1.O
million. The Board may increase the limit, subject to the approval of the
Minister of Finance. The shares are issued by the Bank's Board, also subject
to the Minister's approval. Only the Government can subscribe for and be
allotted the shares. The Government pays for the shares at par value in cash
or other valuable consideration as soon as they have been allotted. The
shares cannot be pledged or encumbered in any way, and cannot be transferred
or assigned. During FY1973/74, the Government is expected to pay in about
TSh22.5 million, i.e. about TSh14.5 million in cash and TSh8.O million from
the Government's loan portfolio consisting mainly of housing loans to high-
ranking civil servants. As of the first half of 1973, the Government had
paid in TSh17.5 million.
15.       Subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, the THB is
authorized to borrow funds to support its operations, provided that the total
amount outstanding on such loans does not at any time exceed three times the
aggregate of the issued share capital and the General Reserve Fund. 1/ This
provision in the Act allows the Bank to borrow from external financing agencies,
such as the Bank/IDA, and from bilateral-aid sources. The THB is also autho-
rized, subject to the Minister's approval, to administer Special Funds from
the Government or other sources, provided that such funds are intended to
promote the objectives of the Bank.
1/   The THB maintains a General Reserve Fund to cover any losses or deficiencies
which may arise out of ordinary operations. Each year, the Board allocates
a part of the Bank's net income to the Fund so as to keep it at an amouiit
equal to fifty percent of the authorized capital stock.






ANNX 1I
Page 6
Table I
TA*WANIA
NATICNAL AIS AND SN =  PEWJl
Assets and Liabilities of the
Permanent Housing Finance Compa:y of Tanzania
Jamnary 1, 1973
(TSh million)
A. Assets
1. lortgages and iLoans                       63.0
2. Diverse Short-Term Credits                   5.0
3. Real Properties                              3.0
Total                                      71.0
YB. Liabdli5ties
1. Public Deposits                             63.0
2. Loans f-rom:
(a) Tanzanian Goverrnent                    3.0
(b) Commonwealth Development Corporation    5.0
Total                                      71.0
Sourcle T*z2ani3 Housing Bank.
1/ Includes TSb25.0 vdllion to the-Natial Housing Corporation (NHC).



Table 2
TANZAN:A
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICZS PROJECT
Staffing Plan for the
Tansania Housing Bank
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
1. Executive Heads
General Manager                     1       1        1        1        1
Advisor to the Bank                 1       1        -        -        -
2.  Adninstraticnc Deartment
Administration Officers             1       1        1        2        2
Supporting Staff                   18      20       22       2Li
3.  RinanceDepartment
Chief Accountant                    1       1        1        1
Accountants                        2        3            -4            o
Supporting Staff                    9      11       13       15
2i. q erations Department
Manager                             1       1        1        1        1
Operations Officers                 2       3        4        5        3
Operations Experts                  2       2        1        i        -
Supporting Staff                    5       7       10       13       15
5. Promotion Department
Promotion Officers                  1        1       2        3
Promoticn Experts                   1       1        1        -        -
Supporting Staff                    3       5
6. Branch Offices
Moshi Manager                       1        1       1        1        1
Other Managers                      -       1        2        3
Supporting Staff                    4       8       12       26       20
Total Senior Staff                        14       17       19       23      2f
Total SlIpporting Staff                   39       51       63       76       8,?
Total Stafr'                              53       68       82       99     113



ANNEX I
Attachment 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Objects and Functions of the
Tanzania Housing Bank
The Tanzania Housing Bank Act of 1972, Section 4
(t)       The objects of the Bank shall be:
(a)  to mobilize local savings and external resources for housing
development;
(b) to operate savings, time and term deposit accounts and to
pay interest thereon;
(c)  to proote housing development by -
(i) making available loan or equity finance for housing
development to any person;
(ii) -king avallable technical and financial assistance for
site and services facilities;
(iii) rendering technical, financial and other assistance for
promotion and implementation of oaner-occupied housing
scheme;
(iv) rendering technical, financial and other assistance to
uj amaa villages in the preparation and implementation
of building programmes;
(v) rendering technical, financial and other assistance for
the establishment and administration of institutions,
cooperatives and other organizations engaged primarily
in housing development for the benefit of the people of
the United Republic;
(vi) making loans, or guaranteeing loans made by others and
to any person or body of persons, corporate or unin-
corporate, for the purpose of enabling such person or
body to carry out housing development;



Attachmnt 1
Page 2
(d)  to meke loam, guarantee loans made by othes and to provide
techrical and other assistance, to persons or body of peros
corporate or mincorporate, for the comstructio  and d- _IInnt
of carcial aud industrial promss;
(e)  so far as it falls within its cWetence, to  sure the in-
plemtation of Governmet policy on housing and building, and,
without prejilice to the generality of the foreging, to prowte
the use of local materials, to encourage the constraction of
typ  of houma  best suited to local condidtl, to foster the
wdnisizing of building costs, prices at which bouses uay be sold
and rets at which th.y may be let;
(f)  subject to the provisios of this Act, to adminlster such special
funds as my from tim  to tim  be placed at the disosal of the
Bank;
(g) to perform any sliilar or other related function conferred upon
it by the Minister after consultation with the President;
(h) to do all subh acts and thingp as my be necessary, expedient or
advantageous for the performance of the foreoging functions.
(2)      The Bank shall utilsa all its ordinary and special resources for
the purpose only of furtheranc of the objects for which It Is established.



.NNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Decenrralization and the Reorganization
of the
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Develonment
1.        Based upon consultants' recommendations, 1/ the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Urban Development (Ardhi) was reorganized in June 1973 to reflect
the need to improve performance and its changed role under the Government's
decentralization policy.  Prior to decentralization, Ardni was responsible
for the overall development of the physical environment and the provision
of professional/technical services to enable land to be 4eveloped within the
best interests of the nation.
2.        The functional inputs required to carrv out its responsibilities
were spread among several divisions, the coordination of which depended
solely upon the Principal Secretary (Chart 8185). The Ministry consisted
mainly of specialist professional/technical units including the Divisions
for Town Planning and Valuation, three legal units (Land Division, Land
Registry, and the Rent Tribunal), and the Surveying and Mapping Division.
Ardhi Institute, and the Finance and Establishment Division. The Housing
Division was the only unit organized around a specific program.
3.        Decentralization changed Ardhi's role, making the regions re-
sponsible for certain land development tasks 2/. With staff trained by the
Ministry, the regions now have major responsibility for planning and control-
ling land development in urban and rural areas, including the installation of
infrastructure. With technical assistance and advice from the Ministry, the
regions also provide surveying services, allocate land, and perform the legal
work for Issuing Righ.e-of-Occupancy.
4.        The Ministry retainei responsibility for proposing and coordinating
land planning policies and strategies for the development of urban areas,
including the development and implementation of housing policies and programs.
Ardhi also assists the Prime Minister's Office in coordinating land development
in the rural areas. Moreover, it provides certain support tasks which can be
more efficiently carried out on a national basis, such as mapping, adjudicating
disputes involving customary land laws, registering and protecting Rights-of-
Occupancy, and compulsorily acquiring land and buildings. Due primarily to a
shortage of staff chroughout the regions, Ardhi performs valuation work.
1/  The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, "Concentrating Ardhi's
Efforts on Development-The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment," A report by McKinsey and Company, Inc. (U.S. Consultants), June 1973.
2/   Attachment 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Furthermore, it is responsible for the implementation of the National Sites
and Services Progran.  Thus, althoutih responsibilitv for many tasks has been
lecentralized, Ardhi's new role still covers the entire spectrum of land
d!velopment activities. Accordingly, major organization changes were instituted
to bet-er enable Ardhi to perform its executive, advisory and support functions
(Chart 8186):
(a)  executive responsibilities in urban development and manpower
development were brought together into two units (Urban
Development Department and Manpower Development Division);
(b)  advisory and support responsibilities in land development
were grouped into one division (Land Development Services
Division): and
(c)  internal support services were strengthened through the
creation of an Investigation and Planning Division, Finance
and Office Services Unit and an Internal Auditor.
Urban D)evelopment Department
Formerly, responsibilities for urban development were split among
several divisions and parastatals. The Town Planning Division produced
physical plans for urban areas and regions, and planned and coordinated the
installati,on of infrastructure in certain areas. The Housing Division pre-
pared housing proprams and constructed and managed housing projects (through
Ardhi's narastatals, the N1ational Housing Corporation and the Registrar of
Dui ldinp's). It also planned and implemented sites and services,projects,
and carrie.l out re3earch in housing and building.
6.        A new Urban Develonment Dep.lrtment, headed by a Commissioner, was
created to coordinate and control all of the Ministry's urban planning andt
lIousing functions. The Department consists of: the Urban Planning Division,
the Housing Development Division, and the National Hiousing and Building
Rvesearch llnit (NHBRU). While performing moet of the tasks of the old Town
Planninp Division, the Urban Planning Division also assista the regions upon
requtest with the physical planning of districts, small towns, and ujamaa
villages.
7.        The Ilouising Development Division is now responsible for overseeing
the operations of the National Housing Corporation (NHC) and the Registrar
of Buildings, since their operations are an integral part of the national
;ioaising prograrm.  The General tfanaper of the NIC and the Registrar of Buildings
lhowever, continue to he statutorily responsihle to their Boards whose Chairmen
are Ardhi's Minister and the Principal Secretary, respectively.  Headed by a
Ii roctor, the- Divisi on has two Enpineers, one in charge of technical matters
in Lhlt' housing program, and the other responsible for maintaining liaison on
rechnical. matter, wit'} related ministries, parastatals, and regional officials.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Two Technical Assistants monitor field work and provide advice on self-help
construction and building techniques. Two Cooperative Housing Officers are
responsible for organizing and administering housing cooperatives. Technical
assistance is provided by a Housing Cooperative Expert financed by the
Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD), and by an Associate Housing Co-
operative Expert financed by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
8.        The Director of Housing Development is supported by two sections:
(a) the Sites and Services Section, with the primary task of
planning and implementing national sites and services projects;
and
(b) the Housing Finance Services Section, which plans and
controls the financial resources required to implement Ardhi's
housing program.
9.        At present, due to the recent reorganization, the Sites and Services
Section relies heavily upon technical assistance provided by the UNDP and
other external financing and bilateral-aid agencies. This reliance is
expect:ed to be reduced as additional staff are trained under the proposed
expansion of the Ardhi Institute's Training Program (ANNEX 3). The Section
uses consultants extensively, and often seconds staff or secures services
from units within Ardhi and other ministries and parastatals.
10.       Working with the regions, the Section identifies sites, prepares
detailed layouts, and designs urban infrastructure and community facilities.
The Section also prepares implementation programs shoving a timetable for
implementation and the agencies which are responsible for carrying out de-
tailed tasks. The project plans are then presented to the Director of
Housing Development, who is responsible for obtaining approval within the
Ministry and the region. The Section assists the regional administrations
in processing applications and allocating plots. For project implementa-
tion, a Site Officer, who runs the Site Office, provides daily assistance
to the plot-occupant. In conjunction with the NHBRU, the Site Office also
provides the plot-occupar.ts with technical assistance in self-help construc-
tion and building technique3.
11.       The Sites and Services Section is headed by an Administrator.
8is staff includes four architect/planners and two draftsmen and a civil/
sanitarv engineer. The Section'- Land Officer, assisted by two operations
officers, works w4.th staff in the Land Development Services Division and
the regions in processing applications for Rights-of-Occupancy and allocating
plots. Two statisticians gather, process and analyze socio-economic data for
the designing of sites and services projects. The Section also has four Site
Officers, four Assistant Inspectors, and eight artisans (fundis) who staff
the Site Offices.



ANE X 2
Page 4
12.       The Houising Finance Services Section is responsible for ensuring
that funds are available to finance sites and services and other housing
projects. It prepares forecasts of funds required and secures commitments
from funding sources such as the Tanzanian Housing Bank (ANNEX 1), external
sources, and the Treasury. Working with the Site Office, the Section helps
organize and monitor the flow of funds through housing cooperatives, which
provide the link between the Tanzanian Housing Bank (THB) and Ardhi's Housing
Development Division. Its staff consists of Economist/Financial Analysts,
an Accounts Assistant and a Legal Advisor. Tecinical assistance is provided
by n Housing Financial Advisor financed by the UNDP.
13.       The third unit in the Urban Development Department is the NiEBRU,
resnonsible for carrying out research in housing and building construction.
AlthouRh the NH3B'U is located in Ardhi, the National Scientific Research Council
has considerable authority in determining research priorities and programs.
nnce the initial objectives of developing improved methods in self-help and
rural housing have been achieved, it will expand its activities to cover wider
aspects of construction research.
14.       'hereas responsibility for manpower development was formerlv
Fragm,intcd, these functions are noii grouped within the Manpower Development
Division, headed by a Director.  The Division has three Sections:  (i) Man-
pe"er Planning and Recruitment Section; (ii) Ardhi Institute; and (iii) the
Personnel. Administration Section.
15.       "1anpower Development is one of the most critical tasks facing, the
tMinistry. Ardhi has a national responsibility for ensuring an adequate
supply of skilled manpower at all grades in certain specialist cadres, i.e.
Lands, Surveying, Valuations, Town PlanninR and Cartography. Staff for these
cadrps are provided for the M4inistry itself, the regions and districts, the
NHC and Registrar of Buildings, and other Covernment bodies requiring these
skills. The Ministry works with the Central Establishments Division in the
Prime sinister's Office and other ministries responsible for providing
common and snecialist cadres to arrange for their supnly.
1if.      At present, there i.s a serious shortage of staff in all specialist
cadres ex:cont Cartography (Table 1), and the shortage is particularly severe
at the senior levels (Table 2). Table 1 shows that ir. April 1973, the Ministry
Sasn 30 below its total establishment of professional staff for Lands, Survey-
ing, rown Plannln-' and Valutation. At the regional and district levels, Lands
are understaffed by 25Z, and Surve-ving by 50s. Many senior positions are
filled hv tindertiialifiedi officers:  e.g. in 50 of the 68 districts, the post
of i)istrict Land 1)evelopmcnt Officer (ULDO) is held by a Land Assistant rather
than a Land Officer. The shortage of staff has prevented the appointment of
Town Planning and Valuation Officers in many regions.  Consequently, "zonal"
Town Planning Officers (reportine to the Regional Land Development Officer in
the region which they are located) and "zonal" Valuers (reporting directly to
Ardhi) provide services to a number of regions.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Land Development Services Section
17.       Formerly, responsibility for providing land development services
was dispersed among the Valuation, Lands, Land Registry, Surveys and Mapping,
and Town Planning Divisions. The creation of the Land Development Services
Division was in recognition of the need for Ardhi's legal and economic services
in land development to work more closely together. The legal services formerly
provided by the Lands and Land Registry Divisions and the Rent Tribunal are now
grouped to improve coordination in developing and maintaining procedures to
support the land tenure system (ANNEX 6). The grouping also places respon-
sibility for developing land laws along side the units within Ardhi which
implement these laws. The economic services, formerly provided by the Lands
and Valuation Divisions, are also grouped to improve coordination of the
legal and economic aspects of land allocation. The Land Economics Section
assists the regions in evaluating the economic aspects of land use, and the
Legal Section provides advice and assistance to the regions in dealing with
Rights-of-Occupancy. The Legal Section also reviews and proposes changes in
land laws. The regions are now directly responsible for providing services
for building and controlling land development including: (i) land use planning
and coordination: (ii) allocating plots and ensuring that development conditions
are met; and (iii) collecting ground rent. Ardhi provides technical advice and
assistance in these areas to professional staff in the Regional Land Develipment
Offices (RLDO), (Attachment 1).
18.       The Ministry's Development Budget includes expenditures for urban
planning, surveys and mapping, site clearance and servicing, town planning,
and housing and building research. The major development expenditures, how-
ever, are for urban infrastructure and compensation to individuals for the
loss of crops, buildings etc., when the Ministry takes over the right to
develop land for public purposes.
19.       In recent years, the Ministry's Development Budget has been used
primarily to implement the Dar es Salaam and Arusha Master Plans. Table 3
shows the Ministry's expenditures for infrastructure (i.e. primarily roads
and storm drainage) in these urban areas since FY1970. During 7Y1970-
FY1973, Dar es Salaam received over 90% of the total expenditures for infra-
structure. Table 4 shows the Ministry's expenditures for compensation during
FY1970-FY1973. Although the amounts steadily decreased during the period,
the expenditures were sizeable relative to Ardhi's expenditures for infra-
structure. In FY1971 and FY1972, for example, expenditures for compensation
in Dar es Salaam amounted to about 25% of the expenditures for infrasturct-ure.
20.       With the reorganization of Ardhi, a new budget item was i.-troducea
for the National Sites and Services Program. The Ministry requested a devel-
opment budget of TSh2.O million for the Sites and Services Section during
FY1974, but this was reduced to TShl.5 million by the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Development Planning (Devplan) due to the shortage of funds on
a nation-wide basis.  These funds were used entirely for compensatioil an.-
consultants' services for the proposed IDA-financed project. Five separate



ANNE= 2
Page 6
contracts totaling about TSh650,000 were awarded to COWIconsult (Danish
consultants) for site surveys and Investigations, planning and economic
studies, and preliminary and detailed engineering.
21.       During September/October, the Ministry submitted a supplementary
budget request in the amount of about TSh3.5 million for additional compensation
and consultants' services for the proposed project. Included in this amunt
was a request for TSh1.5 million for detailed engineering which the Govermnent
has requested IDA to finance retroactively. Although the total budget request
from all of the ministries exceeded the available re8ources by about four
times, Devplan and the Treasury approved this supplementary request for the
sites and services program.
-- 22-     In accordance with the construction schedule for the proposed
project, the Ministry has requested about TSh4.0 million for FY1975. This
request is ,for counterpart funds for construction and additional consultants'
services. The National Assembly will vote on the Budget in April/May 1974.



ANNEX 2
Pag 7
Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SRVICES PROJECT
Vacancies of Professional Staff
in tki Cadres of the
Ministry of Lads, _Rouing and Urban Developnent
All Profesaional  Total Approved      Vacancies as of         Percent
Staff         Establiahment         April 1973          Vacancies
Lands                   328                 72                   22
Surveying               196                 86                   46
Town Planning            4 46               11                   24
Valuation                89                 31                   35
Cartograpby              10                 _
29M       669                200                   30
I/ Figure include "zonal" officers, but exclude establishments
for regions where no offices have been opened as yet.
Sources Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development



ANNEIX 2
NAT1U$5t       S AND MLVICS PMJWT
Vaoan&eq of Swdor Staff
in the Cadres of th.
?~4ataTof  Ha!jouzLngand Urban   "In
s.-1r Stff         Total-Approved    Vacancise as of         Percent
ERablinut             April 1973        'Jacancies
Land Offcers               111                  66                 59
-9rveora                    29                   9                 31
Town    vm
Officers  V                22                   5                  23
?alurs                      1 &.               13                  72
Cartograpow.                 6                   -                   _
tiL         186                 93                  50
V/  Ffigures .inclw  "zoral" offcers, but excluds establishnts
for regiona where no offices have been opend as yet.
Source: Ministry of lands, Housing and Urban Developent



Page 9
Table 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJEXT
EmndAitures on Infrastructure
by the
Ministry of Lands, HousLin and Urban Development
Expen!at4z on Infrastructure
(TSh Thousands)
FYl970      ?i1971      Ff1972      Ffl973       FY19 7L4
Dar es Salaam             3.5        4,499.3    1,684.9       1,200.0    None
Arusha                   33.7          436.2        107.5    None         966.,
TOTAL     37.2        4,935.5     1,792.4    1,200.0       966.03
Souro* e Ministry of lands, Housing and Urban Development



A~2
TANZ&NIA
1AT10L SITES AID SERVIC=  PR1E3T
E~w1itz!e -for 2genaation
MU         I ayof     KMo and arban Development
Expemtitues for CoMe0natlon
(T&i Thousands)
F11970     Ff1971       M972       F973       FMl974
Dar es Salaa            1,571.6    1,096.6        46h..4    None _
Ar.hba                  is*,6b6    1,96Iz.8       450.1    None 
All Regime              6,328.2     4,424.6    1,293.1    None             -
1/ Polloing the riorganisation of Ardhi, expaditures for coWenation are
-   m inclded in the ne  budget iteu for the National Sites and Services
Progra. A reliabl  estiate of the anomt exPended for cqensation is
not yet awaLjab3A.
Source: Ninistfl     of uIxis, Housing and Urban Developent



Attachment 1
TANZ&NIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
The Support Role in Land nevelopment Services
By The
'-inistry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
Land ITse Planning
The Yinistry ensures that regional lanid use planning is consistent
witlh national development policy and is of a high professional qualitv.
Specifically, the 'tnistry
develops national land use plans to provide guidelines
for the regions, including, for example:
(a)  development plans for the national capital;
(b) national communications networks and facilities
(roads, ports, airports, pipelines, etc.):
(c) areas demarcated for the development of scarce
national resources (national parks, mines, etc.).
provides assistance in producing regional and district
land use plans on reqluest: and
reviews land use plans produced bv the regions, proposing
amendments as necessary.
Surveyinc'
In addition to approving and signing all surveys, the Ministry
provides professional stipport to surveyors in the regions and ensures that
accentabln standards are maintained by:
-    setting national survey standards and methods;
-    establishin! a national control system as a basis for
defining the location of surveys performed by regional
staff:
-    checkinp work of decentralized surveY staff;
-    provitling on reqluest technical advice and assistance
to the reg.ions: and
-    supplying specialist survey equipment to the regions.



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 2
Allocating and Controlling the Use of Land
The Ministry provides support to the regions in the allocation and
control of the use of land. This support requires two types of skill--an
economic analysis and lAgal.
(a) Economic analvsis. Valuers employ the skills to help the
regions decide for what purnoses land should be developed and
used.  To date, due to staff shortages, the valuation staff
has not been decentralized.
Three zonal offices have been set up but th ir staff still report to the
r1inisRtrv.  The statutory responsibility of che Chief Valuer to approve and
sign all valuatioa will be decentralized to qualified regional valuers once
they are asvaiable. The Ministry retains responsibility for:
-    developing national standards and methods for valuing
developed and undeveloped land for alternative uses
-    monitoring the performance of regional land staff in
(i) allocating land according to economic criteria
(ii)  performing valuations as a basis for land rents,
rates, acquisition and disposal
(iii) collecting land rent
-    providing to all government bodies technical advice and
assistance in economic appraisals and valuations
-    reviewing applications for Rights-of-Occupancv for large
or valuable plots of land
(i) over 500 acres, other than applications by ujamaa
villages, cooperatives and other public institutions
(ii) nther particularly valuable land--e.g. in the
center of major towns
(b) Legal skills. Such skills are required to assist in:
-    proposing and updating land laws and legal procedures
which enable land to be allocated in line with national
land use policy--e.g.,
(i) assigning responsibility for issuing Rights-of-
Occupancy



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 3
(ii) simplifying procedures for issuing Rights-of-
Occupancy and for any subsequent dispositions
(iii) codifying customarv land laws
-    monitoring the performance of regional land staff in
carrying out their legal work
-    giving advice and assistance on legal aspects of land use
-    retaining responsibility for actually issuing Rights-of-
Occupancy for the large or valuable plots of land mentioned
above
Reaistering Titles and Documents Related to Land
While the process of allocating Rights-of-Occupancy has been
decentralized, the "tinistry formally protects the interesis of the Nation
(which owns all land) and of holders of long-term Rights-of-Occupancy
through:
-    nlannine and carrying out a "first registration"' program
which ensures that existing occupiers of land  hiose
titles have never been registered are issued with long-
term Rights-of-Occupancy at economic rents
-    checking and registering the titles of land after the
issue of lonp-term Pights-of-Occupancy
-    registering all other documents and dispositions to land
(mortgages, revocations, etc.)
-    providing a search service to the public to enable all
titles and other documents relating to land to be
scrutinized
In addition to providinz these services, the Land Registrv Division
prrvides a Reneral registration service for other documents which have rno
connection with landl use--e.g. partnership agreements, wills, hire-p'ircliase
aereements, deed polls.
Arijtidicating Disputes Involving Customary Land LTaws
The Custoi'tary Land Tribunal, within the Ttinistrv, adjudicates
.iisprutes over land hield under customary law in certain areas.  Thle Tr-.bunai
is 'neciFically concerned with complaints by users of land about attemnCs
hv thnse w:ho claim to "own" land (according to trlhal custom) to extract
rent from them. The '"inistry provides this service as required by the regions,
ensurin't that complaints to the Tribunal and appeals against thle Tribumal's
ver(lit-ts (to the Minister) are dealt with speedilv.



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 4
Comnulsorily Acquiring Land and Buildings
Central and regional Government bodies identify land and buildings
requsired for Covernment purposes. After initial investigation and recoumenda-
tion by the Land Acquisition Committee in the regions, the Ministry is res-
ponsible for the following in processing applications for compulsory acquisition:
-    Investigating the application, confirming the acquisition
(recommendation where appropriate):
-    Evaluating cases for compensation; and
-    Issuing acquisition notices.
The Mtinistry remains responsible for all mapping work:
-    Planning a mapping program to support land development
(and also as a service for other users, e.g. education,
transport authorities):
(a) Setting map specifications;
(b) Proposing a timetable for completion and updating
of mapping work; and
(c) Identifying the financial and physical resources
required.
-    Implementing the mapping program, performing:
(a) Aerial photogranhy and ground control work;
(b)  Photogrammetic plotting;
(c) Cartographic draughting; and
.47  Photolithographic printing.
-    Operating a map sales service to stupply maps to users



A -NU  3
Page.
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
The Ardhi Institute
1.        Manpower development is one of the most critical tasks facing the
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development (Ardhi). One important source
of skilled manpower is its own Ardhi Institute, which provides 3ub-professional
training in surveying, land management and valuation and town planning for
positions within the Ministry, regions, National Housiug Corporation (NHC),
Registrar of Buildings, and other Government agencies requiring such skills.
The Institute's current enrollment is approximately 100 students, and the
faculty consists of a Dean, two surveyors, two tNDP advisors (town planning
instructors) and two Tanzanian counterparts (presently on leave outside the
country for academic study), one valuer, and several occasional part-time
lecturers in soecialized fields. Although housed in quartars at the
University of Dar es Salaam, it functions independently. The lnstitute
is allotted four classrooms and lodging for about 50 boarders. It also has
one vehicle for student field work.
2.        About 60 students currently receive training in surveying under a
two-year program at the Institute. These students are selected from iecondary
school graduates unable to meet university entrance requirements. The course
emphasizes a practical approach and is designed to produce a staff of working
surveyors (Assistant Surveyors) for the extensive surveying nsw being carried
out in conjunction with the development of urban centers and u-j r=aa vil-
lages throughout the country. Upon completion of the protr=l, tLese Assista=-
Surveyors are periodically evaluated in the field, permitt"n'. the Xinistry to
measure their progress as well as the practical applicabilZty of the curri-
culum in line with the country'a current requireents.
3.        Academic training of Professional Surveyors is provided by the
Government under an agreement with the East African Commuinty (EAC), permit-
ting up to 10 qualified Tanzanians to enroll each year in a three-year pro-
gram at the University of Nairobi. Twelve additional studento receive pro-
fessional training outside the EAC. Following completion of these progrs,
all are required to serve five years in the Goverunment. Thsae professionals
usually serve in Government as managers and supervisor3, where ouch resources
remain in extremely short 3upply.
4.        As of mid-1973, only 20 orofessional Surveyors and 94 Assista-it
Surveyors were in government service. By 1978, it iS estimated that over 80
Professionals and 760 Assistants will be required. To begin to fill the
immediate need, the Government is now recruiting 23 expatriate zurveyors and
20 volunteers to assist in actual field work.  n- addI tion, .xdh prov7ob -8
to re-institute a training program for survey technicians, involving  .ess
sophisticated skills and directed at socondary school leavero.



ANNK-EX 3
Page 2
5.        The Institute's practical training of land managers and valuers
is also a two-year progrm designed to meet the needs in upcountry urban
centers and villages under the Goverment's decentralization policy.  The
shortage of Valuers is so acute at present that the Governmaet is not yet
able to decentralize this land development function.
6.        Under mounting pressure for skilled manpower, exacerbated by decen-
tralization, the Economic Committee of the Cabinet (ECC) approved the Insti-
tute's request for an increase in the FY 1974 recurrent budget from TSh 600,000
to TSh 1.5 nillion. This enables the Institute to increase its staff to mset
expected manpower needs for trained surveyors and valuers, add extra classrooms
for the surveying progrm, construct a new building with admiuistrative offices
and a library for all program, and a new hostel with living and dinimgfacil-
ities for 200 students. However, shortage of funds, staff, space and equipmet
for the town planning program are bottlenecks to its davelopat.
7.        At present, there are only nine Tanzanian professional Town Planning
Officers and Fifteen Town Planning Assistants in the country. Only one pro-
fessional is working upcountry, while the rest work in Dar es Salaam. Accel-
erated urban and rural development, as well as decentralization, have inten-
sified the need for town planners to prepare master plans and sites and serv-
ices projects in the upcountry towns and ujamaa villages.  Thus, Ardhi is seek-
ing to increae the Institute's staff, facilities, and equipment in order to
train more Town Planning Assistants.
8.        As in the surveying program, professionals receive fellowships for
acadeic training in universities outside Tanzania. About 26 secondary school
graduates are currently enrolled in the Institute's three-year program for
training Town Planning Assistants. The program vill ultimately have au enroll-
ment of 60 students. The Institute's curriculum, formerly based on tradi-
tional town planning programs in Western European universities, has recently
been revised to include practical training relevant to Tanzania's urban
needs.
9.        The Institute's program  is being partially financed over a three-
year period (1972/7l3-19?4/75) under a United Nations Developent Program (UNDP)
grant in the amount of bi?82,000.  These funds cover salaries for two expa-
triate advisors (instructors), two fellowships for training counterparts abroad,
and equipment. Due to the late start of the program, the grant was roduced
to US$160,000. Cormitted to provide counterpart funds amounting to,TSh 2.5
million (US$360,000), the Government had only been able to contribute about
TSh 300,000 (US$42,000) by August 1973, one-third through the grant period.
This delayed the Institute's construction program, causing serious space
constraints. Three studio/workshopa are included in this program, which
are urgently required if the lIstitute is to meet its manpower needs.
Recently, the UNDP re-evaluat.ed the Grant Program and decided to provide
additional financing through 1975 for five additional town planning advisors
(instructors). Also, the Government provided assurances that it would amat



A.TNE 3
Page 3
its co0tmsnt for counterpart funds. No funds, however, were securod for
meeting the spaec requirements for the twn planing program. Fun" provided
by the project will permit the Iatitute to expad Its pksical facilties,
providing 3 studlo/workbabop  foc about 60 town pdming students.






ANNEX 4
?age 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PRDJECT
Site Selection and Plans
A.   Site Selection
1.        A key element in the preparation of sites and services projects is
the selection of the site. In fact, the success of a particular project de-
pends more on site location than any other factor. The proposed sites (three
in Dar es Salaam and two in upcountry towns) were selected after a careful
evaluation of a number of possible sites. The following criteria were used:
(a) Availability of a reasonably large parcel of land which can
be developad into a low-cost housing area in accordance
with existing Master Plans. In Tanzania, given the need to
accommodate a pit latrine or aqua privy, a traditional
Swahili house and a shamba on each plot, a site larger than
50 ha is considered suitable for sites and services projects.
Further consideration is given to the present land use of
the site and the amount of compensation required for land
acquisition;
(b) A site location well suited in relation to job opportunities,
transportation facilities and off-site insfrastructure, i.e.
access roads, water, power and sewerage mains:
(c) The site characteristics should be appropriate for project
development. Topography and vegetation should be considered
for natural drainage of the area. Soil and ground water
conditions should be suitable for the proposed sewage dis-
posal mthod (pit latrines in most caus) as veil - for
buildizup ad roads foundations.  Both the devlopment
potential nd contraints thereto dould be evaliated.
In selecting an area for squatter upgrading, the following criteria were used:
(a) The squatter area was judged viable in that neighborhoods
appeared to be. well organized with a cohesive co_unity
spirit;
(b) The provlsion of required services was economically
feasible;



AIW= 4
Page 2
(c) The site was not located in such a manner as to pose
health or safety hazards to the occupants and the
gmeral public; and
(d)  In Dar ts Salam, the area was in accordance with the
Master Plan.
2.        Table 1 eumrizes the respective characteristics of all project
sites. All sites are vell located and adequately meet the above criteria.
The sites selected are:
Sinza:
The Sinza site consists of 234 ha to be developed for about
4,000 plots---lt i-sthe sost centrally located project site in Dar as Salaam,
bounded on the south by Marogoro road and the Ubungo industrial area, on the
West by the University, and an the east by Manzese. Due to its central
location, it is expected to be occupied at higher dewities thi  other project
areas.
Kijitonyma:
Bounded by the new Bagowyo road and the University Link road, the
Kijitonyama site consists of 160 ha to be developed for 1,850 plots. The
Government developed one quadrant (850 plots) in 1970 as a pilot sites and
services projeet. but due to very high design standards it was unsuccessful.
Although all plots have already been dmrcated and allocated, the remaiing
three quadrants have been redesigned at loUer standards and included in the
proposed project.
Mikocheni:
The Mikocheni site consists of 81 ha to be developed for about
1,600 plots. Adjacent to Msasani Bay, it is bounded by the old and now
Bagamaoyo roads leading to the city and the new link road. It in also rela-
tively close to the major employment areas. High ground water conditions
will require a cetral sewerage system and, therefore, higher infrastructure
standards.
Nyakato, Mwanza:
The ?Hanza site consists of 110 ha to be developed for 2,300
plots. The site is on the main road between !Mianza town and the industrial
suburb of Nyakato and is vell served by existing bus routes.  It is 5 km from
Mwanza. The land is generally unoccupied, although squatting is beginning to
take place.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Mvanjelva, Mbeya:
The 140 ha to be developed in Mbeya is a squatter improvement area,
about 2 km south of the city center and in close proximity to the TanZam
Highway and Railroad. The project will affect nearly 1,200 existing houses
and about 850 surveyed plots.
B.   Site Plans
3.        The criteria used in planning sites and services areas can be
broadly categorized into social and engineering criteria. The social cri-
teria include:
(a) adequate provision of community facilities, i.e. conm2nity
education centers, clinics, markets, police posts, etc.;
(b) location of community facilities so as to offer couvenient
and safe access to the entire comunity;
(c) grouping of these facilities in a way to form an active
and viable nucleus for camunity activities and to permit
multiple use of building and play areas;
5d). provision of a safe and convenient system of footpaths
linking plots to bus lines, play areas and community
facilities; and
(e) provision of vehicular circulation within the area, which
allows access to residential, couercial and public area
and provides easy flow of traffic while protecting the
neighborhoods from through traffic.
The engineering criteria include:
(a) adequate provision of basic services, i.e. roads, footpaths,
storm water drainage, water supply, fire hydrants, sawage
disposal, power supply and street lighting;
(b) the level of services provided should meet the aspirations
of the residents and, at the same time, be low enough to be
accessible to the target population;
(c) the design of services should permit and provide for future
extensions and improvements as household incomes permit.
4.        Layouts for Sinza and Manzese B (squatter settlement) have been
prvfl.7revd (iMaps 1071-10n7n3).  The layout for Sinza is simple and geometric fc.r
(erovieopii constructlion and servicing. Provision is made for vehicular circu-
lation throtighout the site, allowing easv access to the residential areas,
rormurntv farlities, and the main trink roads, while protecting the



A fNXX 4
Page 4
neighborhoods from excessive through-traffic. A safe and convenient network
of footpaths is also provided, linking the plots to co=mercial and public
areas and to the public transport system. The community facilities are
grouped to take advantage of their interrelationships and to permit multiple
use of the buildings and surrounding areas. Taking into account the location
of the existing houses, basic infrastructOire, community facilities, these
criteria were used in the site plans for Manzsse A and B. Site plans for
the other sites are currently being prepared, using similar concepts.
5.        The basic design unit is the 10-house cell for the new areas. 1/
In Sinza, the plots are arranged within the blocks to avoid uneconomic double
frontages, and to ae at least within 50 m of a small open space. The typical
plot size is 288 a (12 X x 24 m), which, although, large compared to previous
Bank/IDA financed projects, 2/ is appropriate in the Tanzanian context. Large
plots are necessary to accommodate pit latrines or aqua privies, shambas and
the traditional Swahili house, while allowing for the possibility of future
<u!tjiviorcw and the construction of sinp'e familv units.  In  ;ijitonyama,  2
'!h.ro the plotrs t-ere surveved and allocate(d in 1970, the plot size is 370 m.
Tn l1mn7oso A and B, where the plots are arranged hapha7ardly, block surveys
havx'e bvon completed, resulting in blorks of 20-3n houses which are somewhat
irreQltllr.
6.        The land use profile for Sinza is shown in Table 2.  About 50%
of the site area is devoted to plots, 16% to roads, 9% to residential open
spaces, and 25X to comuuity facilities including recreational open spaces.
The land use allocation to counit-y facilities, open spaces and markets,
etc., varies from site to site, depending on the availability of si.il*r
facilities in the surrounding neighborhoods. Although there are no universal-
ly applicable design standards for site development, particularly for low-
cost projects, generally acceptable design guidelines suggest that 50-60% of
site area should be allocated to residential plots. Since sewage disposal
will be by pit latrines on all sites except Mikocheni, the lower figure of
50% for the residential area is considered appropriate. Gross densities 3/
are around 19 plots/ha. Net densities (excluding land devoted for circula-
tion, commuity facilities and open spaces, etc.) are about 38.4 plots/ha.
Assuming ten persons per household, the gross population density is expected
to be 192 persons per bA.
1/ This design unit is in keeping with the traditional TANU (Tanganyika
African National Union) settlem_nt pattern.
2                  2                   2
2/   Senegal 150 a , Nicsragua 110 m , and Jamaica 94 m
3/ Deflned as: Number of Plots, e.g., in Sinza
Area of Site
4,000 - 17.1 plots/ha (Table 2).
234



AINEX 4
Page 5
7.        The type and number of community facilities to be provided by the
project are given in the following table. The number of facilities provided
are in accordance with existing Government standards. These buildings are
to be designed by consultants in consultation with respective ministries,
e.g. Ministry of Education for schools. The consultants will build upon
the concepts that Government is currently developing for the delivery of
education and health services in the rural areas, investigate the inter-
relationships among these services (including measures for dealing with the
malnutrition problem), and design facilities for multipurpose use.
Number of Communitv Facilities
Site
Type             Sinza  Kijitonyama  Hikocheni   Manzese  Nyakato   Mwanjelwa
A and B (Mwanza)      (Mbeya)
Community
Education
Centers            2         1            1         5          1           1
Urban
Health
Center             1                                -
Dispensary          1         1            1         2          1           1
Large
Market             1         -            -          1         1           1
Small
Market             1         1            1          3         1           t
The criteria for determining the number of community facilities are based on
prevailing standards in the respective Miinistries. The CECs currently under
design for the rural areas include equipped classrooms for oractical instruc-
tion (e.g. agricultural techniques, health care) and space for expanded
school activities such as adult education. A similar facility will be designed
for the project areas. One CEC will be provided for approximatelv 1,500
plots, meeting the needs of 50% of the eventual nrimary school age populat4ion.
One health center will be provided for every 50,000,people including an out-
patient clinic, maternity unit and maternal and child health clinic (MCH).
A dispensary will be provided for every 25,000 people and will consist of an
outpatient clinic and MCR.






TAAZA5(A
PATIWAL SITil AtN SUhlCIES RUiCT
Scat-f ritle _r               _                                               lr                        oar S       fire
1    Lrr n.e  La                            .elaaea-    s                f t I  i_   th  _t            r_oh_iS   r. * bn             .irttna , * -  a...           Oesr.ataeIO  '. a^ SI            Ae. =_.v  Z .
dt cirr t_e_ Tff               f rte  tS a_   . b.r   d _   _tbe Ct cit                 .1 te cit"  roster. II          of tr_ Ctrt, etF
I-_-r .    _             by        S    e  r_            rtnt.. rett_   se         arm  1. dtostde   5.  -_        ,1 I_r   r_e _i.  e              C.ot. tif tCf   -
h.  _       Sta   te           t. eth. Lien L  te lb.            .4   _     a y           ar _tt tt  1_ e A a    1      Tf _d  ie          t     the LT  5 e,
Tliat.       a.-OOe..oe        aaelP       Ua_               o    _  5th at             br The  roTne. ro.a O-d   _tOiat eb y                            'rr fa       *i wa.t -
aL, rt_e  to  he.               .. _t a- _    tIla   - c    t.e  a1 _            e. 1_o i_          flts S-_                                             o    . ts  a.ee
ihJtS il    ft                 d. itc  ti_  mat.            Tlb  rrtRb m      t         t. 1  ti _t  _  S_t.                                             hd  _e  o
th 04 Siag  alo                                          bti-v 1*            *       ait aloe.      I_    atb 0 -dtetidttat
thr   _                                                       _-      rr _e the         fact.        Ae ha                                                               _t
t. iit-A.                                                   ,.aihy                              Ictla.                                                    .  .aTAa 
i. r_                ft.  _  _C                 -               A-rI   Sod  r _
estate Ia thb   tth.
e e                                  50 he lo Sh .i ha tttr    A-.0  h.                                                                                      l10 Mt                          71   c asttt4
B_ese   1-20  It.                                               ste. til t
. Te- .                                   CT   ttiaty  fPlt         5    _  _     St.                  Caoa-1r Pi.ni.               'sIt. pt                        The -lec  ief a. a 3_           1.-tv         to.S'.ero
T-Jl. --t.a                                                  *ai _  n cetb               LtoM.  e.d. 8..ih               900 .i    ccltev stop           '40t10i.l    ar.
hetn  5S1                                    eacrr.~~~~~~i -h-l7 dirotta  tacit Ca S.  acterlty          lag 1a        terlw              rao.vs   5. 7
_teEr f.lif *                                                .--_raff  trdint           dt*irtrl _    1cts               direettan witrh rotik Icee      tee tCvt4   Are
04.5_.c  InS.                                              t1   Lr- l s ory            ccc  heve   10tl-lS  c.         art     -   idJe..l eretl       hityo  I  .tt,t-.enrly
.190190 tamvia                                             hone,.. 1.20..              The ae_c  fic al *rei_cd        t-. ir.. 1.590-i. ISo *    dstsri fat on          0 lood
the teat-Itac                                                itieo tree Sc ncsocd       b_ . ofhcr at cares.            a_... in  lesTI r lb. aI^rea    enb  ar.d is .aet 
C     _ aTcty                                               hr a   _fl at         L     te rSe abddtn         re        jo _1l drfCrd h. e               draloed.  Ara. s to-
i etL ea                                                          s      ar.t. ci     r .cterd oh      .         it-r II the tester                      alls  orcs. S.
tildis4 by                                                   ste cr. *         rly                                       dearco 1r    Ma  et               a t.f  cr
1 ad rIser.                                            d*rtaed dat to                                              _c er fcanwat.-c tt a.rF  t  Td    1 
_  -tri    . 0r                                               d.rec        sad c_t soc_.
heal I_e  ceo  tr                                            pocirs of tc1,
arc.tea.                                                     ashees 1
d _                                                                           .                                   - .   -                                                     _
*.   f l CCt1ma                            _Sibat-_fic  cc              Sa    S^as Ilcccl              actti  th e- at.            Sbit fact te _o_rd~.             _514. eoad ,cfc-ae  an          A. r  ...   tirs..'
04gm       {1 Fe laC                                               S_It 0-L   ca of         lately trar  see.            .ad    atr  .ersd or. rt .Fcais 'i/ .-
arce  td .1                                                 tot toaS  sir.dtd            -o c-ta.  1rct  sre             soc.  td  cocA  4t to-           ho4ics  c- .a.i  .ra&.at
rlots    _e                                                teAd. t_spt                 fcl svxed   o ct, Icicle   S     aoted  15 belaW W=    .-b  -          ot A
fhttlctea.  tar.                                            orertvtfl  e.dT             I - 2  . bhe1   -eas.             astd.  A fh 7 totd                        .,      t .
aIrzt rrote t0 a of                                         stay,  lT. tro.c.d          Coo. .ocl..f45 ..s.del-          layer atf'afct. CtlaaeD         roth asifsst.a.s-  -
cly     .   incar- 01                                                t-rr    51         10  *t                             I         rS 'a f F th  S   e  Wf c r   t '-
tl.   et oe.ae                          _er.teoS                                                                        to. .s.  2n_0-S       hi._  tete _itttttfz  - _iA
cllten-  e._teed                                             lersticos  *-1.2 e                                             r_.  eater toFl   a          'ca_r  tad   a! foe
Ce0 r_   ce _t r   Le_                                       bet.. _rafc                                                 daarer _l   7  .  Coed
1_ t.  _t   - ISoil  -d fL                                                     re -ase   ctie  rt
1Stel                                                       lefts .gc        ore
-Til"ili.  f__P.
s.     T'_e  Ul_| iSt     _            *v-      ebi oTee                          se                               t.         Sam     SI.-                    A b-      rat   -  tti  df s-arS  b.,
_ lre        r_                                               e _the f i "M  S   .  -i a                                          f. It   t               c-c.  r.' =AC!cP  -
City r*e -rfec  ta :r city                                                                                              ,.it  the tom  _d  Cyotett    tC.s.e.   a.- *..
t          . c ,tr                                           ri-attL.  are     X            t-   scr e    Pta.
a cit tt aethi.tp
*,   r        t  Ilbe                     S.  _er *f *    *crt_a         City _la      f ra'           Cif t.rta .t  5L                      SinreS                          P - ouie 'tott          Sev io rte  sts
.0-   "P~.  read           00-W  tadtract                L.rth goad                                                    allitosroor.                     welI h.he  Axtt-.
et-isdtag  _ttsadS           ab_ -          ae                          thi                                                                                      a     ar
Tetit.. cwcf  the            ca.                                                                                                                           AeIeT.ttM.2
.C.  Ci ty _ tcm                                                                                                                                          to *-- t  r 2  itt
A-eh   ac                    Kitt t-_ t-                                                                                                                  tn m
alt..W11.4.
I    Off-al.tc fro-..retetA
tap   ase.o Oced                     acts  rctto  I t.             oat cetes Ira.                 titaetrec- tImo             Oetcn oAtes. trs.                iciB etca    t..e               5it*- actc   no
MI _ .t-  r  vedA."a                    e  rood.             .1A-toai.ltltbtad w                                           ts6 Iotoed.                     AS_    - -i, _ '  o-
b. ~         ~      ~      ~                    bss  fi_-  bz_ nI'I4    <t$
PIT.TiWil Filad -d 27-                      lA 'ya.. ttod   sfo         -1                                                                 aa   .saictf10
rold a7 cl_ MId
tb t  raa  5.pet                     At.. rtat  he --re            AreS till ha ares.             Ealctitt C" _ein on  '1S- *ai  ssAtt                         Alt  at1 LIe atrood        _     Sa~f         c  at..t
It, ISO .01c atm             *? 270 aala slone               Yr_e totinf   ccd siltl  ttcrotocr tod                       by  70r cale ctst               v.0. r t flv! t ftOtatd
W.a5r_   r_e  _at 2T'        acew ..-agsy                    eet'a  ti o Iivtal loo    alurty tosre                       1be   rI.                       lty 170 tot natota
*e. cl_ng fSto.rsaP            Itab red 411 b.   1A h. SA-                               pert -r i Fi                               -                      t      efrvs  rt.
fUTie ItekhU  re.                                            caia aiiiihe  aididl  by
. d             1S-l silt thit,            .
st the ara  -t-
11iOnaeti.
IrS  Iteettt{Err ittyb                os4 Pacer s{ItS  Itt Esaatche P' sie slee                  icio,  'a ho  irtS.         acctaio  eet                     tA 1etftI   ii h  tas       r     -v_. at. Ia
fr_. Il be  Ul loer          IaIr _y  read.                  alcot old S.ye             ofirIort.taO ora rood             ala.   ose  clia sar l      1     'n;ta t-'
11 e_oe r_.                                                   rd tea foftlcet           st a1 rly th I.e .                st *pet  tF' adco                a..  c-ao
ITpetacs  I. np{                                                   t
tO    l_raSowese. o ts.                                            Cratrc     ro_r                The d rediot ocad            a aseess. ant _-                 IeO  Drt  lat Ista              TX. t_e1Sty..
asIa   r .e  h  ledact.    ayeaelt Q        tat              Iotsscd  tsa  Kilt.     astat.  Arcs tIll                    thaeee_ raet b-.h..                         _
flAt ars  e  the et           te tlte  qaedcf                tons ri_ovr  .0.1           ht? e asre  hrv bc t             T.......... otoetefa   is tivaboo  srrsc-ttF by 5'vr a
_mioetlt     tIe _et.  71he _et1l4  ab                       baa aafrtt*lot coeg_........... aycl.  71t ' 'Iatl
tscte at a_totee_s         ;ta aba at Myt. _of               of sh  .rc..........                                         area.to  h
. _ _ _ _le  .Ie_.                             _ _ae  cla....._..._.._..



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Table 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Land Use Profile - Sinza Site
ha     __
1.  Area of Site                                       234    100.0
2.  Net Residential Area (plots only)                  117     50.0
3.  Community Facilities
a.  education                                      16      6.8
b. health                                           2      0.9
c.  markets                                         8      3.4
d. other institutions                               7      3.0
e.  recreational open spaces                       25     10.9
4.  Residential Open Spaces                             22      9.2
5.  Roads                                               37     15.8
,________________________
6.  Number of Plots                                      4,000
7.  Gross Density (no. of plots/total area)                  17.1 plots/ha
8.  Net Density (no. of plots/net res. area)                 34.2 plots/ha
9.  Site Population (@ 10 person/plot)                   40,000.
10.  Population Density                                    171 persons/ha



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES ANID SERVICES PROJECT
Design Standards and Cost Estimates
Infrastructure Standards
1.        In designing the infrastructure, the following standards were
adopted after considering the requirements of the sites and services project
as well as the prevailing standards in Tanzania. The standards are kept
low enough to bring per plot costs within reach of the lower end of the house-
hold income scale. However, provisions are made in the design for improve-
ments at later stages.  Infrastructure cost estimates for the various sites
are tabulated in Table 1. Breakdown of cost estimates for the Sinza site in
Dar es Salaam is given in Table 2.
A. Roads
2.        Each site will have a network of collector, primary, secondary,
and pedestrian roads as described below:
(a) A standard - collector roads are marked with red on the key plan
(Map 10701). The roads are planned to provide convenient access to the
major arterial roads around the area, while restricting through traffic to
a minimum. The A-roads are designed to accooodate the heavy bus traffic
which will be provided soon after the area is populated. For this purpose,
bus stops will be built near road junctions and along the road as required.
For safety reasons, access from collector roads is kept at a minimum and only
junctions are envisioned. Shops and other comercial activities will be
located off the collector roads. Class A roads will have a road reserve
of 33 meters with an initial carriageway width of 6 meters. The road will
have a treated dry macadam surfacing on mechanically stabilized gravel
base. The edges of the pavement will be strengthened with concrete border
curbs. Shoulders, 4.5 a wide, are provided to allow for future expansion
of the carriageway. The estimated unit cost for this road is TSh488/m;
(b) B standard - primary roads will serve as the main vehicular access
to the individual sub-units (neighborhood units). Initially vehicular traffic
will be limited primarily to comercial vehicles serving the sub-units.
Mini-taxis, garbage trucks, cesspit emptiers, fire-engines and a small number
of private cars will eventually use these roads. The B-roads will have a
20-rm road reserve and 4.5 m wide carriageway of rolled gravel. Shoulders
(3.25 m) are provided on each side of the carriageway for cyclists and
pedestrians. The estimated unit cost of this road is TSh117.6/u;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c)  C standard - secondary roads are dirt roads which will serve as
vehicular access to the 100 plot units. In the first decade,
traffic wlll be sporadic, limited to occasional garbage trucks,
emergency vehicles, etc. The road has a 10 a reserve width and
a 5 a wide roadway which can be surfaced in the future to form
a two-lans street. The estimated unit cost of a Class C road
is TSh27/u;
(d) D Standard - pedestrian roads will function as pedestrian and
cyclist accesses to individual plots. The D-road will have a
road reserve of 6 maters. Emergency vehicular traffic wll be
possible on this road. The estimated unit cost is TSh6.'/a.
B. Water Supply
3.        In designing the main distribution system for the project sites,
it is assumed that all plots will ultimately have private water connections.
Initially, however, the plot occupants will be served by water kiosks, one
for every 50 plots. At the Mikocheni site in Dar es Salas., a central
sewerage system is required and consequently individual water connections
will be provided. Over the 20-year design period, water consuDption is
assmed to increase to 100 liters per capita per day with individual water
co-nections.  The maximo  water consumption from kiosks is estimated at 40
liters/capita/day.
4.        The distribution system follows the road layout and is divided into
different supply areas controlled by valves. Thus, supply to one area can be
shut off without interfering with the other areas.  In addition, secondary
valves will be used at each branch line to simplify repairs and future
extensions. Fire hydrants (3") will be located at approximate intervals of
125 a along the main roads; wherever possible, hydrants will be placed at
junctions. Locally mnufactured P.V.C. (poly vinyl chloride) pipes will be
used for reasons of economy and ease of installation. Invidual connections
and connections to water kiosks will be carried out in galvanized iron pipes.
5.        The design ci the main distribution system allows for three levels
of service, each corresponding to a construction phase. The initial service
level consists of water supply to kiosks, each serving 50 plots. Each such
kiosk will have four taps and is partly prefabricated. The second service
level will be reached by increasing the number of kiosks to serve every 10
plots; each kiosk will have only two taps. The third and ultimate service
level will provide individual connections.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
C. Drainage
6.        The drainame system is designed to carry storm water and domestic
waste water exclusive of latrines. The proposed system consists of open
ditches with culverts at vehicular crossings. The ditches are unlined,
excent in steep areas where erosion could occur due to high velocities.
The ditches discharge into the streams by means of outfalls protected by
stone pitching. It is acknowledged that this system has apparent short-
comulngs: it requires continuous maintenance and mosquito breeding is possible.
Ho -'ever, this system is viewed as an economical first stage of development.
A second stage would be the lining of all ditches, and the final stage
'would involve a central sewerage system handling all domestic sewage.  The
necessary sewerage pipes can be conveniently located within the provided
reserve of 3 m.
D. Sanitary Sewerage
7.        The followine, low-cost sewerage svstems were considered:
(a) Dry closets emptied in special trucks;
(b) Dry closets emptied by cessoit emptier;
(c)  Traditional pit latrines;
(d) Aqua privies with soak-ways; and
(e)  Aqua privies connected to a central sewraae system and
oxidation ponds.
System (a)
This svstec conRists of a bucket which must be frequently removed
for emptvtniz and cleanine. Initial costs are low and no water is required.
The system, however, has obvious health hazards. It also requires an
extremelv efficient organization to ooerate a large fleet of special trucks
as weLl as a  eaens of disposing off the excreta.
Systetm (b)
This svstem is slightly vore reliable than system (a) since the
common tank- act as buffers. Thus a breakdown of the truck operations for
a short period would not be disastrous. However, a breakdown over a longer
period would be as serious as for system (a).



ANIM 5
Page 4
system (c)
The traditional pit latrlne, consisting of a hole in the ground
covered wlth a squatting plate, is widely used In Tanzania. Liquid wastes
seep off into the ground and the solid wastes accumulate in the pit where
they gruadually decomose. When the pit is full, a new latrine is built.  The
life of a pit latrine is normally 2-10 years. The pit is often 1.20 x 1.00 a
and as deep as possible; ranging between 2-6 a depending on the soil conditions.
Pit latrines rely on porous ground and a low ground water table. They are,
however, subject to continuous clogging since finely suspended solids can
close the voids in the soil. Another disadvantage is the health hazard posed
by insects. This problem can be reduced, however, by sealing the inlets
with a hinged cover.
System (d)
An aqua privv consists of a water-tight plt with a constant water
level. The pit acts as a septic tank, i.e., suspended solids settle and
aerobic decomposition takes place in the bottom sludge layer. After settling,
the water runs into a soak-away. The major hygienic advantage of the aqua
privy is the water-seal, which can only be maintained if leakage is prevented.
For economic reasons, cement blocks manufactured from the excavated soil
will be used for the walls. It is estimated that the aqua privy tank will
require emptying by a cesspit emptier every three years. The emptier hose
may be inserted through the inlet pipe. One cesapit emptier will be adequate
to serve an area the size of Sinza.
System (e)
This system consists of aqua privies connected to a central
sewerage system and oxidation ponds. This may be considered as a final
phase of a staged development, where system (d) would be the first phase.
The aqua privy is the same as described under system (d) except that a
central sewerage system replaces the soak-away. A series of oxidation ponds
is utilized for the final treatment of the effluent, before discharging into
a stream or a river.
8.        Two important advantages to the central system would be gained with
the anua privy as first link:
(a)  Because fewer suspended solids enter the pipe system, low
gradients can be used, while self cleaning of the pipes is
still maintained; and
(b)  When designing the oxidation ponds, the treatment effect
of the pits can be taken into account resulting in a possible
reduction of approximately 30% in the required area.



AhIgX 5
Page 5
It is envisaged that kitchen and bathvater could also be comected to the
central sewerage system after passing a silt trap, thereby disposlig of all
dometic sage.  The oxidation ponds required for treatent of the waste
water coul  conveniently be located in the low lying areas  ear the rivers.
CMararison Between System  and Recomendations
9.        Systems (a) and (b), being totally dependent on a collector system,
are not recommended. Thus, the choice is between system (c), (d) and (e).
The cost of a traditional pit latrine built by a local contractor is
a.pproximately TSh150, depending on the quality of the cover slab. The cost
of an aqua privy with soak-away is approximately TSh850 whereas the cost of
the central sewage system would be TSh600 to TShl,000 over the cost of
system (d). The per plot connection cost of a conventional waterborne
sewerage system serving a flush toilet, bath and kitchen is estimated at
TSh2,530. Due to its high cost, the latter system is not feasible. rrom
a techuical point of view, system (e) is recommended but is not economical
in the initial phase.  However, this system is recomwended for the Mikocheani
site in Dar es Salasm because of a high ground water table.
10.       The aqua privy is an improvement over the traditional pit latrine
and would function well, given favorable soil and ground water conditions.
In view of the comparatively high cost of an aqua privy (the largest single
infrastructure item), pit latrines will be used on the remaining sites where
soil and ground water conditions have been found suitable, and on the remain-
ing 50Z of plots in Sinza and Kijitonyasma. Prefabricated cover slabs with
P.V.C. hinged covers are proposed for pit .atrines, which could later be
incorporated in an aqua prlvy. Plot-owners, who can afford, will be encour-
aged to construct aqua privies. The THEB construction loan will include
financing for such aqua privies.
E. Power Supply
11.       The design of the power supply system assumes that power will be
required mainly for lighting purposes. The size and distribution of trans-
formers, agreed upon with TANESCO, correspond to a peak load of 200 w per
plot. As in the case of water supply, the power supply system will be
phased. Only street lights along main roads and power to community facilities
will be provided in the initial phase. The proposed phases of development
are:
Phase I
This would involve construction of off-site high voltage supply
line- llkv branch from the nearest 33kv main to the site and the high voltage
distribution system in the area. The high voltage system and transformers



ANNEX 5
Page 6
will meet the estimated consumption for all plots. Initially the transformers
will have a limited capacity but can be converted to larger units at a later
stage. The low voltage system will consist of a 3-phase and neutral over-
head system, mainly following the high voli;age lines and mounted oU the
same poles. At this stage, only consumers along the main roads can be
provided with a power supply (service line). This would include some plots
and public institutions and markets. Street lights will be provided only
along the main roads (A-roads) and will be mounted on poles carrying the
high voltage lines. The distance between the light points will be-about
60 m.
Phase II
The remaining low voltage-system-will consist of-a-3-phase and
neutral overhead system, following the roads or the plot boundaries. This
system will permit an individual power supply (service line) to every plot,
but does rot include the service lines.
Phase III
Service lines to the individual consumer -ll be provided by
TANESCO. In each case, the single phase and neutrai overhead line, including
bracket on houses, 60 A fuse and meter, will be erected by TANESCO at the
consumer's expense, mounting on the average to about TSh250. While a 60 A
power supply is considered to be more than adequate for a "low-cost" house,
it is TANESCO's lowest standard. By using a smaller section of the overhead
service llne, the cost savings are nominal.
P. Cost Estimates
12.       A sumkary table of infrastructure cost estimates for all sites is
shown in Table 1. The cost estimates prepared by consultants are based on
preliminary engineering for the Sinza and Manzese B sites. The estimates
for these sites form the basis for projecting the cost of the remaining
sites. The on-site infrastructure cost for various sites is not expected
to differ significantly. The off-site infrastructure costs for each site
were estimated during site inves-igations.
13.       The infrastructure costs include a 15% physical contingency for
the sites, for which preliminary engineering has been completed, and 25% for
the remaining sites. A 10X physical contingency allowance is provided for
community facilities and the Ardhi Institute building. Due to rapidly
increasing prices, particularly for oil and petro-chemical products, a high
contingency allowance for price escalation is required. For all civil works,
price escalation of 15%, 15%, 12%, and 12% is assumed in 1974, 1975, 1976
and 1977, respectively. This amounts to an overall price contiAgency of
about 312. The breakdown of infrastructure costs of Sinza sit- is shown in



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Table 2. The cost estimates for construction of community facilities (listed
by sites in ANNEX 4) are given in Table 4.
14.       The allocation of cost to residential and community facilities
areas is based on the following criteria. All land acquisition and onsite
infrastructure costs are allocated to households, and community facilities.
All off-site infrastructure costs as well as the cost of consultants'
services for engineering and supervision are attributed to the Government.
The community facilities are allocated a share in proportion to their area
(25% of Sinza).  The households are charged the rest.  Thus, in the case
of Sinza, the residents will be charged 75% of the on-site infrastructure
costs. The allocation of costs among households and Government for all
project sites is given in Table 3.






TAIZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Infrastructure Cost Estimate Summary
(in Thousands of TSh)
Manzese
Sinza    Kijitonyama    Mikocheni       Nayakato    A and B      Mwanjelwa
Item                         Dar          Dar           Dar           Mwanza       Dar          Hbeya        Total
1. Off-site Infrastructure
FDads                          _-             -             _                           506         -            506
Water supply                     -            -             150             -             -         -             150
Sewerage                        -             -             250             -             -         -             250
Power distribution               -            _      -                      -             30        -              30
Sub-total       -            -              400             -           536        -             936
2. On-site Infrastructure
Foads                         3,000         1,531           480           1,000       2,900         966        9,877
Storm water drainage           1,030        1,544           390             690           -         -           3,654
Water supply                   1,250          931         1,220             780        2,340        600         7,121
Sewage disposal                        -      _           2,600             -             - 6                   2,600
Power distribution              560           448           780             310        2,150        451        4,699
Sub-total     5,840        4,454          5,470           2,780       7,390       2,017       27,951
Contingencies
Physical                       876           668         1,467             695        1,585        504         5,795
Price escalation              1,740        1,045         1,880             955        2,313        901         8,834
Sub-total     2,616        1,713          3,347           1,650       3,898       1,405       14,629
TOTAL         8,456        6,167          9,217           4,430      11,824       3,422       43,516   z-ly 
_Hrx CD



ANNEX 5
Page 9
T ble 2
TANZANIA
ATI$AL SrTES AD SERVICES PROJEM
Coat Ureakdoe  f Infrstructure Copawts for S.nza Site
Item                                     specifiatios                     QSatty    Unit    Rate           Cost
T SI:   (1,000 T Sb)
Roeads
A-roeds                        Surfaced road, 6 * wide, 33 a road
r"erve                                        4,200      a      488.1    2,050
8-ro ds                       Rolled gravel surface, 4.5 * wide,
20 a road reserve                              3,400     *      117.6       400
C-roads                       _5 a wide dirt road, 10 a reserve               10,000     a        27.0      270
D-roads                        6 a wide dirt footpath                       42,000      a        6.7       280
Sub-total                                                                                3,000
Storm Water Drainage
Ditches, Type I                Unlined trapezoidal ditch:  base
width 0.3 a, depth 0.5 a; side slopes
1:1.5                                        20,570      a        5.0       103
Ditches, Type I                Sie section an aboe except 0.7 a
deep                                           1,030     i       10.0        10
Ditches, Type III              S  e an type I on restricted reserved
vidth                                          9,650     a         5.4       52
Lining                         Precast concrete slabs 1 n long                2,570     a        50.0      128
Culverts and outfalls          Approxziitely 600 culverts of
variable sizes                                       (1-p sm)               719
Culverts. 30 $, 4 a long                                                         25     No     730          18
Sub-total                                                                                1,030
Water Supply
Site Clearance                                                                      (Lump SIM)               6
Pipec, 280 =  pvc              Tneludes excavation, laying and jointing of
pipes and beckfilling                            500     u       132.0       66
25      "n             n                         1                     1,400     i        94.0      132
160"   n                "           "                        "         3,150     a        55.0      173
10       " n   n                                                       3,200     a       33.0       106
-     90.,- 9                                         "                     9,300     a       25.0       233
63"  . *                                                              3,600     El      20.0        72
50  n   -              n           n            n                      600      a       18.0        11
Fire 1ydrants                  3' fire bydrants on variable pipe size.              (Luip sun)             168
;Vranch offs                  Variable size 900 branch offs                                                 88
Valves                         Variablu size valves                                                         94
Water Xiosks                   Complete water kiosk with 4 no. 3/4" taps         97     Noe  1,045.0       101
Sub-total                                                                                 1.250
Power Supply
High voltage line              Prowide and install 3 phases of 11 K.V         3,000     i        38.5      115
Air circuit breakers           Overhead line including poles                      2    No.   3,as0.0          8
Transtormers                   7 No. transformers of varying specifications          (Imp am)               208
Low voltage line               3 phae 3 x 400/230 V overhead line
including poles and installation               4,70o    'a        22,0      103
Street Lights                                                                       (lamp sum)              126
Sub-total                                                                                   560
TOTAL                                          ~5,840
Contingencies:   taical            * 15%                                                    876
Price escalation  0 30% (approx.)                                        1,7T0
TO_AL                                                                   8_,456



TANZANIA
NATIONIAL SITES AND SERVICES PRWXCT
Cost Allocation Summary
Cost
Area         Number            Land                         j      Community       Government   Household      Total.   Chargeable
Site                (ha)         or Plots           Acquisition    Infrastructure      Facilities       Cost         Cost           Cost     Cost/Plot
_____________________------_-_-----___(in TSh'000)-------------------------             (in TSh)
Dar es Salaamz
Sinza                 234          4,000                1,147         8,456              4,672              7,073        7,202       14,275       1,800
Kijitonyama           160          1,850                1,061         6,167              1,533              3,340        5,421        8,761       2,930
Mikocheni              81          1,600                1,223         9,217              1,533              4,614        7,359       11,973       4,600
Manzese A and B       500          7,600                  600         11,824             5,240              8,980        8,684       17,664       1,140
(Squatter Upgrading)
Mwanza
Nyakato              1no           2,300                  400          4,430             1,962              3,170         3,622       6,792       1,575
Mbeya
Mwanjelwa             140           2,050                 100          3,422             1,218              2,098         2,642       4,740       1,290
(Squatter Upgrading)
TOTAL          _                                4,531         43,516            16,15B             29,275        34,930      64,205         _
1/ Incluoes off-_site irufrastructure costs and contingencies.
w;iI-t
tha1



ANIJEX 5
Page 11
Table 4
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Capital Coat of Community Facilities
(in thousand TSh)
Unit
Site             Facility                         Number       Cost       Coat      Sub-totals
Sinza            Community education centers        2            750       1,500
Dar es Salaam    Urban health center                1         1,130        1,130
4,500 plots      Dispensary                         1           263          263
Large market                      1            300         300
Sma11 market                      1             50          50       3,243
Kijitonyama      CommuLity edLcation center         1           750          750
Dar es Salaam    Dispensary                         1           263          263
1,850 plots      Sa1 I market                       1            50           50       1,063
Mikocheni        Conunmity education center         1           750          750
Dar es Salaam    Dispensary                         1           263          263
1,700 plots      Small market                       1             50          50       1,063
Manzese          Community education centers 1/   5             532        2,660
A and B          Dispensaries                       2            263         526
Dar es Salaam    Large market                       1           300          300
7,600 houses     Small]. markets                    3            50          150       3,636
tJyakato         Community education center         1           750         .750
Mwanza           Dispensary                         1           263          263
2,300 plots      Large market                       1           300          300
Small market                      1             50          50       1,363
Mtanjelwa        ComiLnity education center  1/  1              532          532
Mbeya            Dispensary                         1           263          263
1,200 plots      Small market                       1            50           50         845
Total                                          11,213
Contingencies:  Physical 9 10%                  1,120
Price Escalation-
@ 34% (approx.)                3,825
TOTAL                                          16,158
1/ Community adacation centers in the squatter upgrading areas will be constructed through
self-help labor, resulting in an estimated 30% savings.



AN'NEX 5
Page 12
Table 5
TAIZANIA
IAiTor0AL SITES AND SEYICES PROJECT
Eatimated Schedule of Disbursement
(in Thousand US$)
Cumulative         Cumulative %
Quarter      Quarter Eding         Amount      Di8bursement        Disbursement
1          September 30, 1974      255           255                  3.0
2          December 31, 1974       215           470                  5.5
3          March 31, 1975          550         1,020                 12.0
4e         June 30, 1975           595         1,615                 19.0
5          September 30, 1975      510         2,125                 25.0
6          December 31, 1975       680         2,805                 33.0
7          March 31, 1976          595         3,400                40.0
8          June 30, 1976           680         4,080                 48,0
9          September 30, 1976      765         4,345                 57.0
10          December 31, 1976       765         5,610                 66.o
11          March 31, 1977          850         6,460                 76.0
12          June 30, 1977           850         7,310                 86.0
13          September 30, 1977      340         7,650                 90.0
14          December 31, 1977       255         7,905                 93.0
15          March 31, 1978          170         7,075                 95.0
16          June 30, 1978           170         8,245                 97.0
17          September 31, 1978      170         8,415                 99.0
18          December 31, 1978        85         8,500                100.0






TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1974                             1975                              1976                              1977
SITE                                 _
1       2       3        4       1       2        3       4        1       2        3       4        1       2       3        4
INFRASTRUCTUREXCOMMUNITY FACILITIES
SINZA
par es Salaam       Infrastructure              glossal 11511    _  _   mm          _
Community facilities            eliluhl lossesII mm                   mm
Plot occupation                                                         -       m        -       -        -
KIJITONYAMA
Dar es Salaam       Infrastructure                       mm-      m_ 
Community facilities                        155ll6l IsaIUel am _          i
Plot occupation                                                 _       _                -
MIKOCHENI
Dar es Salaam       Infrastructure                               e1e1111 loSose Ie     U  I m  m
Community facilities                        ielI1h l11N1l                    it __
Plot occupation                                                                                  -                                          -
MANZESE
Da( es Salaam       Infrastructure                 isms igilggie _ m  m   m  _
Community faciiities                        UloeHIl hhlEllie  m   m    m m _
NYAKATO
Mwanza              Infrastructure                               allIoll  1111I1    _     i  m_
Community faccilities           e       e eeeti 5uee               _  _ _-i
Plot occupation
MWANJELWA
Mbeya               Infrastructure                                         Mt31  mlm.mit  tmom    mm                                  _i
Community facilities                         eue   uS                           m       _         _       _        _
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consultafnts Services                              -        -       -                                 -       -        - _i
Ardhi Institute Building                                         Sehl 111           mm    mm i  _     _  
Future Project Prepration                                                                             _       _ 
Monitoring                                U5t  i
Pilot Nutrition Project                                                                                      mm _ 
Training                                                                        asiiui        _
EQUIPMENT/VEHICLES                                                                           -        -       _ u m
TANZANIA HOUSING BANK                                                                                                                                                 6 -   r  _   _
1a1a1f8m8 Design         _m m       Ten)der ing               Construction                                                                                               Wortd Bank-8629






ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
Land Tenure, Building Standards and Ground Rents
A. Pre-Independence
1.        Except for a few small coastal settlements, the development of
urban centers in mainland Tanzania began during the colonial period. 1/
Under the British administration, these centers were divided into high-
density, medium-density, and low-density residential areas, in accordance
with prevailing town planning practices. 2/ The division was based on plot
size, construction standards, and the level of urban services provided.
2.        In the high-density areas, Rlot sizes varied from the "territorial
standard" of about 232 m2 up to 371 m4. There were no Yuilding covenants
or codes and, therefore, construction standards were minimal. So-called
"traditional" construction was used, which consisted of bush poles, mud,
thatch, etc., and self-help techniques. The urban services consisted of
police and fire protection, free water from kiosks, cesapit pumping service,
local streets, and insect-spraying. 3/ The annual charge to the plot
occupants, in the form of a "house tax", was almost negIigible. It was
important to pay this charge, however, because its payment entitled the
plot occupants to a generous compensation if the Government claimed the land
for public purposes. The relatively modest demand for these high-density
plots was met by the Government through its survey and deed plan system
and issuance of short-term Rights-of-Occupancy (usually one year).  Private
landowners leased similar high-density plots on a yearly basis.
1/ Prior to WW 1,Tanganyika was a German colony. After the war, Tanganyika
Territory was set up by the League of Nations as a trusteeship under
British administration. Tanzania became independent in 1962.
2/   For much of the colonial period, Asians, Arabs, and Europeans were the
permanent residents of the towns, while the Africans, with a lesser urban
commitment, were temporary workers who eventually returned to the rural
areas. Accordingly, different provisions were made in the towns for
their housing. Although racial segregation was not sanctioned in Tanganyika.
almost all Africans with urban leaseholds (later Rights-of-Occupancy) lived
in the high-density areas while most Asians and Europeans lived in the
medium- and high-density areas. This pattern has begun to change in recent
years as the Africans have become more urbanized and affluent.
3/ Due to lack of adequate budget, staff and equipment, these services were
by no means universally provided.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        In the medium-density areas, plot si2es varied from 742 x2 up to
half an acre, wheras, plots were often 2,000 %2 or mre in the lw-density
areas.  Land in these areasV  obtained and held on a freehold bmis, and
only "permnent" buildings could be constructed.  In accordane with the
Township (Building) Rules, 1/ the owner had to submit an application to the
Township Authority, furnish detailed plan, dr  ings, and other documents,
and obtain a building permit before constructing any building. The building
materials and procedures, construction standards, and level of urban
services were commensurate with those for townships in the U.K. Levies on
property were based on a percentage of the capital value of undeveloped
freehold land. The capital value was based on recent sales of vacant land,
and 42 of capital value was taken as a reasonable charge. Due to this low
de-capitalieation rate, the charges were often substantially les than the
market rental value of the property.
4.        In areas outside, but near township boundaries, many traditional
houses were built on unsurveyed land surrounding the urban centers. These
houses were constructed and occupied under tribal or traditional law, which
permitted the occupants to use the land without legal title until the Govern-
ment aeeded it for some public purpose. As urbanization took place, the
occupants often "subdivided" and "sold" the land in small parcels. The
newcomers would simply make a payment to the person in charge of allocating
land on behalf of the tribe or local group. Such transactions were not re-
corded, and no surveys, legal titles, or other docmentation were involved.
This process did not cause-ignificant problems until the late 1950's 'hen
the urbani2atton rate began to increase rapidly.
B. Pot-Independence
5.        The Freehold Titles Conversion and Government Leases Act, 1963,
abolished freehold land within townships and in areas where township bound-
aries had been expanded to embrace land held under traditionial tenure.
According to the Act, the ownership of all land in these areas is vented
in the State and must be registered with the Commissioner for Lands in the
Ministrv of Lands, Hous..g and Urban Development (Ardhi).  Eery user of
land is required to have a Right-of-Occupancy issued by the Coissioner.
6.        In the high-density areas, the Government continued its policy of
issuing short-term Rights-of-Occupancy, permitting the construction of
traditional houses, and providing minimal urban services. The Goverraent
also continued to charge a tax, fixed at TShlOO per year, to help defray the
cost of the urban services. A fixed schedule of ground rents, however, was
1 / Tangayika, Townships Ordinance, The Township (Building) Rules, Cap. 101
(Revised), 1960.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
introduced for the privilege of using land on a yearly basis and for the
issuance of the short-term Right. 1/ The rents were standardized for
administrative convenience, recognizing that certain anomalies would inevit-
ably arise. The rents varied according to plot size and location (i.e.
distance from the urban center), but in all cases, they were set at "sub-
economic" levels. Thus, the ground rent for a 232 m2 plot varied from
TSh75-100 per year, depending upon its location, whereas for a 371 m2 plot
the rent varied from TShM2O-160 per year. Ground rents for every small
plot (i.e. 93-140 m2) ranged from TSh45-60 per year.
7.        In medium and low-density areas, former freehold landowners were
issued long-term Rights-of-Occupancy (usually 33 years). The Government
has continued to permit only permanent buildings to be constructed in these
areas, and the requirements given in the Township (Building) Rules and the
level of urban services have been maintained. However, since land is
nationalized and land sales are no longer possible, a new tendering system
has been introduced for estimating the capital value of undeveloped land.
The rate of 4% is still taken as a reasonable charge (i.e. ground rent) for
the use of the land.
8.        To estimate the capital value of a particular surveyed plot, a
rent and reserved premium are assigned and the plot is advertised for tender.
Interested persons submit tenders with the expectation of recouping their
premium through net returns from the use of the land. Normally, the highest
tender is accepted, but a lower tender can be preferred when there are com-
pelling reasons. The capital value is determined by summing the capital-
ized rent and the accepted tender or premium. For example, if (i) the rent
is fixed at TSh200 per year, and (ii) the reserved premium is TSh1,000, but
the accepted tender is TSh2,000, the capital value would be: TSh200 - 0.04
+ 2,000, or TSh7,000. Capital values and rents for other plots in the same
area would be based on these figures: i.e. the calculated capital value is
divided by the plot area to get a rate per m2, and then this rate is applied
to similar plots nearby to determine their comparable capital values and
rents payable. All tenders were analyzed in 1969 by the Chief Valuer (Ardhi)
for the whole of Dar es Salaam, Arusha, and Mwanza, and were scaled to fit
other townships throughout the country.
9.        Long-term Rights-of-Occupancy can also be obtained for surveyed
plots in high-density areas, and the capital values and ground rents are
calculated as illustrated above (para. 8). The primary advantage of a
long-term Right--regardless of plot location--is that it is mortgageable
and can be used to secure a construction loan from the Tanzania Housing
Bank (THB). A major disadvantage is that the construction standards given
in the Townshin (BuildinR) Rules apply, and a minimum value or cost of the
1/   Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Land Division
Instruction Number 39, "Rents for Short-Term Rights-of-Occupancy
Held by Africas and Non-Africans in Towns," 1963.



ANhNM 6
Page 4
house to be constructed is stipulated as a covenant or condition of the
Right.  This minlmam value is usually about TSh15,000 in high-density areas
and mach greater in low-density areas. Its effect is to discourage the vast
majority of the people from securing a long-term Right. Another disadvantage
is that the level of urban services usually associated with long-tenr Rights
are simply not provided in high-density areas.
10.       The issuing of Rights-of-Occupancy is part of a larger, complicated
effort by the Government to provide low-cost housing and urban services.
This highly fragmented effort is generally characterized by budget and staff
constraints and cumbersome administrative procedures, particularly at the
regional level of govermnmt.  The lack of surveyors and_valuers has severely
limited the availability of surveyed plots with short or long-ter Rights.
In Dar es Salam, the waiting list for plots maintained by the Mzizima District
Land Office (DLO) 1/ consists of about 18,000 applications dating back to 1967,
whereas the list maintained by the National Housing Corporation (NHLC) consists
of about 19,600 applications dating back to 1964. There is probably a great
overlap between these lists, and some applicants undoubtedly have died,
returned to rural areas, or are no longer interested or able to secure a plot.
Nevertheless, these lists indicate a great demand for plots which the Govern-
ment is unable to fulfill. This demand is great even though the applicants
know that few urban services will actually be provided, and that credit for
the purchase of building materials is very limited and costly.
11.       Plots with short-term and long-term Rights-of-Occupancy also carry
high front-end costs. Upon accepting the Right, the plot-occupant is ..equired
to pay a premium (similar to a downpayment) and several fees. For residential
plots, the premium is generally twice the ground rent. Thus, the front-end
costs for two surveyed plots (about 371 m2 each) with long-term Rights in two
high-density areas in Dar es SalAam are as follows:
Ki itony us     Temeke
- TSh --_
Ground xent                                    19O ." 200
Premium for Right-of-Occupancy                 380           400
Certificate of Occupancy tee                    40            40
Registration Fee                                55            25
Survey Fee                                      25            75
Deed Plan Fee                                   35            35
Stamp Duty                                     121            30
Total                                     846           805
1/   As of January 1, 1974, the Dar es Salaam Statutory Planning Area became
a regional administration, divided into three new districts. Under the
old organization, the boundaries of the Mzizima District were equivalent
to those of the Muncipality of Dar es Salms.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Some of the above fees appear to have been arbitrarily determined. This
might be due to the fact that the two Rights were accepted about a year apart
(July 31, 1971 and July 1, 1972, respectively). The important point, however,
is that the total front-end costs probably represent about two monthly salaries
for the plot-applicants, which must be paid within 30 days after accepting the
Right.
C. Changes Under the New National Sites and Services Progrr
12.       In establishing the new National Sites and Services Program, the
Government reviewed its policies and procedures for land tenure, building
standards, and payments, and instituted some important changes. This was
part of an attempt by the Government to reshape and expand its entire effort
for providing low-income people with residential land, basic urban infra-
structure, and credit for the purchase of building materials. A major study
was carried out by consultants for reorganizing Ardhi so as to reflect its
changed role under the Government's decentralization policy and to improve
its performance in housing and land development. 1/ A Sites and Services
Section was created within Ardhi's new Housing Development Division to act
as the principal unit for planning, coordinating, admiuistering, constructing,
and supervising sites and services projects (ANNEX 2). Also, the THB was
established primarily for the purpose of mobilizing domestic savings and
foreign funds for financing low-cost housing for individuals and cooperative
groups (ANNEX 1).
13.       New locations for sites and services pro4ects will be designated as
high-density areas, with plot sizes of about 288 m . Squatter improvement
areas will also be designated as high-density areas, but the plots will gen-
erally be larger and irregular in shape due to block surveyin3. All plot-
occupants will be issued a long-term Right-of-Occupancy covering a period of
25 years. This period coincides with the expected economic life of a well-
constructed and maintained Swahili-type house. The plot-occupant will be able
to use the Right to secure a construction loan from the THB. If the Government
later decides to withdraw the Right and to use the land for some public purpose,
the plot-occupant is eligible for compensation. If the plot-occupant wishes
to sell his plot, the Right reverts back to the Government for re-issue.
14.       There is no minimum value covenant included in the Right, and the
Township (Building) Rules do not apply. However, the Sites and Services
Section and the National Housing and Building Research Unit (NHBRU) in Ardhi,
in collaboration with the THB, are formulating house designs, building
1/   The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, "Concentrating ARDHI's
Efforts on Development--The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development,
A Study by McKinsey and Company, Inc., June 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
standards, and technical specifications, which will moeet both the Government's
economic life criterion of 25 years and the budget of low-income households.
The hous, dsigns include siuple layouts for single- and ultiple-fauily units,
and provide for the use of a variety of building materials including the
traditional materials (bush Voles, mud, thatch, etc.), stabilized soll-cment
blocks, cocertet  blocks, burnt clay bricks, and corrugated iron, and alumim
roof sheets. Building standards and technical specifications are provided
for self-help laborers, fundis (artisans), and contractors.  These house
designs, building standards and technical specifications are intended to
provide the basis for the couplets revision of Tanzamia's building rules
presently underway.
15.       Th. charges-to plot-occupants-in-sites and services-areas are
related to the market value of the plots, and take into account changes in
construction costs (i.e., building materials, labor, etc.), materials and
price contingencies, and the willingness and ability of people to pay. The
charges are divided into two components: statutory ground rent and chargeable
ground rent   The statutory ground rent is a charge for the privilege of using
land, whereas the chargeable ground rent is based on the cost of on-site
Infrastructure, including contingencies.
16.       The calculation of the statutory ground rent is based on capitalized
rents and the tendering system used for estimating the capitaL value of un-
developed land uith long-term Rights-of-Occupancy (paras 7-8). For the Siuza
site (Dar es Salem), for sample, where the unit capital value is calculated
as TShO.30 per sq ft and the -averago plot size is 3,100 sq ft (288 a2), the
average capital value per plot is TSh930 (i.e., 0.30 x 288). The statutory
ground rent is taken as 41 of the capital value, or about TSh37 per year
(i.e., 0.04 x 930 - 37.2, (TSh37). To calculate the chargeable ground
rent for each plot, casts for the co untity facilities (including 251 of the
costs for related infrastructure), off-site infrastructure. and consultants
services, are taken out of the total development cost for each project site,
and the remaining mount is charged to the plots in proportion to their areas.
Por a plot in Sinsa, the chargeable ground rent (i.e., assignable development
cost per plot) is TShl,800. A 10% downpayment is required (about TShM8M),
and the remaining imount is -aortized over 25 years at 9Z interest. Thus,
the annual chargeable ground rent per plot is TSh162.7, (TShW63). Thus.
the total ground rent for a plot in Sinza is TMM200 per year (i.e., 37 + 163,
or about T3h17 per mouth.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
Organization of the
Tanzania Housing Bank
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN
[ GENERAL MANAGER J
- ,--,~~--,-,  ~~    ,rrt~~.       I                        HOUSING ADVISOR
ADMINISTRATION                         FINANCE                         OPERATIONS                         PROMOTION                          NATIONAL    ]
DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                            RANCHES        J
Manager                             Chief Accountant                 Manager                            Manager
Assistant Manager                   Assistant Chief Accountant       Assistant Manager                  Assistant Manager
Administration Officer              Accountant                       Operations Officer                 Promotion Officer
Assistant Administration Officer    Assistant Accountants            Assistant Operations Officer       Assistant Promotion Officer
Senior Administration Clerks        Senior Accountants Clerk         Senior Operations Clerk            Senior Promotion Officer
Administration Clerks               Accounts Clerk                   Operations Clerk                   Promotion Clerk
World Bank-8184(R)






1ANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Organization of the
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
Prior to Decentralization
MINISTER              -        _    National Housing
Registrar of                          PRINCIPAL
Buidinjgs                          SECRETARY
INVESTIGATION                                 ARDHI                                                             FINANCE AND
AND PLANNING                                VALUTI                                                            ESTABLISHtMENT
DIViSION                D~~IVI IVIINDNIINDIIINDIVISION                                                                                                          RN    RBNLDVSO
Principal Assistant   e                                                                                        Pincipal Assistant
and ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       :        E Acout                                                                                                                             - satshet
NSce atinl  osngV  utoDCsoarySechcatrlyLglSuv
R--T--Pating                                                                Fir4                                                            Map Production
~~~~~_                                           TonPlanningJ Sevie  LadRetMaaen
Tr_nn,                                                                                                     Acquis*tion                         Registry
TOWtN PLANNING                       HOUSING                          VALUATION                            LAND                         LAND REGISTRY                                                     SURVEYS & MAPPING
DIViSION                         DIVISION                          DIVISION                          DIVISION                            DIVISION        |RENT TRIBUNAL                                     DIVISION
Di0rector                    _     Commissioner                       Chief Vahtser              _    Commissioner                           Regis trar                       Chairman                        Comm issio ler
oneral Office s.-Adminitaion |                                         3                                 3                                 3a{3                                              tAdtiost                      ]
Reand Accounts                                                      T      Zonal
iNationat Housing |Valuaustmaroin
= 1   <i& Building                                                                                    Restr                                                      1
rtesearch Unit  IM  -p- ad- ,.n
pi .    {       :                  I                I      an FRet 1
LTrainingy
Zonal Offlices.III  
Research andI                                                      The   oal        l_                                        I
l  Llbraly    l               I       Otlices     lt         _         Colisents    1                    3~~~~~~~~~Docuent
| Economic I 
{ra 3ing  Olfice               Dotted lines denote that the Minister is the Chairman ot the Board of the National Housing Corporation
and the Principal SecretarV is-the Chdirmdn of the Board of the Rcgistrar of Buildings,                                                                                      Wo-ld   iiank-8185



TANZANIA
NATIQNAt SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
0 Ii nain oftIhe
mMbhy go Lands. Hovu" ad iUban O.elopn.nt
aftw Doatnibation
tz~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~-
bw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L,D W..t'e.tSt, d
[Y1~~~~~~~~~~~1
I~~~~~~0.eo .no 1no
Ei{E
| f..                  -..._              _,-                                                 ,.
|  Dif te | | Dile~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rc'u,! im1|O*teX                          -.|t D tn'tute                 |tto
StL,.oswra5 bu.  i e,*z,, @ .t..b
_v                              7] LU    Lr' .1ll
I~~~~~Hw



UGANDA %             .-~--   K E---.                                                                    TANZAN IA
U G A N    2' V / C  O R  At              K E N Y A    NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Bukoba-rm-
LOCATION  OF  PROJECT  AREAS
R W A N D A      1  |       g       /     r' Bukim8-/ \                                                              O*T L      -CATIO
J \ / / Nrzn5is ~~~~~~~LAKE                                     tWU  *r _
\~~ N  A'$~~~~. L ~NATRON
*'Kj'~NqapeJ    NyamMirrnbe        n  ' ,            -                                               - - -
p~~~~~~
- S<    M         /ly                             N  XIuwr;              C         s wGeito 
3VIu  U. N,, 01,                                           l.....                      f.    Nyungu  ......................Mondu AFiC
B           '7    !(ibondo,           K                 hinyongo                     LAE MANYARA Aru                        ,
Nzegacl8@       K j  :g<*<   t.    SltiomboidrJr    tJdo;   jZ        09 n a          PEMBA
LU
D / ( 4 - -2 | / /)S~~~~~~~~~~~anyoeni
ZANZIBAR
> f7 \0J~~~~pando                                                                                                       t)X;a,w B m>
ES SALAAM
< ' 8    3              9           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~n             a    ilooheg ( orogoro                             
o~~**  .vr IIAI I A twr
M U     L L                                      * I                        Q               Q
m henge~~~~~~~~~~~MAI
Ki   0 Mok
ALAWI    vMbarnb~~~~~~~~~~~~BaY.36  ~ ~ ~       ~       ~        Mtar






IBRDr 1O699,
I.,       W            - "         'A**7 X j );'                                 0                                 $                                                    00 \ i; t i: \ p \50 4 \r; : :'0(   X  JANUARY 1974
- :  ' .   '.'.4U;:r;t   J Y   MLS  v- Z-                                                                       P    A o P   -reL N ew \
/  - ~~~~~~~j  Up~~~Vgrading of Sevatter Areas
ANYANIA                                                                                                                   'e weetrai Area
I      -                     Plann~~~~~~~~~~f.ed Residential Areas
tASASANI                            SPontted Residentil Arecs
rf                                                                                                         S I D   \   <   A a   \  S \? i  i 0  r    0      E ST A S  Lend Resersed tar Noa-resideNtil Purposes
ES TAT E                            pca lsiour
t ,4 W D \ s 0 i X t i i: R E ; ( gtX ,, 0 Inoustrl                                                                              rl, Se,cla             es, Port rti,ities
5-:r54<A.   r    .     PWater Mans
t - -  auz A3= <<,_(4vi __>_                                                                           It  = j _ s < a, * , _  ProjPct Roads
Mour Reads
rduo/ildtsFLl   \\RESROS   b 0= oil  urN!.S_u  M r i n Roads
/            B              tE A m 4&r f 5ffi ry \ ri     -  ; - |er Roads
>( X 7 Xn ; ; j ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~S TF" .IO.R                                                                       .     ,''Pat-ays
Flooded Areas
- '  Jlir    i2 R e
~~~~~~'<~~~~~~~~A    @_ ES  SALAAM-\00;\\ ESITE   ,i        t0tLtOCATRsIONS
< X D s stN2A // LatF lV r ri ' r! '.r, .,_ , ,A *';| S1 g g r rv r \ J r J Mll ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LLCI-TFR
5"s_                _7 ?              v                    C          >^>X<  
4 Tlr mSb. S/g, 5>^s; >s s  grJur>+dw Ux Ug r fs,  irL Sl4t2/
t'<) f<,80\y/Fugh%;gBir A4 5s+F  4>   t                                                     t,,,                                            /+A
X Xr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5MAIfW 
/ U  ;~~ -,-                             ;                            D                  -DEL<
<, g f '> ~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
X  _  t.                                  0                              ~~~~~~~~~DAR ES SALAAM-SITE LOCATIONS






IBRD 10701
3                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1974
-                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SINZA LAYOUT PLAN
T  A  N    Z  A  N  I                                                                                                            RADg_>~aS,.< _ cbsA
- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&-M- c.A
1L.I7TL^~                                                    /___\                    S                                                      o Ims (Ph-I)
jj_,_ _ s__ _ _  _ _  _   _ _   _                        /                                                                             _  '*-   _Trnfo _
L- C   .+-d i (Ph..1I
z,   Vv    s    /             A   \    w \           yF  r                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~160mmPVC oxd bob-
g   4  _  $  V     \       o@\                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING FEATURES.
,  i  \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    -d',                                      P   \;. Wd
AL,{-<i'  f   t1  WaS  '                -/a         he--()~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-  f
%                                                                                              A<  N Z   Ddhb       
'Wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ff
' ' METERS                                                           M                                 'A     ,  '    ANZN  A 9






<, .    32 ro2e       .          -de 7       I 
>,.R J : k ~~~~~F N Y A
TANZANI A
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
,  T A N Z A N I A           iP.mia 9                                 To /fJ/TO/|/YAhA                                                             SINZA-PLOT LAYOUT PLAN
ZAtR~~~~~~__                                                                 ______~          ~ ~~~~SNZ
OF                                            '
A 5. M  bovI A
foMANAZFSEF B
Acc-s Roods
I fj Ros&demt,  Aseos
Op-c A                                                                       -
p"-ly~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
-Precory School                                                                   4 ..-   /                    <     /  
Nursery School
Rel,g -oos    SOc                 To   tlocooc.o     Rood
A,..e                                                                           .......
0    50    W           200          300
R,v.,                                                                                                                                                             ME T ETRS                                         Z






IBRD  10703
JANUARY 1974
TANZANIA
NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
MANZESE B- LAYOUT PLAN
TANZANIA                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT ROADS:
D.    S.I... TtN                                                                                                                                                                     -     _  t nned  Road   (Closs A)
V Do " Sola    %                                                                                                                                                           Granel Roods (Class B)
0-0-                                                                                                                                                                     k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hp-ond Tr-k, (Class C)
-  P-  Off-S.te Po... Lioe
-  -  -th Voltage 0,erhead L.nes (Phase 1)
ZAM ESA                              ,-                                                                                                                                                                              1 _) T ososfonnes-  (PhLase   EI
LoV,I Vtage Owh.dea  Line (Phase)J
** Street Lights (PIosel)
LowV Onehitad L..e, (Phase 11)
FLTITUA MA2 ROAO                                                                                                                                              WAATIER SLUPPLY
.  .N;1 s, .. F . BN:. t. 1. .... F//zE MA/IV FOAD e X S Wa Kiosks (Stond Kp s)~~~~~~~~~~~atw  ioss (Sand ipa
Pins Hyd-ats
O ff- Site Watesr Mains
110 MM PVC Pipes aod Ab-oa
-  90MM PVC Pipes and Below
*    9  /   %u4ENBlV  FOR MARY AAM/I                                    ,,   ManValv s
X .                   1'/                                  n                                                  LAKE TANDA'E
t 5- 1- T                                                                                                                                   1a 
APPROXLMATE  SCALES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~CNER                                                   PIMRY,HO
\   0  9                                                                          X   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLAYING RELD5   a 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AK
0  SD    100      ~ ~200          300           400           5X 0                                                                                       SURVEYED AND ALLOCATED PLOTS                                             y\
M?      E      I              -     - S
0    rJ0        ~~200          30D         400          50D 0 
APPXOXIMATE SCALES         YARDS                                                                                                                     : 4                                                             #



