CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 495 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sites and Services Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 12, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 495 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sites and Services Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 12, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1974, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) fhe Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part F of the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania Housing
Bank (hereinafter called THB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to THB the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and THB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and THB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4.
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and THB pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Ardhi" means the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
of the Borrower;
(d)   "Sites and Services Section" means the section established within Ardhi
which is responsible for planning and implementing the sites and services program
of the Borrower;
(e)   "Ardhi Institute" means the institute established within Ardhi to
provide training in surveying, valuation and town planning;
(f)   "Building Code" means the Township (Building) Rules, Cap. 101
(Revised), 1960, of the Borrower, as such Rules may be amended from time to
time, or in the event that such Rules are repealed, such other enactment of the
Borrower as may supersede such Rules;
(g)   "Rights-of-Occupancy" means the rights issued pursuant to the
Government Leaseholds (Conversion to Rights of Occupancy) Act, 1969, which
entitle the holders thereof to use township land for periods of up to 99 years;
(h)   "Statutory Ground Rent" means the charge imposed by the Borrower
on the holder of a Right-of-Occupancy for the privilege of using land;
(i)   "Chargeable Ground Rent" means the charge imposed by the Borrower
on the holder of a Right-of-Occupancy to recover his pro rata share of the land
development cost for the infrastructure constructed in the sites and services area
in which he lives;
(j)   "TSh" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(k)   "Housing Cooperative" means a cooperative society established or to
be established under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1968, of the Borrower, as such
Act may be amended from time to time, for the purpose of carrying out housing
activities.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an


﻿5
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand
dollars ($8,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in ac ordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1984 and ending March 1, 2024, each installment to -,nd including
the installment payable on March 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, through Ardhi, shall carry out Parts A
through E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering, public utility and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause THB to carry
out Part F of the Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
THB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend to THB such portion of the proceeds of
the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association for Part F of the Project under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and THB
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests bf the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to assist
the Borrower in:
(i)         preparing the design and detailed engineering and in supervising
the construction of the basic infrastructure and community
facilities included in Part A of the Project and the civil works
included in Part B of the Project;
(ii)        carrying out the training included in Part B of the Project; and
(iii)       carrying out the studies included in Part D of the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil works included in Parts A and B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause Ardhi to maintain separate records
adequate to record the progress of Parts A to E of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the
Association's representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall cause Ardhi
to furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning Parts A to E of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit thereon and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(i)          construct or improve, or cause to be constnicted or improved,
the infrastructure and community facilities included in Part A
of the Project substantially in accordance with the design
standards set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(ii)         waive, or cause to be waived, the housing construction standards
included in the Building Code which are applicable to residential


﻿8
housing constructed in areas included in the Project by plot
occupants who have been issued Rights-of-Occupancy and in
place thereof, shall issue such interim housing construction
standards as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(iii)       prepare a draft of the revision of the Building Code for review
by the Association and make such revision effective by
December 31, 1976.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall allocate, or cause to be allocated, the plots to be developed under Part A
of the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Ardhi Institute to restructure
its town planning curriculum in order to provide practical training which is relevant
to the needs of the urban areas of the Borrower.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)         fill all vacancies at professional levels in the Sites and Services
Section no later than June 30, 1975;
(ii)        cause the Sites and Services Section to be staffed at all times
by adequate and competent staff; and
(iii)       give priority  to assigning graduates of the Ardhi Institute's
training program referred to in Part B(2) of the Project to the
sites and services program of the Borrower before assigning such
graduates to any other planning 6r housing program.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause the infrastructure and community
facilities included in Part A of the Project to be maintained, operated and staffed
in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, public utility, public
health and educational practices, as the case may be, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for this purpose.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.


﻿9
Section 3.11. By December 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
implement the pilot nutrition program referred to in Part E of the Project in
consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Ardhi to establish and maintain
a separate Project account to be used exclusively for the Project in which Ardhi
would record (i) all of Ardhi's receipts and expenditures for or in connection with
Parts A to E of the Project and (ii) any payments of Chargeable Ground Rent
with respect to the sites included in Part A of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Ardhi to: (i) have the Project account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the Project account for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Project
account and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)         the Borrower shall set, or cause Ardhi to set, Chargeable Ground
Rents on plots in each site included in Part A of the Project
at levels sufficient to recover seventy-five per cent (75%) of the
land development cost of infrastructure constructed in each such
site in approximately equal annual installments over a maximum
period of twenty-five years at a minimum rate of interest of
nine per cent (9/) per annum:
(ii)        the Borrower shall collect, or cause Ardhi to collect, from each
prospective plot occupant before each such occupant takes
possession of his plot a charge equal to ten per cent (10%) of
the pro rata share assigned to such plot of the total estimated
land development cost of the infrastructure constructed in the
sites and services area in which he lives; and


﻿10
(iii)       the Borrower shall cause Ardhi to take such action as may be
necessary to ensure the efficient collection from plot occupants
of Statutory Ground Rent and the Chargeable Ground Rent.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by THB of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of THB and, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its administrative subdivisions
and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such administrative subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of THB and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carr'ying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by THB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   THB shall have failed to perform   any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or THB shall have 'ailed to perform      any of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loran Agreement;
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that THB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement; and


﻿12
(d)   the organization, powers or responsibilities of THB shall have been
altered so as to affect adversely the execution of Part F of the Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditi(Ins,
the following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
THB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and THB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, THB, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of THB in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and THB,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
THB in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 18, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.09 and Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this


﻿13
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿14
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / G. M. Chaguza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Director, Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Civil works                   3,900,000          65% of total
expenditures
2.   Equipment and                   150,000
vehicles
(a)  Imported goods                              100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Locally manu-                               65% of local
factured goods                              expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(c)  Imported goods                              50% of local
procured locally                            expenditures
3.   Consultants' serv-              600,000           100% of foreign
ices and training                                expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
4.   THB's disbursements           2,000,00            50% of amounts
for house construc-                              disbursed
tion or improvement
loans under Part F
of the Project
5.   Pilot nutrition
program (excluding              5000n5%ofloa
consultants serv-
ices) and Project
monitoring
6.   Unallocated                   1,00,000
TOTAL        8,500,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 3 on account of expenditures
incurred after December 31, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request


﻿17
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by 'notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
of local expenditures under Category 5 shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is included in the Borrower's national sites and services program
for the years 1974 through 1977 designed to enable lower-income urban households
to acquire developed plots and to construct residential houses on such plots. The
Project consists of the following parts:
Part A
(1)   The provision of land, its development and the construction and
installation of the necessary basic infrastructure and related facilities
thereon (including, inter alia, roads, storm water drainage, water
supply, sewage disposal and power supply) as follows:
(a)   In the Dar es Salaam Region:
(i)         A  site of about 230 hectares at Sinza to be
developed for about 4,000 plots;
(ii)        A site of about 160 hectares at Kijitonyama to be
developed for about 1,850 plots; and
(iii)       A site of about 80 hectares at Mikocheni to be
developed for about 1,600 plots.
(b)   A site of about 110 hectares at Nyakato in Mwanza to be
developed for about 2,300 plots.
(c)   A site of about 60 hectares at Mwanjelwa in Mbeya to be
developed for about 870 plots.
(2)   The improvement of the basic infrastructure and related facilities on
about 500 hectares of existing squatter settlements at Manzese A and
B in Dar es Salaam Region and about 80 hectares of existing squatter
settlements at Mwanjelwa in Mbeya, such settlements including an
aggregate total of about 8,800 dwellings.
(3)   The construction of, and the provision of equipment and furniture
for, community facilities (about eleven community education centers,


﻿19
one health center, seven dispensaries and eleven markets) on the sites
and in the settlements included in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Part.
Part B
(1)   The expansion of the physical facilities used by the Ardhi Institute
for the purpose of providing sub-professional training in surveying,
valuation and town planning.
(2)   The establishment of a program, including the provision of equipment
and materials, at the Ardhi Institute for the purpose of training civil
and sanitary technical assistants and land administrators.
Part C
(1)   The purchase and utilization of an adequa-e number of vehicles,
including inter alia cesspit emptiers and refuse collection trucks, to
service the settlements included in Parts A(l) and (2) of the Project.
(2)   The purchase and utilization by Ardhi of equipment to assist in
carrying out the Project.
Part D
Studies for the preparation of further sites and services and water
supply projects, including monitoring of the impact and effect of the Project.
Part E
The establishment of a pilot nutrition program for the purpose of:
(i)         investigating the nutritional status of residents of the areas
included in Part A of the Project; and
(ii)        based upon the investigations carried out under paragraph (i)
of this Part:
(a)   developing   capabilities  for   the   preparation   and
dissemination of appropriate nutritic.. information; and
(b)   taking such other remedial measures as may be appropriate
to improve the nutritional status of such residents.


﻿20
Part F
The provision by THB of house construction or improvement loans
to households having acquired plots included in Part A(1) of the Project
or living in the existing squatter settlements included in Part A(2) of the
Project.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
1.    The Borrower shall group the civil works contracts for each site included
in Part A of the Project. Bidders shall be permitted to bid on any or all civil
works contracts for each such site.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works:
(a)   Bidders shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿22
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
B.    Contracts Not Subject to International Competition
With respect to any contract for equipment or vehicles, the Borrower may
award such contracts on a competitive basis in accordance with its usual
procurement procedures, provided that identical or similar items of equipment or
vehicles shall be bulked to the extent possible for the purpose of inviting bids.
For any contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of this sub-paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
As,sociation shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
C.    Preference for Domestic Civil Works Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category 1 of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors, as determined
by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. Applicants applying for preference shall be asked to
provide such information, including details of ownership, as the Borrower shall
require to determine whether according to the Borrower's established classification
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. A list of
prequalified bidders identifying those eligible for preference, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification or eligibility for preference, shall be furnished by
the Borrower to the Association for its comments and the Borrower shall make
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request before the applicants are invited to bid.


﻿23
(b)   Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
(d)   After bids have been evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Services
Level I*                         Level II**
Roads
Right-of-way/Travelway
Class A                  33.0 m/6.0                      33 m/6.0 m
Class B                  20.0 m/4.5                      20 m/4.5 m
Class C                  10.0 m/5.0                      10 m/5.0 m
Class D                   6.0 m/6.0                       6 m/6.0 m
Surface
Class A          Treated macadam surface on stabilized gravel base.
Class B          Rolled gravel surface suitable for light vehicular
traffic.
Class C          Compacted ground for pedestrian and emergency vehicle
access.
Class D          Compacted ground for pedestrian and emergency vehicle
access.
Drainage
Storm Drainage         Unlined open ditches along the roads, with culverts
at vehicular crossings. Ditches will be lined
in steep areas.
Foul Water Drain-      Aqua privies with                      Common pit
age              central sewer                           latrines.
system and oxi-
dation pond.
Water Supply
Distribution Sys-     Individual plot                         One water
tem              connection.                             kiosk/50 plots.
Provision for
individual plot
connection at a
later stage.
Electricity
House Supply           Distribution mains passing through the area.
Individual connections to be provided
whenever enough buyers are available.
Street Lighting        Security street lighting along main roads and
near public facilities.
*     Mikocheni (Dar es Salaam).
**    Sinza, Kijitonvama Manzese (Dar es Salaam); Nyakato (Mwanza);
Mwanjelwa (Mbeya).


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
Allocation of Plots
1.   Information   concerning  the   availability  of  plots  and  related
Rights-of-Occupancy will be disseminated by the Borrower through the mass media
and other appropriate means.
2.    Interested persons will submit applications for Rights-of-Occupancy to either
Ardhi, Regional Land Offices or the appropriate TANU (Tanganyika African
National Union) channel. Such applications will be forwarded to the Land
Allocation Committees in the respective regions for selection in accordance with
specified criteria, with preference given for inter alia:
(i)        applicants previously displaced by public works projects;
(ii)       the applicant's number of immediate dependents residing in his
household;
(iii)      applicants who do not own a house in the proximate area where
the sites and services area is located;
(iv)       the length of time the applicant has spent on waiting lists for
housing;
(v)        applicants whose residence and employment are in Dar es
Salaam, Mwanza or Mbeya; and
(vi)       households with monthly incomes below TSh750, or such other
amount as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.


