                                Document of the World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                           Report No. 57565-BJ




                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                       SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING DOCUMENT

                                            FOR A

                       PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14 MILLION

                           (EQUIVALENT TO US$ 22 MILLION)

                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                           FOR THE

                   SIXTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT

                                       (March 21, 2011)




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                     BENIN - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 ­ December 31

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 2, 2010)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                   US$1.00 = CFAF500

                             WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                        Metric System

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CARE      Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere (Care International)
CGC       Cellule de Gestion de Crises
CFAF      CFA Franc
ECF       Extended Credit Facility
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFDRR     Global Fund for Disaster Risk Management
GFRP      Global Food Response Program
IDA       International Development Association
IFRC      International Federation of the Red Cross
IMF       International Monetary Fund
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
ONASA     Office Nationale d'Appui à la Sécurité Alimentaire (Food Security Support Office)
PDNA      Post-Disaster Needs Assessment
PER       Public Expenditure Survey
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
SBEE      Société Béninoise d'Énergie et d'Électricité (Energy and Electricity Company of Benin)
SCO       Société de Ciments d'Onigbolo (Onigbolo Cement Company)
SCRP      Stratégie de Croissance pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper)
SDR       Special Drawing Right
SONAPRA   Société Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole (National Cotton Company)
UN        United Nations
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNHCR     United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF    United Nations Childrens Fund
WASH      Water, Sanitation and Hygeine
WFP       World Food Program

                           Vice President      :   Obiageli Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
                         Country Director      :   Madani M. Tall (AFCF2)
                           Sector Director         Marcelo Guigale (AFTPM)
                          Sector Manager       :   Miria Pigato (AFTP4)
                        Task Team Leader       :   Cal MacWilliam (AFTP4)


                                               i
                                                                 REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                         SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING FOR THE SIXTH POVERTY
                                  REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT



                                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.          BACKGROUND ................................................................................................................................................ 1
2.          THE IMPACT OF THE CRISIS ........................................................................................................................ 3
3.          THE GOVERNMENTS RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS .................................................................................. 5
4.          BANKS RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ......................................................................................................... 7
5.   THE REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED THROUGH THE SIXTH POVERTY REDUCTION
SUPPORT CREDIT: AN UPDATE ................................................................................................................................ 8
             A.           Economic Performance Since the Approval of PRSC6...................................................................... 8
             B.           Reform Progress Since the Approval of PRSC6 .............................................................................. 11
             C.           Poverty and Social Impact Analysis ................................................................................................. 13
             D.           Environmental Issues ........................................................................................................................ 14
6.          RATIONALE FOR PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING ............................................................. 14
7.          IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .................................................................................................... 16
             A.           Terms of the Supplemental Financing .............................................................................................. 16
             B.           Funds Flow and Auditing Requirements for the Supplemental Financing ...................................... 17
8.          BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................................................................................................. 18
             A.           Benefits .............................................................................................................................................. 18
             B.           Risks .................................................................................................................................................. 18
List of Annexes

Annex 1: IMF Relations Note ....................................................................................................................................... 20
Annex 2: Progress on PRSC 4-6 Monitoring Indicators .............................................................................................. 21
Annex 3: Country at a Glance ........................................................................................................................................ 22


List of Figures

Figure 1: Affected Areas ................................................................................................................................................. 2


List of Tables

Table 1: Key Economic Indicators, 2007-2013 ............................................................................................................. 10




                                                                                        ii
                              REPUBLIC OF BENIN

            SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING FOR THE SIXTH POVERTY
                     REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT

                          Grant and Program Summary



Recipient:                Republic of Benin
Implementing Agency:      Ministry of Economy and Finance
Operation Type:           Supplemental Financing
Amount:                   SDR 14 million (US$ 22 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Grant on standard IDA terms.

Main Policy Areas:        As in PRSC-6, to support implementation of the Government's
                          reform agenda in the following areas: (i) improving the
                          regulatory framework and policy environment for private
                          investment, including support for completion of cotton sector
                          and infrastructure reforms; (ii) pursuing progress towards the
                          MDGs by improving access to quality basic services and
                          ensuring greater efficiency of public expenditures on human
                          capital formation; and (iii) promoting better governance, notably
                          through public financial management reforms.
                                                                                    2010
Key Outcome Indicators:   · Private sector investment share in GDP                  15.8%
                          · Access to electricity                                     30%
                          · Cotton production Kg/Ha                                  1,311
                          · Access to safe water for rural population                 53%
                          · Visit rate to health centers by children under 5          85%
                          · Visit rate to health centers by pregnant women            88%
                          · Primary education completion rate (girls)           67% (56%)
                          · Payment delay for public expenditures                 <24 days
                          · Public contract bidding process time                  5 months

Program Development       The PRSC series is an integral part of the Bank Group's Country
Objectives and            Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2009-2012. The proposed
Contribution to CAS:      Supplemental Financing builds on the foundation of progress
                          achieved during the previous PRSCs and to date with PRSC-6.
                          The overall objective is to support implementation of Benin's
                          poverty reduction strategy. Specifically, it supports: (i)
                          modernizing the regulatory framework and policy environment
                          for private investment and infrastructure; (ii) increasing progress
                          toward the MDGs by raising the quality, efficiency and access
                          for basic social services; and (iii) promoting better governance
                          through public financial management reforms.

                                          iii
Risks and Risk Mitigation:   The risks facing this operation primarily include: (i) the risk of
                             further external shocks, including future flood incidents; and (ii)
                             political risk in light of upcoming elections. These risks are
                             mitigated by concurrent Bank and donor partner investments in
                             providing medium term support to Benin to prevent and mitigate
                             the impact of future flood-related damage. In addition close
                             Bank/Fund and donor coordination and collaboration around
                             policy dialogue, together with close cooperation in planning and
                             implementing flood relief measures will limit political risk.

Operation ID:                P125114




                                             iv
                                    REPUBLIC OF BENIN

              SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING FOR THE SIXTH POVERTY
                       REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT


                                        1. BACKGROUND

1.1.       Several countries in Central and West Africa experienced devastating floods over the
course of the 2010 rainy season. Nearly 2 million people were affected and 377 deaths were
recorded. The floods led to significant losses in terms of economic and social infrastructure,
such as roads, schools and health clinics, serious losses in housing, and large agricultural losses,
both to crops and livestock. Benin was the country most severely affected by floods in West
Africa.

1.2.       Torrential rainfall combined with record-high water levels on all the major rivers in
Benin (Niger, Ouémé, Couffo and Mono) caused severe flooding throughout the country over
late September, throughout October and into November, with flood waters remaining in some
areas into 2011. For example, whereas 136 mm of rain fell from January to September 2009,
128 mm was recorded on one day in September 2010 and the September monthly total was
344mm. Damage to dwellings, livestock, crops, and social and economic infrastructure was
extensive. In addition to immediate relief operations provided by several UN and international
agencies, including civil society groups, extensive reconstruction efforts will need to follow in
the medium and long term.

1.3.      The President of the Republic of Benin sent a formal request for Bank assistance on
September 30, 2010. During the Annual meetings on October 10, the Minister of State for
Planning and the Minister of Finance met with the Vice-President for the Africa Region and the
Country Director, and reiterated the request for Bank assistance.

1.4.        In response, a multi-sectoral mission was immediately dispatched to Benin. The
program included meetings with the National Crisis Committee, including the Minister of the
Interior and the Minister of Decentralization. The mission was closely coordinated with the UN
system and met with NGOs involved in relief efforts. Site visits included affected areas of
Cotonou (by boat) and a helicopter fly-over of the southern third of the country. The Global
Fund for Disaster Risk Management (GFDRR) provided $150,000 for a Post-Disaster Needs
Assessment (PDNA). While many PDNAs have been exhaustive and time-consuming,
determining inventories of needs in all sectors, Benins PDNA focused on a limited number of
key sectors where the Bank had a clear comparative advantage. In addition, the PDNA included
an analysis of cross-sectoral issues which highlighted other strategic areas for intervention.
Specifically, the PDNA mission: (i) provided an assessment of damage and losses; (ii) created an
inventory of requirements in agriculture and urban water/sanitation sectors; (iii) defined needed
complementary studies; and (iv) identified priority areas of intervention for the Government and
donor community.




                                                 1
Figure 1: Affected Areas




           2
                                2. THE IMPACT OF THE CRISIS

2.1.       Flooding is a recurrent phenomenon in Benin, but in 2010 the high rainfall and the
exceptionally high water levels experienced almost simultaneously on the four major rivers in
the country resulted in widespread inundation in 55 of 77 communes. According to a report
from the Water Department (Direction Générale de l'Eau), the water level recorded in August
on the Ouémé was the highest since 1951, which places the current situation as a 50 year event.

2.2.       It is difficult to have completely accurate information on the damage, since many
rural communities remained inaccessible for extended periods. Data released by the Crisis
Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion des Crises), reproduced in UNOCHA SitReps and
validated and amended by the PDNA indicates:

            680,000 people affected
            46 deaths
            150,000 homeless
            55,575 houses destroyed
            455 destroyed/flooded schools
            92 health centers flooded/inaccessible
            201,600 hectares of crops ruined
            81,000 head of livestock dead

2.3.       The PDNA undertaken by the Bank/UNDP in collaboration with other partners,
including various UN institutions, was not a fully comprehensive PDNA. As such, it was not in
a position to provide precise and comprehensive estimates of total flood damages and losses
across all sectors and all affected regions. However, in southern Benin the Bank mission
observed how the water had partially or totally submerged thousands of homes and public
buildings, as well as extensive sections of roads and vast portions of agr icultural fields. Many
families continued to live in their dwellings despite high water levels, some preferring the attics
of their homes, and others sleeping in boats. It is estimated that a significant part of the affected
population was hosted by other families or in public buildings. The school year was just
beginning when the flooding started, but schools became full of displaced families and this
delayed the start of the school year. As of mid-January some schools had yet to reopen.

2.4.       Accounts from relief teams who returned from the center and the north of the country
indicated that the same situation was present there, as documented by extensive photo and film
material. There was a high threat of diffusion of water-borne diseases among the displaced
population and approximately 1,000 cases of cholera were reported. This situation was
exacerbated by the contamination resulting from inundated latrines (there is no sewage treatment
in Cotonou), the contents of which ended up in the flooded streets.

2.5.       Total damages and losses estimated in the PDNA exercise totaled over CFAF 100
billion (US$ 200 million), with some CFAF 18 billion of the losses and damages being in


                                                 3
agriculture, nearly CFAF 15 billion in housing, and over CFAF 33 billion to other infrastructure.
As a result, the IMF, in consultation with the Bank, has revised downward its estimate of 2010
GDP growth from 2.8 percent to 2.5 percent.

2.6.        With the losses incurred in agriculture and to rural livelihoods, food insecurity could
potentially become a major issue in the coming months. In this sense, the flooding could not
have come at a worse time, since the harvest period was only weeks away. The food reserves
from the Governments food security stocks (ONASA) are meant for the dry period (January to
June), but will soon be drawn down at the expense of potential future needs. Furthermore,
approximately 12,000 mt of food stocks were lost due to flooded storage facilities. Usage of
food stocks in response to flood needs and replacement of lost stocks will require the restocking
of national food stocks largely via imports.

2.7.        As the floodwaters receded, the emergence of increased rates of infectious diseases,
particularly cholera and malaria became a concern. The flooding cut many communities off
from health centers, creating a situation that lent itself to a potential outbreak of water-borne
disease. An early government and interagency assessment found that 92 health centers across
the country were flooded; in many areas clinics were totally inaccessible because of floodwater.
Those health centers that remained on dry ground became inhabited by people whose homes had
crumbled in the floods and this further compromised the delivery of health services. As a result,
health centers that should have been available to help people suffering from diarrhea and
infections linked to the water and sanitation situation were unable to properly function.

2.8.         The greatest needs for flooded communities were water purification tablets, mosquito
nets, malaria medicine and antibiotics. Malaria was a considerable concern, given the
pervasiveness of standing water throughout the territory. Cholera was present even before the
worst of the flooding, with the Cotonou area experiencing over half of the reported cases and
seven deaths. In addition, diarrheal infections, acute respiratory problems and skin infections
were widely experienced. It is difficult to put a monetary value on the economic impact of this
resultant health crisis on the income of affected households, but it should be considered
significant.

2.9.        On the macro and fiscal front, IDA, together with the IMF, has assessed the
macro/budgetary impact and the implications of the flooding on the 2010 and 2011 budget. As
noted, preliminary estimates indicate an economic loss in excess of US$36 million from lost
agricultural production alone. The Government has announced that unanticipated budget
commitments as a result of the flood will total CFAF5 billion (US$10 million) in 2010.
Unanticipated expenditures for 2011 are more difficult to estimate, but will undoubtedly exceed
that figure significantly. However, given the difficult fiscal environment, the Government has
not committed to an additional expenditure amount directly related to the floods for 2011 and has
instead adopted an approach of requesting donor assistance to help fund any additional
expenditure. The Government has passed a conservative 2011 budget in-line with their agreed
IMF program and it does not reflect additional flood related expenditures. As such, the impact
on the Governments budget will depend to a considerable extent on the scale of the donor and
partner response.




                                                4
                   3. THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS

3.1.        The Government of Benin addressed the flood crisis at the highest political level. In a
letter to President Zoellick dated September 30, 2010, the President of the Republic, Dr. Boni
Yayi, requested the support of the World Bank to help the affected population. This request was
reiterated at the Annual Meetings in Washington by the Benin Delegation headed by Minister of
State, Pascal Koupaki and the Minister of Finance, Idriss Daouda.

3.2.        On October 1 the Government declared Benin "pays sinistré" (a disaster-striken
country) and appealed for aid from the international community. The Governments Crisis
Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion de Crises, CGC) is chaired at the political level by the
Minister of Interior and at the technical level by the Director of the Civil Protection Department.
The UNDP acts as Secretariat for the CGC, and coordinates the network of UN agencies and
NGOs engaged in the relief operation. The technical aspects of the rescue/relief efforts appear to
have been effectively delegated to the UN system. The NGO Caritas was in the lead role in
terms of field distribution and coordination.

3.3.       Overall, there was good collaboration between the various players, but the
unexpected magnitude of the crisis was such that in the first weeks the resources deployed for the
response were not in line with the rapidly emerging needs. After some delay however, the
system reacted more vigorously and swiftly and the humanitarian situation was brought
relatively under control. The Government itself has little capacity to effectively and
comprehensively respond to the scale of needs and has, to a considerable degree, been obliged to
rely upon international NGOs and the donor community.

3.4.       Nonetheless, the UNDP, in a meeting with Bank and IMF officials in mid-January
2011, described the Government response a being well-managed, well-coordinated with the UN
system and involved NGOs and transparent in their engagements with the international
community and affected communities. The Government apparently reacted quickly in making
stocks of medicines, food and other supplies available to those affected by openi ng up their
stores. This led to lower losses than initially anticipated.

3.5.      In terms of the impact of the crisis on the Governments 2010 budget, the
Government has announced additional spending requirements in the amount of CFAF 5 billion
(US$ 10 million). These expenditures are broken down as follows: support to health centers ­
CFAF 1.2 billion; rehabilitation of schools ­ CFAF 800 million; provision of cereals and seeds ­
CFAF 800 million; direct assistance to those most affected ­ CFAF 700 million; assistance to
farming families that lost crops and livestock ­ CFAF 500 million; rehabilitation of local
community access roads ­ CFAF 500 million; humanitarian aid ­ CFAF 450 million; and, other
needs CFAF 50 million.

3.6.       The estimates for 2010 noted above represent immediate and urgent expenditure
requirements required on the part of the Government. Medium and longer term rehabilitation,
reconstruction and related necessary social expenditures will continue into 2011 in amounts
probably well in excess of those noted for 2010. However, as noted the Government will largely
rely on donor responses to meet 2011 needs.



                                                5
International Humanitarian Response
3.7.       The UN launched an international humanitarian appeal in the amount of US$
46,847,399. The appeal noted that an estimated 1 million people in Benin were already food
insecure and more than one-third of children under five were chronically malnourished before
the flooding. In addition to food, immediate needs noted included clean drinking water, hygiene
promotion and adequate shelter. Mosquito nets were also urgently needed to curb the spread of
malaria. The Emergency Humanitarian Action Plan targeted 250,000 people with food
assistance and agricultural support and 680,000 people with health care and improved access to
safe water, sanitation and hygiene. The Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), a tool
created by the United Nations to pre-position funding for humanitarian action, approved US$
4,390,369 to kick start the emergency response.

3.8.        The response to the UN appeal resulted in officially US$ 6.9 million being raised for
direct use by the UN and its partners in the appeal. However, some donors provided direct in in-
kind assistance related to the appeal and the UNDP estimates that the appeal reached 25% or
approximately US$ 11 million. The appeal was subsequently revised down to US$ 21 million
and now covers the recovery phase. The following presents a sample, though far from
exhaustive, of some of the interventions.

3.9.        The Benin Red Cross, with support from the IFRC (US$ 200,000) distributed shelter
and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) kits. UNICEF supported therapeutic feeding at
hospitals and therapeutic centers in several communes. It also established WASH programs and
provided water purification tablets and hygiene material to 150,000 people. UNHCR delivered
two DC10 airlifts of 3,000 family tents from Copenhagen. Some 100 tents were already
available in the country and the UNHCR, in collaboration with its partners on the ground,
distributed these tents in the Departments of Alibori, Borgou, Colline, Mono and Zou.

3.10.      The World Food Programs (WFP) goal was to reach 385,000 people and 13,000 host
families with food aid over a two- month period. Very early in the effort distributions had
already reached 200,000 people, including 27,000 children, and these had received food baskets
consisting of corn, oil, salt, and beans. Children also received a supplementary ration of milk
and a ready-to-eat high protein peanut paste.

3.11.       CARE worked in the communes of Aguégué, Dangbo, Adjohoun, Bonou, Ouinhi and
Zangnanado, where they already had a strong presence, with efforts focused on reducing the risk
of waterborne diseases and minimizing the impact of a potential cholera outbreak. CARE also
distributed food, water purification tablets, soap, and mosquito nets. CARE and Caritas also
distributed food to approximately 2,450 people living with host families in Zangnanado, one of
the worst affected areas of the country.

3.12.       To support the Ministry of Health, the World Health Organization (WHO) provided
health kits for treating 1,000 cholera cases over a period of three months and Doctors without
Borders (Médicines Sans Frontières) provided logistical support for the treatment of cholera
cases in Cotonou.




                                               6
                                4. BANK'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY

4.1.        The Bank responded quickly to Benins request for assistance. As noted above, an
initial assessment was undertaken to confirm the general scale of the disaster and a PDNA was
completed to obtain more detail and better define the exact needs and financial implications. The
Bank worked in close cooperation with the broader donor community and the Government.

4.2.        In addition to this proposed Supplemental Financing in the amount of $22 million
equivalent, the Bank is also restructuring or refocusing several ongoing and planned investment
projects in response to the floods. In particular, given the likelihood of a food crisis, additional
GFRP resources will be channeled through the new Agricultural Diversification operation under
preparation by AFTAR, which could be used to target food security issues (planned Board date:
Q3 FY11; lending volume US$15 million). Urban environment problems exposed by the current
flooding (drainage, water treatment, solid waste management) will be addressed by scaling up
the new AFTEN operation by an additional US$ 20 million (planned Board date: Q3 FY11;
lending volume: US$50 million), which may also need to be further tailored to meet current
demands. Schools, inundated or occupied by displaced people, may be repaired or rebuilt using
resources from the ongoing education project, although the execution of this project has been
slow to date. Other modifications to ongoing or planned projects may also be considered and
will be further determined following a better understanding of the situation and the potential
areas for Bank engagement, particularly those rehabilitation and reconstruction needs that will
extend more into the medium-term.

4.3.        As such, this proposed Supplemental Financing is complementary to several
investment projects that will directly address specific needs in several sectors, including
agriculture, urban infrastructure and education. These additional investments will address
medium term needs to repair damaged infrastructure, address ongoing and medium term food
needs of affected populations and assist in disaster preparedness and mitigation through not only
assisting the authorities in their own efforts, but by significantly physically improving some of
the hardest hit urban environments so that the impact of future occurrences in these locales are
mitigated and minimized. Together these various operations constitute a coordinated and
coherent package of support to Benin.

4.4.        The Supplemental Financing proposed here will provide direct budget support to the
Government of Benin in order to augment their resources as a result of the increased budgetary
demands arising from the flood disaster. 1 Given that the Government is ultimately responsible
for financing and coordinating an appropriate and effective response to the unanticipated needs
of its population, budget support is seen as complementary to the other Bank investments and is
preferable to a stand-alone operation operating outside of Government channels or independent
of the Governments budget. Nonetheless, coordination with international relief efforts and the
other Bank interventions will be of paramount importance.



1
  This Supplemental Financing, of course, will not finance pre-identified expenditures directly as would an
investment lending operation. It will provide general financing for the Recipients budget, to be used according to
its budgetary processes and priorities.


                                                         7
4.5.        The Supplemental Financing will allow the Government to flexibly allocate resources
for remaining relief efforts where the donor response has not been fully adequate, but more
importantly, this will provide resources for the subsequent recovery and rehabilitation phase.
Needs in this regard are disbursed across several ministries, including most notably, agriculture,
transport, education and health. While the Government is counting primarily on a donor
response to assist with these recovery and rehabilitation efforts, several ministries will
nonetheless, be required to fund much of this effort from internal resources. Again, t his resource
allocation will have to be undertaken in close coordination and collaboration with ongoing
efforts and resources provided by the UN System, NGOs and international donors.

4.6.        To facilitate quick disbursement and remain compliant with BP/OP 8.60 no additional
conditionality has been considered for the use of these resources. However, the Government is
expected to consult with the relevant players on the priority allocations, and to report in a prompt
and transparent manner on the decisions taken on this matter and on the results achieved. The
integral role of the donor community, including the Bank, and the close relationship with the
authorities and sectoral ministries through sectoral working groups, including those sectors noted
above where recovery and rehabilitation efforts will be focused, will facilitate an effective
dialogue between the Government and the donor community in the planning, monitoring and
tracking of these resources. Ex-post assessment of the use of funds provided by this
Supplemental Financing will be undertaken to measure the extent to which the funds supported
and leveraged relief, recovery and rehabilitation efforts.


     5. THE REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED THROUGH THE SIXTH POVERTY
                  REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT: AN UPDATE

                A. E CONOMIC P ERFORMANCE SINCE THE A PPROVAL OF PRSC6
5.1.        The impact of the floods comes on the heels of other recent significant negative
economic shocks. After several recent years of steadily improving GDP growth (rising from 2.9
percent in 2005 to 5.0 percent in 2008) growth slowed to 2.7 percent in 2009. Economic growth
projections for 2010 were revised down to 2.8 percent, from 3.0 percent at the time of PRSC-6
approval, and have been revised further to 2.5 percent following full consideration of the impact
of the floods. The weaker performance in 2009 and 2010, excluding the flood impact, is largely
the result of: weaker global demand for exports, particularly in 2009; a decrease in re-export
trade, primarily to Nigeria; lower foreign direct investment; lower public investment; a domestic
financial scandal; and, lower cotton production. The global economic crisis has unambiguously
resulted in a significant economic slowdown and a widening of the fiscal and current account
deficits. As such, recent economic developments in Benin over the past two years, as elsewhere,
are largely a result of the impact of a series of crises and resultant responses.

5.2.        The economy remains heavily dependent on cotton and transit/re-export trade, both of
which suffer from serious vulnerabilities. Cotton is Benins largest single official export,
representing typically 25 ­ 40 percent of annual exports. Regional re-export and transit trade is
the other mainstay of the economy (much of it informal), accounting for 20 percent of GDP and
25 percent of government revenues. The recent global economic crisis highlighted Benins
vulnerability in this regard, as trade through Benin destined for and coming from neighboring


                                                 8
countries slowed. This is estimated to have reduced GDP growth in Benin by approximately 2
percentage points and significantly affected fiscal revenues. The Nigerian response to the food,
fuel and global economic crises in 2008/09 had the greatest effect, as transit/re-export trade in
Benin is largely based on arbitrage opportunities between Benin and Nigeria. Reduction in
tariffs and the removal of quotas and bans on certain imported goods in Nigeria reduced th ese
arbitrage opportunities and affected transit and re-export trade.

5.3.       The failure to rebound more strongly in 2010 as expected at the time of PRSC-6
approval is due to the prolonged weakness in global markets and the necessary withdrawal of the
fiscal stimulus in order to address mounting revenue and budgetary pressures. This recent
deceleration of growth, largely due to difficulties in the cotton and re-export sectors, highlights
the urgency of deepening reforms to diversify the economy and expand the productive base ,
something the floods may have made more difficult given the impact on rural infrastructure and
livelihoods.

5.4.        Furthermore, Benin suffered from a Ponzi scheme scandal which rocked the
microfinance sector in mid-2010 and resulted in the loss of some CFAF 160 billion (US$320
million) by approximately 150,000 depositors. This represents an average loss of some
US$2,000 equivalent per depositor. Despite the scale of the fraud, the crisis was relatively well-
contained. The broader banking system does not appear to be affected and the traditional
microfinance institutions also seem to have suffered little adverse impact. The effect of the cri sis
on households, individuals, firms and their consumption, savings and investment decisions are
presently difficult to assess. The resultant direct drop in savings suffered by the losses incurred
may affect consumption and investment and may at least partially explain reduced domestic
demand, but the impact remains difficult to quantify. The Government is adamant that public
funds will not be used to reimburse depositors, though remaining assets in the subject institutions
are minimal and recovery rates per dollar of deposits will be very low. The Government would
like to ensure the protection of poorer depositors to the extent possible, providing them with
preferential access to any recovered and remaining assets. As of mid-January 2010, CFAF 6
billion had been reimbursed to 62,000 of the smallest depositors.




                                                 9
                              Table 1: Key Economic Indicators, 2007-2013

                                                      ----------Actual-----------------Projections------------
                                                 2007       2008     2009      2010      2011      2012      2013
Population growth (%)                              3.2        3.2      3.2        3.2       3.2      3.2        3.2
Real GDP Growth (%)                                4.6        5.0      2.7        2.5       3.4      4.3        4.8
Real GDP per capita growth (%)                     1.4        1.8     -0.5       -0.7       0.2      1.1        1.6
Inflation (CPI, average, %)                        1.3        8.0      2.2        2.1       2.8      2.8        2.8
Gross investment (% of GDP)                       21.4       20.0     23.3       18.7     20.3      20.2       21.1
Gross private investment (% of GDP)               13.0       14.2     13.6       13.3     13.6      14.1       14.9
Gross domestic savings (% of GDP)                  5.0        6.7     10.0        7.1       9.4      9.6       10.8
Revenue (% of GDP)                                20.6       19.4     18.4       18.4     18.7      19.1       19.6
Expenditures and net lending (% of GDP)           23.4       22.9     25.8       21.4     23.0      22.8       22.6
Wage bill (% of GDP)                               5.4        6.1      7.2        7.3       7.8      7.5        7.4
Overall fiscal balance (% of GDP)                 -2.8       -3.5     -7.4       -3.0      -4.3     -3.7       -3.1
Overall balance of payments (% of GDP)             3.2        1.6     -1.6       -0.5      -0.2     -0.5       -0.1
Current account (excl. grants, % of GDP)         -10.8       -9.0    -11.1       -7.9      -7.2     -7.0       -6.8
Export growth (US$ terms, %)                      36.7       20.0     20.3        4.3       3.9      3.0        6.7
Share of cotton exports (% of exports)            27.4       27.2     19.1       22.2     24.3      24.8       23.4
External Debt to GDP (%)                          11.7       16.7     16.3       19.4     18.8      18.4       18.1
Debt to service export ratio (%)                   9.6        3.2      4.1        5.1       6.2      5.7        5.4

Source: Beninese authorities, IMF and Bank staff estimates and projections.

5.5.        Given this series of shocks, and after many years of maintaining positive basic
primary fiscal balances, the fiscal position turned negative in 2009. The overall fiscal deficit,
excluding grants, was -2.8 percent of GDP in 2007, -3.5 percent in 2008, -7.4 percent in 2009
and -3.0 percent in 2010. In 2009 the authorities responded to the global economic crisis by
implementing a strong fiscal stimulus in the first half of 2009, which needed to be reversed in the
second half owing to a lack of financing. The stimulus resulted in a large increase in public
expenditure, even as revenue declined under weak economic conditions. Despite a partial
reversal in the second half of the year, fiscal policy was looser in 2009 than 2008 and the deficit
widened. Total revenue declined by 1 percentage point of GDP, as the deceleration in import
growth and an increase in exemptions led to a 7 percent nominal decline in customs receipts.
Large bonuses to civil servants expanded the wage bill by 24 percent in nominal terms.
Domestic capital spending doubled in nominal terms from 2008 to 2009 as a result of the surge
in investment in the first half of the year, including the carryover of 3.8 percent of GDP in
unfunded expenditures from 2008. As a result, the overall fiscal deficit more than doubled to 7.4
percent in 2009. This fiscal stimulus produced strains on the Treasury, which were addressed in
the second half of the year by strengthening tax collection, freezing expenditure commitments
and new bonuses to civil servants, and enforcing more rigorous controls on expenditu re
execution. About two-thirds of the deficit was financed from external grants and concessional
loans. Additional financing was mobilized on the regional market and through one-off measures,
and about 1.6 percent of GDP in expenditure commitments was carried over to 2010.

5.6.       Shortly after approval of the PRSC-6 in April 2010, the Government agreed to a
three-year Extended Credit Facility (ECF) arrangement with the IMF, which was approved by
the IMF Board in June 2010. While the Government remains committed to the program, they
have missed a quantitative performance criterion (net domestic financing) and have had to
reduce program ambition on several indicative targets going forward. The difficulties in meeting
Fund targets arose as government revenues significantly under-performed program targets over


                                                  10
the first half of 2010 and did not rebound sufficiently in the second half of the year to meet end-
year targets. In response to the lower than expected revenues, the Government reduced
spending, both recurrent expenditures and investment. This reduction in spending, while
representing a significant effort on the part of government, did not fully offset the fall in
revenues and as a result the performance criterion on net domestic financing for end-June was
missed. The target for the basic primary balance however was met. Given the lower than
expected revenues, the Budget Directorate, in consultation with sectoral ministries, has identified
priority line items that can be tracked and monitored quarterly over 2011 in order to protect
priority expenditures. These include priority items in the areas of health, water, environment,
infrastructure, agriculture, justice and primary education. Expenditures on these identified
priority line items will be monitored by the Government, but also by the IMF and the Bank, in
order to ensure that corrective actions are taken should they be subject to further expenditure
reductions.

5.7.        The latest update of the joint Bank-Fund debt sustainability analysis (DSA ­ May
2010) confirms that Benin faces a moderate risk of debt distress. The analysis highlights the
need to address fiscal slippages in 2009 and 2010 and to put the fiscal situation back on a
sustainable path over the medium term. HIPC and MDRI debt relief helped reduce Benins debt
stock from 47 percent of GDP at end-2002 to 19.4 percent at end-2010. The implementation of
structural reforms will also assist in enhancing growth, expanding exports, attracting foreign
direct investment and thereby improving the longer term debt dynamics. The Government is
committed to covering its financial needs primarily with grants and highly concessional external
assistance, with only limited use of regional borrowing as a last source of financing. The DSA
indicated that given the large margin to the debt sustainability thresholds, a limited amount of
non-concessional borrowing could be accommodated without risking a marked change in the
overall debt risk profile.

5.8.       In sum, Benin has an on-track program with the IMF and the macroeconomic policy
framework provides an adequate basis for the purposes of this proposed operation . The IMF
relations note is attached as Annex 1. The macro framework however, is not without risk. The
IMF program, despite being adjusted to reflect current weakness in the global economy and the
recent floods, remains rather ambitious and will require a concerted effort on the part of the
Government to meet revenue targets and proceed with planned structural reforms.

                    B. R EFORM P ROGRESS S INCE THE A PPROVAL OF PRSC6
5.9.       All prior actions included in PRSC-6 had been met prior to Board approval and there
were no triggers included in PRSC-6 since it represented the last operation in the PRSC 4-6
series. The next series, PRSCs 7-9, is currently being prepared. The Government is
implementing a number of actions under consideration as prior actions for the next operation and
is also advancing on some of the proposed triggers being considered for subsequent operations.
As such, there is an active, ongoing and relatively effective policy dialogue process between the
Bank and the authorities.

5.10.       Fiscal consolidation remains on-track, though now under stress from the flood
disaster, and is intended to create the fiscal space necessary to increase priority spending while
reducing budget deficits. Measures are being implemented to improve the mobilization of
domestic revenues while more rigorously managing public expenditure. This is to be


                                                11
accomplished through efforts to expand the tax base, strengthen tax and customs administrations,
and combat fraud, including more specifically: tax and customs administration reform,
computerization of tax services, implementation of the "guichet unique", strengthening control
measures, and limiting exemptions. Expenditures will be targeted to support growth and poverty
reduction, as recommended in the recently completed public expenditure review (PER), and are
forecast to average 22.8 percent of GDP during the 2011-2013 period. This will take place in the
context of plans to improve public financial management, enhance capacity to absorb resources,
and improve the quality of expenditure, with a focus on improving control of recurrent
expenditures, particularly the wage bill, and a greater focus on priority spending. Furthermore,
civil service reform is proceeding with the current review of the civil service remuneration policy
and a stock taking of current civil service reform efforts being important steps toward the
development of an overall strategy for reform of the civil service.

5.11.       While macroeconomic management has been broadly commendable, despite
understandable setbacks the past two years, progress on necessary structural reforms ha s been
more mixed. Significant progress has been made in several areas, including, cotton reform, with
the privatization of SONAPRA and implementation of a new sectoral reform strategy, along with
the sale of several public companies, such as the cement company and the wood company.
Nonetheless, delays have been noted in other important reform areas, notably, public sector
reform and reforms related to the port.

5.12.      Nonetheless, momentum for reform has been strengthening over the past few months,
namely: (i) a financial audit of SBEE and a restructuring plan for the national electricity
company; (ii) extension and utilization of the individual tax payer identification system; (iii)
signing of a contract and implementation of the "guichet unique" at the port; and (iv) withdrawal
of Government ownership in Continental Bank and SCO, as well as the privatization of Benin
Telecom.

5.13.       While Benin has technically fully implemented the PRSC-6 and met all of the
conditions related thereto, significantly lower than expected growth (resulting from the various
factors noted earlier, including the floods), the need to reduce public expenditures in response to
lower revenues and the slow pace on several fundamental reforms have resulted in PRSC targets
and monitoring indicators not being fully met. Early in the PRSC series performance toward the
established indicators appeared fully satisfactory and substantial progress had been made.
However, the serious slowdown in growth in 2009, the continued weakness in 2010, and the
sharp cuts in public expenditures over the past two years have not been without consequence on
the monitored indicators. As can be noted in Annex 2, earlier progress on several indicators has
been reversed and while several will be or have already been attained, others are unlikely to be
met and still others remain uncertain.

5.14.       On the positive side, PRSC-6 indicators related to access to electricity and access to
safe water have been met and indeed surpassed. Indicators concerning public financial
management have also been achieved, but have deteriorated somewhat over the past year due to
the difficulties encountered in managing and executing the budget under serious resource
constraints, though they remain above target. Education indicators are mixed and remain
achievable despite the public resource constraints encountered. Health indicators, despite
significant early improvement, have slipped and remain considerably below objectives. While


                                                12
again being directly affected by public resource constraints, performance in the health sector has
also been impacted by health worker strikes and work stoppages related to the Governments
wage and austerity measures. In terms of economic indicators, private investment and cotton
production figures show a similar pattern ­ early progress and more recent deterioration. These
economic indicators are largely the result of broader global and regional economic conditions,
but also reflect to a certain extent reduced Government expenditure and investment levels.

5.15.       The floods have now resulted in additional strains on an already difficult fiscal
position. Without external financing to cover a significant portion of the flood related financial
demands, the fiscal position will deteriorate further putting in jeopardy not only the IDA-
supported program under the PRSC-6 and achievement of its associated performance indicators,
but the Fund program as well. Performance indicators under the PRSC-6 would clearly be at risk
of deterioration in the absence of a rapid and comprehensive response. In education and health,
damage to schools and health centers was extensive. Repair and rehabilitation of these facilities
will be required if performance indicators in these sectors are to improve. While the short-term
effect of the floods will in all probability be negative on several indicators, a financial response
from the Bank would limit under-performance in the medium term and more importantly, would
reduce longer term negative impacts that might be exacerbated by a prolonged crisis and thus
require a longer and more costly effort to turn around. Indeed, an appropriate Government
response to the disaster, financially and technically supported by donors and the Bank, could
provide the impetus and momentum to reverse previous negative trends caused by slow growth
and the required reduction in Government expenditure and investment.

                           C. P OVERTY AND S OCIAL I MPACT A NALYSIS
5.16.       PRSC-6 was expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty
reduction. In Pillar I, components were designed to improve competitiveness and agricultural
productivity, thus helping to promote investment, growth and the rural economy. The
Government's 2006 annual report on the social situation (Rapport sur le Profil Social National)
put emphasis on the strong link between unemployment, underemployment and poverty. Thus,
support for accelerating economic growth and private investment, including through an improved
business environment and infrastructure, would support employment creation and poverty
reduction. Reform and simplification of the tax regime is aimed at promoting such
improvements in the business climate. The PRSC program also supports measures to enhance
the financial viability and management of the electricity sector to increase access.

5.17.      In addition, the program promotes better functioning of the cotton sector, and results
from the 2002 household survey show that households deriving income from cotton are
overwhelmingly rural and poor. A 2004 PSIA analysis of planned reforms in the cotton sector in
Benin (Report No. 29951-BJ) confirms the social value of pursuing the agenda foreseen,
including the privatization of SONAPRA. This analysis was used to support the design of
actions in the cotton sector, including activities to stabilize incomes for cotton farmers when
world prices or exchange rates are unfavorable. Household survey results will be examined in
the ongoing poverty assessment and PSIA-related issues in the agriculture sector will be revisited
in an upcoming study on agricultural growth and diversification.

5.18.      Components of Pillar II are clearly aimed at improving access and quality of services
delivered to the poor. The new poverty assessment and recent PER will allow for more refined


                                                13
analysis of the impact of social service spending. Finally in Pillar III, the strengthening of public
sector management is expected to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of publi c resources in
the delivery of development services. It should be noted that equitable development is an
explicit objective of the SCRP, and the PRSC-6 supports it through components emphasizing
access to basic services at the decentralized level.

5.19.      To the extent that this Supplemental Financing helps ensure the achievement and
maintenance of original PRSC-6 objectives, it will have a positive impact on poverty reduction.
Furthermore, to the extent that this Supplemental Financing assists the Government in financing
required humanitarian assistance and recovery assistance to flood-affected populations and
households, the poverty impact could be substantial. The loss of productive assets suffered by
individual households, the loss of enabling infrastructure and the need for individual investment
in replacing homes, small businesses and other possessions will have a potentially profound
impact on poverty levels -- not only presently, but in the medium and longer term as well.
Immediate assistance to re-equip affected populations for meaningful employment and income
generation will be key in reducing the negative poverty implications arising from the floods.

                                    D. E NVIRONMENTAL I SSUES
5.20.       There are no environmental issues related to implementation of the PRSC -6 and
policies supported by the proposed Supplemental Financing are not expected to have any
significant negative effects on the environment, natural resources, or forests.


             6. RATIONALE FOR PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

6.1.        The magnitude and devastation of the flood and the required response from the
Government created pressure on the government's FY10 budget and will continue to pressure the
2011 budget. The government committed an additional CFAF5 billion (US$10 million) in
expenditures in 2010 directly attributable to the floods. Additional government expenditures for
2011 have not yet been determined, but will in all likelihood be considerably higher than the
comparable figure for 2010 noted above, though the government is seeking donor funds to cover
these expenses. The government fully recognized the impact of additional expenditures on its
budget position and was hesitant in committing to additional 2010 flood-related expenditures for
fear of missing related IMF performance criteria. The IMF has provided assurance s that direct
flood-related expenditures would be considered outside of and additional to the current program.
Nonetheless, the authorities have been conservative and fiscally responsible in their response. A
financial response from the Bank would allow them to more directly meet the needs of affected
populations without fear of missing IMF program targets.

6.2.        Grants or concessionary financing from development partners to finance all, or at
least a significant portion of, the additional resource requirement is perhaps the best economic
option for the country. In this context, the World Bank is well placed to provide supplemental
budget support at this critical juncture. For its part, the Government remains committed to the
implementation of the reform program supported under the PRSC series, as is further described
below.




                                                 14
6.3.        Following a Bank mission to Benin in November, a formal damage and needs
assessment was prepared. This provided an estimate of losses and damages and will allow the
Government to better estimate the necessary Government budget response in 2011. It is clear
that the human, social, and economic impacts of the flood were sizeable and continue to impact
the economy and personal livelihoods. The negative impact on growth and employment in the
short run (of greater import in 2011 than 2010) is likely to occur as a result of: setbacks in
agricultural production; losses in fisheries and livestock assets; loss of production in the small-
scale manufacturing sector; and damage to irrigation, transport, and communication
infrastructure. Relief and reconstruction costs extending into 2011 are likely to be high.
Emergency import needs, particularly in terms of rice and other food items, and inputs for
agriculture and construction will adversely impact the BOP position.

6.4.       The proposed Supplemental Financing would help finance in full the 2010 resource
gap incurred as a result of the floods. The activities for which the emergency expenditures have
been incurred in 2010, and will continue to be incurred in 2011, though hopefully funded by
donors including this proposed operation 2, include food and shelter relief, assistance to farmers
with agricultural inputs, cash grants to the affected population, and increased O perations &
Maintenance (O&M) expenditures to repair infrastructure damage. Financing the resource gap
arising out of these emergency needs (by the proposed Supplemental Financing) will allow the
Government to continue implementation of the PRSC-6 supported macroeconomic and budget
framework. In the absence of the proposed financing, the Government would need to cut further
into its existing O&M budget, reduce planned capital spending allocations, or support to
recurrent expenditure activities would have to be significantly scaled down. Alternat ively, the
Government would have to resort to domestic or regional borrowing, which is significantly more
expensive relative to concessionary external financing, leads to recurrent interest charges within
an already constrained fiscal environment, and is discouraged by the IMF.

6.5.        As noted previously, the fiscal situation has been under stress. A combination of the
food and fuel price crises in 2008, the global economic crisis in 2008/2009, the slower than
expected global rebound in 2010, and several internal factors have negatively impacted fiscal
performance. While the Government has taken appropriate measures to respond to these stresses
and has been generally responsible in its expenditure management and control, these shocks have
led to an environment where the budget situation is rather precarious and necessary investments
and programs have been reduced to minimal levels. Investment levels in particular have been cut
to levels where the stock of public and social capital is probably deteriorating. The floods now
represent an additional exogenous shock that extends this difficult situation beyond the
Governments ability to respond to within existing resource constraints without resorting to
serious expenditure restraints that would further threaten social outcomes, and indeed social
cohesion. Additional financing is required to ensure Benins macroeconomic and poverty
reduction program, including the specific outcomes associated with the PRSC -6 program, remain
viable in the wake of the flood disaster.




2
  This Supplemental Financing, of course, will not finance pre-identified expenditures directly as would an
investment lending operation. It will provide general financing for the Recipients budget, to be used accordin g to
its budgetary processes and priorities.


                                                         15
6.6.        The proposed operation is consistent with Bank policy as reflected in OP 8.60.
According to this policy, supplemental financing may be provided for a development policy
operation for which an unanticipated gap in financing jeopardizes a reform program that is
otherwise proceeding on schedule and in compliance with the agreed-to policy agenda. More
specifically, the proposed Supplemental Financing meets the requirement for Supplemental
Financing under OP 8.60 as follows:

     (a) The program is being implemented in compliance with provisions of the Credit
Agreement. Benin is currently implementing a reform program supported by a PRSC series and
is in compliance with all covenants.

    (b) The borrower is unable to obtain sufficient funds from other lenders on reasonable terms
or in a reasonable time. Under government leadership, development partners, including UN
agencies and the Bank, are coordinating the flood relief efforts. The proposed operation would
complement financing from other external sources to help address immediate needs. Other
development partners pledged additional resources in response to the UNs humanitarian appeal,
which, along with this Supplemental Financing, would contribute to closing the financing needs
for urgent rehabilitation, social support programs, and critical reconstruction investments in the
flood affected areas, though the response to date still leaves a significant financing gap. To date
no donor has come forward with assistance aimed at addressing the Governments direct
financing needs. The proposed operation will therefore meet financing needs that are unlikely to
be met by other donors and lenders.

    (c) The time available is too short to process a further freestanding Bank credit/grant to
Benin specifically, or to mount a regional response that would address the broader regional
flooding experienced in late 2010, to which Benin would be party. The use of a Supplemental
Financing option will enable the Bank to deliver program support in a timely manner to respond
to the financial needs of the country resulting from the floods. A timely response from the Bank
will help people in the affected areas rebuild their lives. As noted, another planned budget
support operation, PRSC-7, will be presented to the Board in calendar 2011 and will address the
more medium and long term needs.

   (d) The borrower is committed to the program and the implementing agencies have
demonstrated competence in carrying it out. The Government has consistently shown
commitment to pursuing prudent macroeconomic policies over the medium and long term and
implementing needed structural reforms in line with its Poverty Reduction Strategy (SCRP).
Capacity issues have on occasion delayed implementation, but commitment remains strong and
progress is steady.


                          7. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

                         A. T ERMS OF THE S UPPLEMENTAL F INANCING
7.1.        The proposed Supplemental Financing will be on a Grant basis. There are no
additional requirements to those originally included in the PRSC-6. There will, however, be an
overall requirement that the government continue to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic
policy framework as was required under the PRSC series.


                                                16
    B. F UNDS F LOW AND A UDITING R EQUIREMENTS FOR          THE   S UPPLEMENTAL F INANCING
7.2.        The proposed operation would consist of a single tranche grant of SDR 14 million
(US$22 million equivalent) to be available upon effectiveness. The borrower is the Republic of
Benin, represented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The proposed operation would
follow IDA's disbursement procedures for development policy operations and would not be
linked to specific purchases. Once the grant becomes effective and provided the Association is
satisfied with the implementation of the original program being carried out by the Government of
Benin and with the appropriateness of the Recipients macroeconomic policy framework, the
proceeds will be deposited by IDA into a dedicated account at the Central Bank ("BCEAO")
designated by the Recipient and which forms part of the Benin's foreign exchange reserves. The
Government shall ensure that upon the deposit of the grant proceeds into said account, an
equivalent local currency amount is credited in the Government's budget management system, in
a manner acceptable to the Bank, using the prevailing exchange rate on the date that the funds
are credited to the treasury account. Based on previous experience, the execution of such
transaction from the Central Bank to the Treasury (Ministry of Economy and Finance) does not
require more than four days. The Government of Benin will report to the Bank on the amounts
deposited in the dedicated foreign currency account and credited in local currency to the budget
management system with an indication of the exchange rate applied and the date of transfer. The
borrower will promptly notify the Bank by fax or email that such transfer has taken place, and
that proceeds have been credited in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The proceeds of the grant
will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under the Agreement. If the proceeds of the
grant are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Financing Grant Agreement, IDA will
require, promptly upon notice from IDA, the Recipient to refund an amount equal to the amount
of said payment to IDA, amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
The closing date of the operation will be December 31, 2011. The dedicated deposit account
could be audited on terms of reference acceptable to IDA by the Recipients Chamber of Accounts
(Chambres des Comptes) (or such other independent auditors acceptable to the Association).

7.3.        Fiduciary concerns remain largely as they were for the original PRSC-6 operation and
the fiduciary risk management environment and the control environment at the Central Bank are
such that the fiduciary arrangements in place for the PRSC-6 will remain in effect. The latest
IMF safeguards assessment was undertaken in March 2010. The Central Bank of the West
African States (BCEAO) continues to improve its governance structure. The updated safeguards
assessment issued by the IMF in March 2010 revealed that the institution continues to have
adequate controls in place at the operational level. However, the IMF noted that the overall
governance framework should nonetheless be strengthened by the addition of an aud it committee
to ensure that the Board of Directors exercises appropriate oversight over the control structure,
including the audit mechanism and financial statements. The upcoming implementation of the
institutional reform of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) and the BCEAO should help
improve this situation. In addition, the assessment noted that efforts to fully implement
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted internationally by other central
banks should be further pursued.




                                               17
                                    8. BENEFITS AND RISKS

                                             A. B ENEFITS
8.1.       Timely program support will contribute to assisting Benin in covering immediate
needs for relief, livelihood support, and reconstruction by accessing financial assistance
necessary to mitigate the impact of the floods. The proposed Supplemental Financing will be an
important source of resources for the government, as it will provide financing at a time when
there is an urgent need for additional government expenditures. Donor response to the UN
appeal in the amount of US$ 46 million has been less than hoped for. Furthermore, pledges
typically have a longer effectiveness and implementation lag than desired and so flexible
financing of the type being proposed through this Supplemental Financing is necessary to speed
up the rehabilitation process. The proposed Supplemental Financing is quick disbursing and
would contribute to timely provision of support to affected populations. It will also complement
the support for medium and long-term rehabilitation that is being planned through restructuring
and reprogramming of ongoing operations in the Banks portfolio. Finally, the Supplemental
Financing will contribute to minimizing the risks to the overall reform program that is being
supported through the current PRSC series, and maintain the integrity of the transition to a new
PRSC series planned for implementation in 2011.

                                              B. RISKS
8.2.         Benin is inherently vulnerable to annual flooding during and following the rainy
season. The major river valleys frequently flood and the population has adapted to this
seasonality. The floods experienced in 2010 however, have seen water levels rise in the major
river valleys far in excess of normal. There is some concern that climate change may have
increased the risk of excessive flooding and that Benin has become more vulnerable to such rare
events, i.e., that such events will become less rare. While the proposed Supplemental Financing
does not address this risk, the broader Bank program in the country will have to consider the
possibility of such recurrent events. As such, the Bank will consider a multipronged approach to
assisting Benin in the long-term mitigation of flood damage and flood prevention. In addition,
other donors and specialized UN agencies will also be providing more medium term support to
further strengthen the governments capacity to respond to and mitigate future flood damage.
Related to this Supplemental Financing, the follow-on PRSC series will consider the inclusion of
measures in this area.

8.3.        The political situation presents an additional risk. The first round of the Benin
presidential elections took place on Sunday, March 13, following two postponements. The
delays were required to allow additional time for electronic voter registration and the issuance of
voter registration cards to ensure that all eligible voters will indeed be able to vote. These delays
were agreed to by Parliament, by all primary candidates and political parties and were approved
by the Constitutional Court. During the electoral and the transition period there is some risk that
expenditures could be politically motivated and will therefore be undertaken in a manner perhaps
less than optimal in responding to the emergency. This risk has been and will continue to be
mitigated by the ongoing policy dialogue process being undertaken by the Bank and the IMF.
Given the need to strengthen performance under the IMF-funded ECF program and the
implications of going off-track, there exists significant incentive to prudently manage budget
resources. Furthermore, Bank/Fund collaboration in Benin is strong, thereby increasing the


                                                 18
effectiveness of the policy dialogue process. Donor coordination is also quite strong. Also, the
mechanism established to coordinate government and donor efforts to deal with the floods will
help ensure well-targeted and coherent actions by all involved, including the Government.
Finally, the provision of this Supplemental Financing will be concurrent with the discussions
surrounding the initiation of the new PRSC 7-9 series. This engagement involving significant
future resource transfers will provide opportunities for monitoring expenditures and policy
dialogue and thus provide further incentive to appropriately manage resources associated with
the Supplemental Financing.        Finally, an appropriate communications strategy will be
implemented to ensure the provision of these additional resources to Benin is well known within
the public, the donor community and among civil society in Benin. This will help ensure some
domestic oversight and the application of domestic pressure for effective allocation and use of
these resources.

8.4.        While Benin has suffered from, adapted to and accommodated a series of external
shocks, unanticipated internal dislocations and now a natural disaster in the form of a nati on-
wide flood, it should be recognized that the economy continues to remain vulnerable to further
external shocks. Given the structure of the economy and its heavy reliance on re-export and
transit trade, the Governments reform program as envisaged under PRSC-6 remains vulnerable
to any one of a number of potential external or internal shocks. Furthermore, a lack of consensus
for reforms and a potential slowdown in the reform momentum cannot be discounted given the
current political tensions in the lead up to, and the transition following, the elections. While the
provision of this Supplemental Financing in no manner exacerbates these risks, it may reduce
them to a considerable degree by rendering the fiscal and social situation less fragile.




                                                19
                                Annex 1: IMF Relations Note

IMF Executive Board Completes First Review under ECF Arrangement with Benin and
Approves US$16.5 Million Disbursement

Press Release No. 11/49
February 16, 2011

The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today completed the first review
of Benins economic performance under a three-year Extended Credit Facility (ECF)
arrangement. The completion of the review enables the disbursement of SDR 10.61 million
(about US$16.5 million), which would bring total disbursements under the program to
SDR 21.23 million (about US$33 million).

In completing the review, the Executive Board granted a waiver for nonobservance of the
performance criterion relating to net domestic financing at end-June 2010 and approved an
extension of the arrangement by three months. The three-year ECF arrangement for Benin was
approved on June 14, 2010 (see Press Release No. 10/243) in an amount equivalent to
SDR 74.28 million (about US$115.5 million).

After the Executive Boards discussion of Benin, Mr. Naoyuki Shinohara, Deputy Managing
Director and Acting Chair, made the following statement:

"Amid unfavorable external and internal conditions, real GDP growth has been weaker than
expected and performance under the program has been mixed. Revenue collection in the first
half of 2010 fell below program targets, and the end-June performance criterion on net domestic
financing was missed. These slippages were partially addressed with corrective actions in the
second half of 2010. During the latter part of 2010, revenue collection efforts intensified, and
expenditure was contained in line with available resources. Structural reforms proceeded, but
with some delay.

"In September and October 2010, Benin was hit by the worst flooding in 50 years, which caused
a major humanitarian crisis. Preliminary estimates suggest that the floods caused considerable
damage, particularly in agriculture, and will require substantial reconstruction in 2011.

"The mixed economic performance in 2010 and the adverse shocks have led to a three-month
extension of the program and to a revision of the programs macroeconomic framework and
fiscal objectives. Real GDP growth is now projected to increase to 3.4 percent in 2011 and to
improve gradually in the medium term. Achieving the revised objectives of the program will
require a major effort to mobilize revenue and contain expenditure. The authorities intend to
protect priority social spending, while containing current expenditure in line with reduced
revenue expectations and revised deficit targets.

"A timely implementation of the structural reform agenda will be essential to achieve the
program objectives. Critical reforms include introduction of a one-stop window at the Port of
Cotonou, full adoption of single taxpayer identification numbers, reform of the civil service, and
a reform of the energy sector."




                                               20
                             Annex 2: Progress on PRSC 4-6 Monitoring Indicators


                 Indicator                      Base 2006   2007    2008    2009         2010
                                                           Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Outcome
PILLAR I: ENHANCE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND CONDITIONS FOR GROWTH
Private investment as a share of GDP                  13.6   13.0    14.2    13.6   15.8      13.3
Percentage of population having access to electricity 22.0   24.7    25.6    27.7   30.0
Cotton production (,,000 of tons)                     190    269     211     159    355       180
Kg/ha                                                 1042  1146    1166    1059    1311
PILLAR II: SERVICE DELIVERY
Access to safe water for the rural population (%)     44.0   46.5    49.9    55.1   53.0
Visit rate to health centers by children under 5 (%)  77.0   83.0    76.5    76.1   85.0
Childbirths attended by medical personnel (%)         77.0   82.0    82.0    77.7    88
Primary school completion rate (%)                    65.0   66.0    61.0    65.0   67.0
Of which girls rate (%)                               54.0   56.0    52.0    57.0   56.0
PILLAR III: GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
Average payment delay (days)                          22.9   10.1    15.6    19.5   <24
Public contract bidding time (months)                  11    7.6     2.0      3      <5




                                                     21
                                                        Annex 3: Country at a Glance

Benin at a glance                                                                                                                                                    2/25/10

                                                                                       Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                                          Saharan          Low
                                                                        Benin         Africa      income
(2008)

Population, mid-year (millions)                                            8.7           818         973            75-79
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                            113         24,242      19,310            60-64
Population growth (%)                                                      3.2            2.5         2.1
Urban population (% of total population)                                   41             36          29            45-49

                                                                                                                    30-34
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                           6.0            885         510
                                                                                                                    15-19
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                        700           1,082         524
GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                                   1,460           1,991       1,407                0-4

                                                                                                                               10             5           0            5          10
GDP growth (%)                                                             5.1            5.0         6.4                                 percent of total population
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                  1.8            2.5         4.2

(most recent estimate, 2003­2008)

Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, %)                             47            51            ..
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                             75            73            ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                            62            52           59
                                                                                                                    200
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                    78            89           78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                   ..           27           28
                                                                                                                    150

Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                              53             71           72
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)                            28             54           55           100

Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                           105            103          102
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)                          87             93           95            50


                                                                                                                         0
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                        65            58           67
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                  30            31           38                              1990        1995       2000     2007


                                                                                                                                     Benin            Sub-Saharan Africa


Net Aid Flows                                                1980        1990           2000        2008     a



(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                        88        267            241          470
Top 3 donors (in 2007):
  European Commission                                           14          44             3           81           8
  France                                                        17          67            74           56
                                                                                                                    6
  Denmark                                                        2           0            20           45
                                                                                                                    4
Aid (% of GNI)                                                 6.3        14.8           10.7         8.7
                                                                                                                    2
Aid per capita (US$)                                           25          56             36          56
                                                                                                                    0

Long-Term Economic Trends                                                                                           -2

                                                                                                                                              95                            05
Consumer prices (annual % change)                                ..        1.1            4.2         8.0
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                       10.2         1.6            3.2         7.1
                                                                                                                                          GDP                    GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                211.3      272.3           712.0       447.8
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                                ..         ..           100         112
                                                                                                                         1980­90 1990­2000       2000­08
                                                                                                                             (average annual growth %)
Population, mid-year (millions)                                3.6        4.8             6.7         8.7                           3.0               3.3                  3.3
GDP (US$ millions)                                           1,405      1,845           2,255       6,680                           2.5               4.8                  3.9
                                                                           (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   35.4        36.1           36.5        32.2                           5.1               5.8                  4.6
Industry                                                      12.3        13.2           13.9        13.4                           3.4               4.1                  3.8
  Manufacturing                                                8.0         7.8            8.8         7.5                           5.1               5.8                  2.7
Services                                                      52.3        50.7           49.6        54.4                           0.7               4.2                  3.2

Household final consumption expenditure                       97.7        86.8           82.4        78.1                        1.9                  2.6                  2.1
General gov't final consumption expenditure                    8.6        11.0           11.6        15.0                        0.5                  4.4                  8.3
Gross capital formation                                       15.2        14.2           18.9        20.7                       -5.3                 12.2                  7.7

Exports of goods and services                                 15.8        14.3           15.2        15.2                       -4.3                  1.8                  2.7
Imports of goods and services                                 37.3        26.3           28.1        28.9                       -6.2                  2.1                  1.8
Gross savings                                                  1.1         9.9           10.9        12.1


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2007.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                              22
                                                                                                                                                                             Benin

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                        2000        2 0 10

(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                                     386      758
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                                      447    1,494                Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                                     -292    -738
                                                                                                           Political stability

Current acco unt balance                                               -181    -480
                                                                                                         Regulatory quality
 as a % o f GDP                                                        -8.0     -7.0

                                                                                                                 Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                               87      145                    Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                              406      220                                              0        25          50           75        100

                                                                                                            2008                     Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                               higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                            2000

(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                                     16.7     18.4
 Tax revenue                                                           14.6     16.0
Current expenditure                                                    12.4     15.4
                                                                                               T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                       2000         2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                                -3.4     -3.0
                                                                                               P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                     20.0          9.5
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                                  Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                              ..      30                                 00
                                                                                                subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                             2      24
 Co rpo rate                                                             ..      25            High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                                (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                       0.1        0.1
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                               E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                1,591   1,320            A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                29         32
To tal debt service                                                      75      58            Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                     24.2       21.3
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                             366      604            Natio nally pro tected areas (% o f land area)                        ..      23.6

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                              70.6      19.4           Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                   1,448        1,227
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                                  16.6       5.1           Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                      0.1               ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                               60       121           CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                     0.24       0.33
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                       0       63
                                                                                               GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                                (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                           4.2       3.8

                                                                                               Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                      301        346
                           Short-term, 38    IBRD, 0
                           Private, 0

                                                                                               Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                             2000         2008
                                                            IDA, 255
              Bilateral, 305
                                                                                               (US$ millio ns)
                                                              IMF, 22
                                                                                               IB RD
                                                                                                To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                  0           0
                                                                                                Disbursements                                                           0           0
                                                       Other multi-
                                                                                                P rincipal repayments                                                   0           0
                                                       lateral, 366                             Interest payments                                                       0           0

                                                                                               IDA
                                                                                                To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                             578         255
                                                                                                Disbursements                                                       36          84
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                        2000        2008              To tal debt service                                                  8           2

Time required to start a business (days)                                 ­       31            IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                         ­    152.6             To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                           0           0
Time required to register pro perty (days)                               ­      120              o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                            0           0
                                                                                                Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                    0           0
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                        2000        2008              P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                            repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                      0           0
  Tax rates                                                              ..   68.0
  Tax administratio n                                                    ..   62.0             M IGA
                                                                                                Gro ss expo sure                                                        ­           2
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                               ..          ..         New guarantees                                                          0           1
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                         ..          ..


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                           2/25/10
.. indicates data are no t available. ­ indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

                                                                                          23
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                    Benin


With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                                                                Benin


Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                                               1990           1995               2000                2008
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, % of population)                                                ..              ..                ..               47.3
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                           ..           26.5              29.0                   ..
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                   ..              ..                ..                6.9
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                           ..              ..             21.5                   ..

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                          41               ..               52                     80
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                           18              27                35                     64
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                       9              13                20                     32
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                                40               ..               45                     52

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                               49               ..               64                     73
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                              21               ..               24                      ..
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                                 3               7                 6                     11

Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                         184            162                144                 123
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                              111             98                 89                  78
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                             79             65                 72                  61

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)                                         ..             ..                 ..                840
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                         ..            60                 66                  74
 Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                             ..            16                 19                  17

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                             0.1             0.8                1.3                1.2
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                             77              80                 85                 91
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                   ..            84                 86                 86

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                       63              63                64                  65
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                                                 12              19                24                  30
 Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                        30.0            27.1              24.2                21.3
 Nationally protected areas (% of total land area)                                                            ..              ..                ..               23.6
 CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                     0.1             0.2               0.2                 0.3
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                  3.2             3.5               4.2                 3.8

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                                                       0.3             0.5                0.8                1.3
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                                                  0.0             0.0                0.8               39.7
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                            0.0             0.0                0.2                1.8
 Personal computers (per 100 people)                                                                          ..            0.1                0.2                0.7




   100                                                       100                                                   30

    75
                                                             75
                                                                                                                   20
    50
                                                             50
    25
                                                                                                                   10
                                                             25
     0

           2000      2002      2004         2006     2008      0                                                    0

                                                                       1990    1995       2000    2007                    2000      2002      2004      2006       2008
             Primary net enrollment ratio

             Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary            Benin           Sub-Saharan Africa                Fixed + mobile subscribers   Internet users
             education



Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                                        2/25/10

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                              24
25
