Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15118-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs
PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January 31, 1996
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1995)
Currency Unit   =    Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =      Rp 2,246
Rp I million   =      US$445
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
AIDS                 Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AusAID               Australian Agency for International Development
AZT                  Azidothymidine (also known as zidovudine), an
antiretroviral drug used to slow progression of AIDS
Bappenas             National Development Planning Board
Bupati               Chief district administrator
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CDC/EH               Communicable Disease Control and Environmental Health
DG                   Director General
Dinas                Provincial Health Service
DIP                  Development budget
ELISA                Enzyme-linked Immunosorbet Assay
GOI                  Government of Indonesia
GPA                  Global Program on AIDS
HAPP                 HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
HIV                  Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
iwg-AIDS model       Epidemiological projection model
Kakanwil             Head of the Provincial Office of Ministry of Health
KEPRI                Kepulauan Riau district in Riau province
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufban
Lokalisasi           Regulated brothel complex
MOH                  Ministry of Health
NAC                  National AIDS Commission
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non-governmental organization
O&M                  Operations and maintenance
PAC                  Provincial AIDS Commission
PIU                  Project implementation unit
STDs                 Sexually transmitted diseases
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Wali kota            Mayor
WHO                  World Health Organization
WTP                  Willingness to pay



- i -
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDS PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Health
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Amount:                  US$24.8 million
Terms:                   Standard amortization term, grace period and interest rate for
fixed rate US dollar, single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 3-6 years.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          The proposed Bank loan, US$24.8 million, would cover
about 70 percent of the total cost, US$35.2 million
equivalent; the Governnent would finance the remaining
cost, US$10.4 million equivalent.
Economic Rate of Return:  Net present value calculated for major component
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 1511 8-IND
Project Identification No.: ID-PE-39643






- ii -
CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY ...................................................                                         1
Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Indonesia ................................................I
The Advent of HIV  in Indonesia ...................................................2
Some  Regional Dimensions ...................................................3
Economic and Welfare Implications ...................................................                     5
The Government's Strategy and Key Design Issues ....................................9
2. PAST AND PROSPECTIVE BANK INVOLVEMENT .......................................... 15
Lessons from  World Bank Projects and Other Initiatives .......................... 15
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement ........................................... 16
3. THE PROJECT ..................................................                                                             19
Project Objectives ..................................................                                   19
Project Components ..................................................                                   22
Project Description ..................................................                                  23
Project Management and Implementation . ................................................ 27
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..................................................                                            31
Costs ..................................................                                               31
Financing ..................................................                                           34
Procurement ..................................................                                         35
Procurement Review ..................................................                                   37
Disbursement ..................................................                                        40
Accounts, Audits and Reports ..................................................                        41
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................................                                             43
Program  Goals and Potential Benefits ..................................................    43
Risks ..................................................                                               44
Sensitivity Analysis ..................................................                                45
Environmental Impact ..................................................                                45
Implications for Women ..................................................                              45
Poverty Impact ..................................................                                      46
Sustainability  ..................................................                                     46
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 47
BIBLIOGRAPHY ................................................                                                             49
This project is based on the findings of a July, 1995 pre-appraisal mission comprised of S.
Lieberman (Task Manager) and F. Saadah, and an October, 1995 appraisal mission made up
of S. Lieberman, F. Saadah, N. Mattson and E. Iswandi. F. Saadah led the October, 1994
identification mission, while S. Lieberman and F. Saadah visited Indonesia in February
1995 for project preparation. During the project development, significant assistance was
provided by the following JGF-funded consultants -- K. Parker, L. Gelmon, N. Constantine,
M. Moore, C. Campbell, M. Linnan, and J. Moran -- who worked closely with the Ministry
of Health preparation team. Tracee Williams handled the processing and production of this
report in every respect. This project has been endorsed by Marianne Haug (Director).



- iii -
24j%4f*4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5~~                                                                                       .51
ANNEXES  ........................................................................................... 51
1:  Treatment Costs ..............................................................                                                            53
2:  The Syndromic Approach to STD Diagnosis and Treatment .................................. 55
3:   Donors Funding AIDS-Related Activities, 1996-2000 ........................................... 57
4:   Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................................................                                                 58
5:    Project Implementation  Plan ..............................................................                                             66
6:    Proposed  Technical Assistance .............................................................                                            79
7:   Supervision Plan .............................................................                                                           83
8:  Cost Tables .............................................................                                                                 84
9:    Estimated  Schedule  of Disbursements ..............................................................                                      86
10:  Procurement Plan: Contracting and Review Responsibilities ................................ 87
11:    Economic  Analysis of AIDS  Expenditures ............................................................. 88
TABLES IN TEXT
Table  3.1:  Designated  Performance  Indicators ..............................................................  20
Table 4.1 a: Summary of Project Costs by Component by Province (US$ million) ......... 31
Table 4.1b: Project Cost Summary .............................................................                                                   32
Table 4.2a: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditures by Province (US$
million) ..........................................................................                                                      33
Table 4.2b: Project Cost Summary .............................................................                                                   33
Table  4.3:  Financing  Plan  (US$  million) .............................................................                                       36
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million) ...................................................... 39
.          ................................................................................................................IBRD   27707



- 1 -
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Indonesia
1.1    Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) were a major public health concern in
Indonesia in the late colonial period and in the first several decades following
Independence. I The increasing number of cases led to the establishment in Surabaya of a
special institute within the Ministry of Health (MOH) to address STD-related issues.
This institute carried out prevention, control and research activities, including provision
of weekly penicillin injections to prostitutes working in recognized brothel complexes.2
Thanks to improved antibiotics and persistent efforts, including the mass prevention and
treatment program for brothel workers, the incidence of syphilis fell in the 1970s.
1.2    Along with the decline in incidence rates for syphilis came a lessening of interest
in and support for STD services. The central MOH budget for STD-related activities fell
sharply. Central support for the mass treatment of syphilis was terminated in 1987, and
during the 1987/88-1989/90 interval, no funds were allocated for the subdirectorate
covering STDs within the overall communicable diseases directorate. Budgetary
restrictions and shifting priorities took their toll on different aspects of the STDs
program. For example, STD surveillance and efforts eroded; there was a reduction in
research on epidemiological and clinical issues including antibiotic sensitivity and
resistance patterns; health workers' awareness of and ability to diagnose and treat STDs
were suspect; and laboratories were unprepared to test for and identify STD cases.
1.3    This situation has persisted despite growing indications that STDs are present in
high rates within large segments of the Indonesian population. Such evidence is not
comprehensive and systematic, due to the limited coverage and reliability of the existing
passive surveillance mechanism which relies on routine reports from government
hospitals, laboratories and clinics. Among other things, this system refers only to syphilis
and gonorrhea and fails to cover numerous other STDs which may be present. The
passive system is also unable to document the very large share of STD cases seen by
One study estimated that 1.5% of the population of Surabaya suffered from infectious syphilis; other
studies pointed to very high STD prevalence rates among pregnant women, soldiers and the urban
population overall.
2   Beginning in 1957, a weekly injection of 2 ml of penicillin aluminium monostearate was given to brothel
workers in Surabaya. In 1967, the amount given was increased to 3 ml since many workers were skipping
injections and not maintaining the required blood level. This program created a public impression that
regular injections were a guarantee of the good health of prostitutes (Jones, et. al., 1994)



- 2 -
private practitioners and diagnosed and tested through private laboratories, or which are
self-treated, sometimes with antibiotics purchased in pharmacies.
1.4  Indonesia's sentinel surveillance mechanisms for STDs, which ideally would
include a range of special surveys, longitudinal studies and other active reporting
arrangements are also inadequate. Nevertheless, available information suggests ample
grounds for concern. The most reliable findings, based on information collected in
Surabaya in 1992 and 1993, relates to sex workers and their clients, as well as several
occupations thought to make extensive use of sex industry services and a sample of
antenatal clinic clients (Linnan and Surabaya STD Study Group, 1995). STD infection
rates were high in all of the groups surveyed. For instance, 39 percent of the 1925 sex
workers who were tested had at least one STD, and 28 percent had two or more
infections; 22 percent of the clients of sex workers had an STD; and 18 percent of the
sample (599 women) of antenatal clinic visitors had an STD. The high rates for sex
workers were consistent with findings from small surveys of prostitutes and transvestites
carried out in the same period in Jakarta and Batam. What is of special note are the high
infection rates found among groups, e.g., pregnant women visiting antenatal clinics,
truckers, sailors and construction workers, drawn from and arguably representative of the
general population not only in Surabaya but elsewhere in urban Java. Based on such
findings, the study concludes that prevalence rates for any one STD vary between two
and five percent within the sexually active population (ages 15-60).
The Advent of HIV in Indonesia
1.5   The low priority attached to STDs as public health concerns has begun to change,
largely because of the arrival in Indonesia of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
which is the causative agent for the deadly Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS). HIV can be transmitted through blood transfusion, intravenous needle sharing,
vertical (mother-fetus and mother-child) channels, and through other means. However,
the main transmission route, accounting for over 95 percent of known cases in Indonesia
and similar proportions in most other countries, is through unprotected sexual activity.
HIV is a new, complex and dangerous STD, and as such, interactions between HIV and
other STDs are of special concern since the presence of a conventional STD can facilitate
transmission of HIV, and hasten the onset and increase the severity of the symptoms and
complications experienced by those who are HIV seropositive (Wasserheit,1991). This
link is clearest between HIV and those STDs that cause genital ulcers, e.g., chancroid and
syphilis. Other STDs such as chlamydia, gonorrhea and trichomoniasis can increase the
risk of HIV transmission as well through genital inflammation (which raises the white
blood cell count and causes microscopic cuts). On the other hand, infection with HIV is
conducive to the acquisition of other STDs, prolongs their infectiousness and makes them
more resistant to standard treatment.
1.6   HIV was first diagnosed in Indonesia in 1987, though the arrival and initial
transmission of the virus may have occurred as early as 1984. As of December 1995,
364 HIV cases had been documented through MOH's passive reporting system. Over a



- 3 -
third of these individuals lived in Jakarta and adjacent urban areas with another 23
percent of the cases located elsewhere in Java and Bali. So far, HIV victims have been
identified in fifteen of the country's 27 provinces and in all of the major islands except
for Sulawesi.
1.7   However, these figures have many questionable features. For instance, the high
ratios of males to females among individuals with HIV and of AIDS victims to all HIV
cases are uncharacteristic of the epidemic in other countries and point to a significant
undercount. Similarly, the median white blood cell count for those with HIV is at the low
level typical of those who have had the disease for five or more years, while the average
age of reported HIV cases, 30.2 years, is high compared to other countries. In the HIV
epidemic elsewhere, transmission has hit mainly those in the 15-25 age interval. The
exclusion from the regular reporting system of vulnerable groups such as the military
needs be noted as well.
1.8   Also pointing to underenumeration of HIV cases are various features of the
Indonesian social and economic scene. As in neighboring countries, rapid economic
growth has brought changing employment patterns and increased migration to urban
areas and to special economic zones. Employment shifts and geographic and social
mobility have raised demand for commercial sexual services and increased exposure to
STDs and HIV. The commercial sex industry appears to be expanding, in part because of
rising tourism, but also due to heightened demand from local clients. A second risk
factor is the increased number of Indonesians who have been visiting neighboring
countries such as Thailand and Australia which are further advanced in the HIV
epidemic. A third factor may be transmission of HIV through drug use by injection.
There appears to be less intravenous drug use in Indonesia than in Thailand or Australia.3
Nevertheless, such behavior may spread HIV in some subgroups which are not covered
by existing reporting arrangements.
1.9   In short, it appears that most HIV cases are not being enumerated by existing
routine and still limited active surveillance mechanisms. Accordingly, the actual number
of Indonesians who are HIV seropositive is probably far higher than the reported figure,
though the size of the undercount cannot be determined with precision.
Some Regional Dimensions
1.10  Jakarta. The scale and imminence of the HIV epidemic very likely vary by
region. As mentioned, Jakarta accounts for a third of Indonesia's reported HIV cases.
This is not surprising since the country's capital has characteristics that heighten the
population's exposure to HIV. Jakarta's vulnerability to HIV derives from the large
inflows to the area of temporary visitors, e.g., tourists, businessmen, truckers, sailors, and
so forth; students and migrant workers; the large formal and informal industry and
A 1994 study of high risk behavior in metropolitan Surabaya concluded there were at least 2500
intravenous drug users in that metropolitan area alone (Linnan, et. al., 1995).



service sectors that have developed; and from the extensive and flourishing commercial
sex industry that serves the metropolitan region.
1.11   Greater Jakart with an estimated population of 9 million in 1990, includes
Jakarta itself (1990 population, 8.2 million) and the contiguous cities of Bogor, Bekasi
and Tangerang (combined 1990 population 800,000). The sexually active population in
this urban region was an estimated 5.4 million in 1990. Although exact data do not exist,
recent studies suggest there may be 20,000-40,000 individuals in this region earning
income as sex workers (Jones, et. al. 1994). The commercial sex industry caters to a
wide range of lower, middle and upper income customers, and includes a range of service
locations and considerable diversity among service providers. For instance, there are
recognized and regulated brothel complexes (lokalisasi) such as Kramat Tunggak in
Tanjung Priok in North Jakarta which are typically visited by lower and middle income
clients . In addition, there are other places where sexual transactions and activities occur
including smaller brothel complexes, massage parlors, and single unit brothel houses.
There are also numerous sites--nightclubs, discotheques, bars, hotel lobbies, beauty
salons-- which provide a venue for sexual transactions. Finally, there are many call girls
and streetwalkers working as independent operators. Sex workers vary in their provincial
origins, educational and media characteristics, access to health information and facilities
and in their bargaining position vis a vis clients.
1.12   As discussed, surveys point to very high STD infection rates among commercial
sex workers. Rapid assessments conducted as part of project preparation suggest that
some of these individuals, particularly those working in lokalisasi, are informed to some
extent about conventional STDs as an occupational hazard, and believe they know how to
prevent infections and respond to symptoms. However, the health remedies sought are
typically delayed and suboptimal, while condom use is not widely practiced by such
commercial sex workers. Awareness of STD risks and counteracting behavior were less
evident outside the lokalisasi complexes.
1.13   The high STD infection rates in Jakarta are of concern because of the associated
risks of acquiring and transmitting HIV. As with the national level total, the reported,
cumulative HIV figure for Jakarta, 118 through October 1995, appears to underestimate
substantially the actual count. The iwg-AIDS projection model was used to estimate
current and future numbers of HIV and AIDS cases in Jakarta through the year 2010.4
The realistic standard scenario explored through this model puts the number of HIV
seropositives at 2500 in 1993 and 8500 in 1995, and anticipates an increase to 42,500 in
2000, 75,500 in 2005 and 140,000 in 2010. In this projection, the number of individuals
with AIDS rises from 3800 in 2000 to 8,500 in 2005 and 17,500 in 2010.
The iwg-AIDS model determines the number infected within key subgroups and then aggregates these to
obtain population-level estimates. Needed parameters were drawn from available surveys of commercial
sex workers and through a Delphian process with a panel of Indonesian experts (see Kosen and Linnan,
1994, and Annex II on Economic Analysis of AIDS Expenditures). The estimates reported here were
derived by Dr. M. Linnan, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta.



- 5 -
1.14  Riau province. Another area of concern comprises Batam, Tanjung Pinang and
several other sites in Riau province. Batam, Tanjung Pinang, the capital city of
Kepulauan Riau (KEPRI) district, and adjacent areas in this district are part of a policy-
stimulated growth triangle which also includes Singapore and Johore in Malaysia.
Batam's population grew from 6000 in 1973 to 168,000 in 1995 and is expected to
continue to rise at a rapid pace. KEPRI district has grown more slowly--its population
increased from 422,712 in 1980 to 477,700 in 1995, but is expected to expand at a
quickening pace as a result of close ties to Batam and Singapore. Pekanbaru city and
Bengkalis, Kampar and other districts have grown less rapidly, but are still vulnerable to
the epidemic.
1.15  Batam has emerged as an industrial, tourist and entertainment center. Nearly 64
percent of the labor force is employed in the different manufacturing firms which have
been attracted to the island by tax, tariff and other incentives. Women account for over
60 percent of the industrial workforce and roughly 44 percent of island's working
population. Anther part of Batam's growth is due to its hotel and tourist services. Nearly
900,000 people, many tourists from nearby Singapore, visited the island in 1994, as
compared to 60,000 in 1985 and 579,000 in 1990. During the late 1980s and early 1990s,
the sex industry expanded rapidly at Batam, thanks to restrictions in Singapore and
Malaysia and a growing inflow of relatively foreign and Indonesian businessmen,
industrial workers, sailors, and others. Currently, there are an estimated 3000 or more
women working in Batam's highly differentiated commercial sex sector.
1.16  There is a comparable concentration of entertainment services and commnercial
sex workers in KEPRI district adjacent to Batam and in reach of Singapore, Malaysia and
even Thailand. In particular, there are nine subdistricts in this district, including East and
West Tanjung Pinang, North and East Bintan. Singkep, Siantan, Moro, Karimum and
Kundur, with entertainment establishments catering to tourists, soldiers and sailors, Thai
fishermen and businessmen. There are an estimated 1500- 2000 commercial sex workers
in these areas.
1.17  The above factors have made Batam and KEPRI very susceptible to STDs and the
HIV epidemic. Local health authorities reported six HIV infected persons in Batam and
eight in KEPRI, and 29 for Riau province overall in December 1995. Of special concern
are the high turnover rates of those employed as commercial sex workers in the two areas
and as laborers in Batam's industrial estates and the large number of transient tourists,
sailors, truckers, and so forth--the region may become a site which transmits HIV to other
parts of Indonesia and Southeast Asia.
Economic and Welfare Implications
1.18  Conventional STDs can cause serious complications, and can result in chronic ill-
health and death. Typically, infections in men cause mild to severe genital and/or urinary
tract problems. Complications may include incapacitating urethral stricture, epididymitis,
infertility, neurological sequelae, cardiovascular infections, chronic liver diseases and



-6 -
cancer. The consequences for women include spontaneous abortion, ectopic pregnancy,
tubal occlusion and other adverse reproductive outcomes; crippling pelvic inflammatory
disease; infections in infants; and hepatitic and cervical cancer. Particularly in women,
morbidity and mortality from STDs are not well defined. There may be a long latent
period before acute problems appear.
1.19   The health consequences of STDs have not been treated as high priority public
health problems in most developing countries. (As discussed, government attention to
these diseases decreased in Indonesia in the 1 970s and 1 980s.) However, recent work
has reexarnined the health impacts of STDs (Over and Piot, 1991). These studies suggest
that the burden, measured in terms of healthy days lost per capita, can be significant in
high prevalence settings, e.g., urban centers and industrial and tourist areas. Because of
these health consequences, treatment of STDs can yield significant economic benefits,
since most of those affected are of working age and also have responsibilities towards
children and aged relatives.
1.20   Moreover, establishing effective control over STDs is likely to have further
beneficial impacts by slowing transmission of HIV (please see para. 1.5). Indeed, the
benefits of averting an HIV case usually dominate those associated with reducing the
prevalence of conventional STDs. This is because HIV is far more expensive to treat
than other STDs. HIV and AIDS often entail protracted illness and numerous
opportunistic infections and other symptoms and complications which require costly
clinical or palliative interventions. In addition, the economic effects of HIV are more
serious because AIDS leads to eventual (as opposed to periodic) withdrawal from the
labor force, growing debilitation and death. All in all, the life days lost due to HIV place
this disease in the forefront of the list of incapacitating health problems. Even in low
prevalence urban centers, HIV and conventional STDs ranked eleventh among major
causes of health loss, ahead of tuberculosis, adult pneumonia and neonatal tetanus (Over
and Piot, 1991). In high prevalence urban areas, STDs including HIV account for a
substantial fraction of the entire disease burden of the population-- by itself HIV ranked
fourth in one study and moved up to third when days lost were weighted by relative
productivities.
1.21   These findings point to the potential advantages of reducing the rate and extent of
HIV transmission. These benefits may be defined in terms of the HIV-related costs to
individuals and the society which can be averted through public policy. Here, the
dominant approach in the literature distinguishes between direct and indirect costs
associated with the epidemic. The former involve various costs of treatment including
those for HIV and other tests, drugs, consultations and hospital stays. Treatment costs are
based on assumptions about the typical patterns of symptoms and complications
associated with HIV/AIDS and standard treatment protocols.5 Such cost figures are often
AIDS is usually diagnosed when a patient experiences severe weight loss, chronic diarrhea and persistent
fever, as well as some combination of recurrent coughing, dermatitis, herpes, zoster, candidiasis (in the
mouth, respiratory tract or vagina), herpes simplex infection and/or enlarged lymph glands.



- 7 -
underestimated because patients may consult several providers simultaneously. In
addition, there may be specific symptoms or medicines and therapies not included in the
"standard" treatment package. For example, treatments costs were estimated at
US$17,000 per HIV/AIDS patient in Brazil in 1992. This high cost reflected extensive
use of AZT to delay the onset of AIDS.6 In India where AZT and other antiretrovirals
were not generally used, the costs per AIDS patient were estimated at US$738 in 1991
(Bloom and Glied, 1992).
1.22  In Indonesia, the costs of treating AIDS were estimated for patients in Jakarta in
1995 (Annex 1, Tables 1-2). These costs were higher for those in private (US$1213-6235
per case) as compared to public (US$489-2899 per case) facilities. These estimates were
based on the costs of the drug therapies prescribed for a "typical" set of opportunistic
infections associated with AIDS. AZT and other antiretrovirals are not included in the
standard treatment regimen. Accordingly, costs per AIDS patient are well below those in
Brazil, the USA, and Europe (Scitovsky and Over, 1988), and closer to outlays in India.
Nevertheless, these costs, at roughly US$2700 per patient, are not inconsiderable. Jakarta
residents, like most urban Indonesians, have access to government and private providers.
But fewer than 10 percent of the population are covered through prepaid health insurance
arrangements including Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs). For this reason, the
costs of the HIV epidemic will not be shared through insurance-based mechanisms but
will be absorbed largely by affected households and the govermment budget. Higher
income patients will likely turn to private providers and hospitals while middle and lower
income patients will rely on public facilities for treatment of AIDS-related infections and
symptoms.
1.23 Several concerns need be noted here. First, as has occurred in Thailand, an
increasing number of AIDS cases may put significant pressures on the health budget and
delivery system in Jakarta. This can be seen first by considering the impact of a rising
patient load on hospital capacity. Currently, there are about 14,400 beds in Jakarta's 60
general and 33 special (including maternity) hospitals; the bed occupancy ratio is
approximately 60 percent. Using the standard projection scenario, and assuming no
increases in bed capacity, AIDS patients would account for six percent of all hospital
beds in 2005 and 13 percent in 2010. Government spending on health in Jakarta in the
early 1990s was roughly US$63 million in 1994 (US$7.5 per capita). At an assumed cost
of US$2700 per case (per year), outlays for the 8500 AIDS patients projected to be
receiving treatment in 2005 (please see para. 1.13) would account for nearly 36 percent of
current health expenditures. The fiscal burden of the epidemic would be even larger if
costs per patient were to rise, as they are likely to do if and when AZT and other
antiretrovirals are included in the standard treatment protocol.
6
In Thailand, only ten percent of new AIDS patients were reported to be using antiretrovirals in 1994.
Nevertheless, the amount spent on these drugs already accounted for thirteen percent of the AIDS budget
(Prescott, 1995)



- 8 -
1.24  Secondly, significant expenses will still have to be met by affected individuals
and families, even if the government budget finances a large share of possible rising per
patient treatment costs. Cash payments in advance are normally requested for most drugs
and procedures, in public as well as private facilities. There will also be outlays for
transportation, other hospital expenses including food, over-the-counter drug purchases,
test and consultation fees and so forth. These charges will have to be covered largely
from savings, loans and/or liquidation of assets. This will be very difficult for poorer
households who as in other Asian countries likely account for a disproportionate share of
AIDS patients. AIDS may threaten the viability of such units, resulting in a lasting
impairment of poorer households' earning capacity and engendering widening income
inequality
1.25  The financial viability of affected households would be further weakened by
various output or income reductions associated witlh AIDS-related morbidity and
mortality. These income losses comprise the indirect costs of the epidemic. Again using
Jakarta as an illustration, these costs were calculated by assuming that individuals
infected with HIV forgo earnings equal to gross provincial product per adult, $3400 in
1995, from the age of onset of AIDS (assumed to be 35) to the average retirement age
(assumed to be 60). Two adjustments were made to this projected income stream. First,
per adult product in Jakarta was reduced by 20% to $2720 to reflect the likely
disproportionate representation of lower income individuals amongst AIDS patients. On
the other hand, calculations allowed for future income gains through a yearly growth
factor of 4%. No account was taken of income reductions that occur due to STD or HIV,
temporary absences from the labor market before full blown AIDS sets in, or of the losses
incurred by other family members who reduce their labor force involvement to care for a
sick relative. Finally, the flows of lost income were discounted at a rate of 8 percent.
The resulting estimate of income loss per AIDS case, $29,132, is more than ten times
larger than the estimated direct medical costs, roughly US$2700, of treating AIDS
patients.
1.26  These direct and indirect costs of AIDS are substantial on a per patient basis, and
foreshadow high aggregate costs if large numbers become infected. But these estimates
may capture only a fraction of the losses potentially associated with this disease. Mention
has already been made of a possible rise in treatment costs per patient (which may have
to be absorbed in large part by the government health system), income losses incurred by
other family members, STD and HIV-related treatment costs and income reductions, and
possible adverse implications for equity.
1.27  Moreover, the potential impact of the HIV looms even larger once account is
taken of individuals' willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid pain, discomfort, and restrictions
on non-working activities. WTP is usually estimated by using wage premiums linked to
increased mortality risks to estimate the value of a statistical life, i.e., what the society or
market are willing to pay to reduce each member's risk. In the absence of appropriate
wage or direct survey data, one approach derived rough estimates of WTP in Indonesia by
postulating a linkage with per capita, based in turn on findings for the U.S.A. (World



-9 -
Bank, 1994). This study concluded that the implied value of a statistical life in Indonesia
fell in the US$ 75,000-175,000 interval. This range of values is 2.5-5 times the direct and
indirect costs of AIDS per case presented above.
The Government's Strategy and Key Design Issues
1.28 Overview. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has acknowledged Indonesia's
vulnerability to HIV and the negative economic effects of a possible epidemic. In the last
two years, GOI has taken a number of decisive steps to reduce the pace and extent of HIV
transmission in the country.7 A May 30, 1994 Presidential decree created a National
AIDS Commission (NAC) headed by the Coordinating Minister for People's Welfare,
with the Ministers of Health, Religious Affairs, Social Affairs and Population serving as
vice chairmen and heads of designated working groups. With support from a small
secretariat and various working groups, the NAC is expected to coordinate national
policy and program development as regards AIDS. Three specific functions for the NAC
were cited in the accompanying June 1994 Ministerial decree8: to promote or provide
technical and social services essential to the national program and which are beyond the
capacity of communities; to develop guidelines for high quality case management; and to
support the responsible involvement of community groups and NGOs in AIDS activities.
The Presidential decree also established a commission in each province, chaired by the
Governor, and involving appropriate staff from various government departments as well
as community leaders and other local stakeholders.
1.29 The June 1994 Ministerial decree identified HIV and AIDS as health problems
with significant political, economic, social, ethical and legal consequences. For that
reason, the approach taken in this decree differs from that adopted towards other health
goals, e.g., control of conventional infant diseases. First, public policy concerns extend
beyond improving service access and quality particularly for the poor, which is a
rationale for current government health interventions. Here the justification for public
involvement lies in the recognition that individuals involved in risky behavior are not
aware of the health implications of unprotected sex and drug use, and do not bear the full
costs of their actions since some consequences are shifted via infection to others and to
the health system. The goal is to urgently educate the public about the risks of
unprotected sex, to reinforce behavior which does not involve possible HIV transmission
and to change high risk behavior.
1.30   Secondly, government leadership is expected to result in a strategy involving
numerous actors and sectors, including private providers and NGOs. The potential for
such a comprehensive approach is seen in the case of Jakarta which has a large and
7As early as 1987, MOH established an AIDS Control Committtee which drew up short and medium term plans
for HIV/AIDS prevention and control.
A further Ministerial decree, issued in February 1995, provides guidelines for public and private institutions in
carrying out HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs.



- 10-
diverse health services sector. In 1993, there were almost 4000 doctors and over 14,000
nurses working in the city's 93 hospitals and 317 health centers, and in numerous private
clinics and residential practices. Jakarta is also well endowed with public and private
health laboratories and pharmacies whose staff and facilities can be mobilized as part of
an STDs/HIV initiative. In addition, a very high share of Jakarta's population are
reached by television, newspapers and other mass media, and also are accessible in the
workplace and in schools. Thanks to this media involvement, there is already greater
awareness of AIDS in Jakarta than elsewhere in the country. For instance, in 1994 the
Indonesian Demographic Health Survey found that 87 percent of women ever married
had heard of AIDS in Jakarta as compared to 69 percent for those living in urban Java and
38 percent for Indonesia overall. Third, there are many NGOs active in health in Jakarta.
Several of these, including Yayasan Mitra and Yayasan Kusuma Buana have initiated
small scale, HIV-related efforts which can be fine-tuned and replicated on a wider scale.
1.31  There are opportunities for a multisectoral approach in Riau as well. For instance,
Batam has the health facilities (twelve hospitals and clinics) and staff (over 50 doctors
and 90 nurses) needed to develop a strong STD program. Another advantage for policy
development purposes is the accessibility of those who work in Batam or visit the island.
Most Batam residents are employed in relative large establishments--this applies not only
to industrial laborers but also to sex workers who are either concentrated in virtual
lokalisasis or operate in well demarcated entertaimnent complexes. Tourists and
commercial visitors would also be relatively easy to reach, for example with carefully
designed health education messages and other behavioral change measures that would
form part of an HIV program.
1.32  Key design features. The Ministerial decree and subsequent policy statements
embody a commitment to a number of program guidelines. The first of these is to
strengthen surveillance. The decree acknowledged that HIV prevalence exceeds the
documented number of cases, posing problems for the design of prevention efforts and
the evaluation of pilot initiatives. This will require capacity building, and improved
coordination between the epidemiology subdirectorate within the directorate of
communicable diseases which handles routine reporting of STDs and HIV/AIDS cases,
and the communicable disease subdirectorate which is responsible for sentinel
surveillance. Another design principle is the importance accorded to targeting those who
engage in risky behavior. The decree recognized the need to reach out not only to the
general public, health care providers, and women and adolescents, but also those
individuals whose work or lifestyle put them at higher risk of being infected with HIV or
transmitting the infection. The decree also signaled an intention to rely on and empower
local bodies. The leadership, management and coordination of HIV activities were
entrusted to broadly based provincial, district and municipal AIDS Commissions. It was
felt that such entities had the potential to mobilize and utilize various community
resources (including NGOs) effectively, and to identify and reach groups with high risk
behavior. In this regard, the decree designated NGOs as full partners in the national
program. Here, reference was made to the ability of NGO staff to reach those with
special needs and interests, such as religious leaders, youth, professionals and so forth.



- 11 -
The decree also cited the credibility of NGOs amongst those, such as sex workers and
drug users, who were not easily reached by government employees.
1.33  The final design imperative enumerated in the Ministerial decree was the need to
improve STD and HIV diagnosis and treatment, including preparing laboratories and
blood banks to deal with STDs and HIV. Currently, most facilities and providers are not
-prepared to deal effectively with STD patients-- rapid assessments in Jakarta and Batam
revealed low levels of knowledge among health workers about STDs with few providers
aware of the syndromic approach (please see Annex 2) or other promising diagnosis and
treatment methods. Moreover, these assessments suggested that the accessibility and
quality of STD services can be improved. Provincial health laboratories appear capable
of testing for HIV and some but not all STDs, while some private laboratories also have
adequate testing capacities. Similarly, the Red Cross has excellent testing facilities at the
central and provincial levels, and the blood supply screened there is probably free of HIV,
HBV and syphilis. But testing capacity and actual activities are uncertain in many district
laboratories and blood units. For this reason, the screening of blood units needs to be
expanded using HIV rapid testing techniques, and STD testing capacity needs to be
augmented as well. Also, the accuracy of HIV and STD tests needs to be safeguarded.
The quality of current tests is in question because of the absence of proficiency testing
and other quality assurance mechanisms.
1.34  Operationalizing the national AIDS strategy. The Presidential and Ministerial
decrees have opened the door to significant policy initiatives regarding STDs and AIDS.
Affordable and effective interventions now need to be designed and implemented.
Several challenges must be addressed in regard to operationalizing the national AIDS
strategy. First, careful and intensive pilot testing is required of alternative ways of
reaching those with STDs and delivering services to them, and of the messages and
commmunications channels that can have an impact on the behavior of targeted groups.
1.35  In addition, pilot activities need include not only trials directed at specific target
groups or service delivery mechanisms but efforts to determine how to assemble cost
effective, mutually reinforcing packages of interventions appropriate to particular
locations. What is required, in short, are pilot programs in provinces known to have
significant STD infection rates, indications of high risk behavior and a growing number
of reported HIV cases. The aim would be to bring together simultaneously and in a
unified framework all of the interventions, i.e., behavior change and service delivery
initiatives, laboratory improvements and upgraded surveillance, thought to be
indispensable in managing and preventing STDs and HIV. These comprehensive local
pilots would provide experience for program design and replication in other areas of the
country, if and when the epidemic continued.
1.36  The comprehensive local pilots would also provide a vehicle for working out
coordination and planning mechanisms and organizational arrangements governing the
different public and private stakeholders concerned with AIDS at the provincial level.
Matters to be addressed include how the local AIDS Commissions would function, the



- 12-
best way to involve NGOs, and different ways of channeling funds. It would be
essential as well to use the pilot provincial programs to institute effective monitoring and
evaluation procedures and activities-- it would be pointless to invest in numerous,
possibly expensive trial initiatives if proper assessments could not be conducted. The
Ministerial decree indicates that staff and resources need to be allocated to this important
function. To this end, appropriate performance indicators need to be developed and
derived from existing or newly collected informnation, and a monitoring and evaluation
capacity and mindset will need to be established within all implementing units.
1.37 The role of MOH. Coordination of MOH's various AIDS-related activities
constitutes a second issue with a significant bearing on the operationalization of the
national AIDS strategy. The Presidential decree designated the Minister of Health as the
First Vice Chairman of the NAC, with MOH expected to play a strong technical role in
program development. To date, MOH's AIDS-related activities have been centered in the
Directorate General for Communicable Disease Control and Environmental Health
(CDC/EH) under the leadership of the Director General (DG). Within CDC/EH, the
directorates of Directly Transmitted Diseases, Epidemiology and Immunization and the
Program and Reporting Division in the DG's office have been involved. However, the
latter units are also concerned with other diseases and issues and may lack the critical
mass of skills and focus required for a timely response to STDs and HIV. In addition,
other MOH units will need tc be involved in a coordinated response to the epidemic. The
Center for Health Laboratories is crucial for surveillance and STD control, while the
Center for Health Education can contribute to the design of behavior change strategies.
The DGs for Medical Services and Public Health, who administer the country's 337
publicly owned general hospitals and 7000 health centers, will need to endorse changes in
diagnosis and treatment protocols.
1.38  Making the best use of donor assistance. The third operational issue relates to
program financing and focus. AIDS-related interventions can be costly and of long-
duration. Indonesia is fortunate that several donors have assisted the planning, policy
development and organizational activities which have taken place thus far. In particular,
WHO and USAID have supported policy work on AIDS in Indonesia since the late
1980s. In addition, USAID has made available grant money to initiate program design
and delivery in several locations. WHO has funded program development, technical
assistance and related activities relying in part on resources provided by the Global
Program on AIDS(GPA) which, however, was terminated in December 1995. In
1994/95, WHO assistance, including long term consultants within MOH, amounted to
over US$650,000.
1.39  Looking ahead, USAID and several other donors are supporting initiatives which
are larger than past AIDS-related activities in Indonesia (Annex 3). For example,
USAID's five year HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (HAPP), which began in late 1995,
will provide US$20 million in grant funds to support social marketing of condoms,
behavioral change trials and diagnosis and treatment of STDs, primarily through
demonstration activities in North Jakarta and Surabaya and a third location to be



- 13 -
determined later. AusAID's five year grant of US$14.5 million equivalent will fund
AIDS-related activities, primarily in Bali, NTT and Ujung Pandang. AusAID's
assistance is directed for the most part at strengthening the NAC, and supporting PACs
and some NGO activities in the three provinces. KfW's grant of US$13. 1 million
equivalent will finance private sector condom promotion and improvements in blood
safety in Surabaya, Bali and Jakarta.
1.40  Donors have been the mainstay of the limited program developed to date, and will
continue to provide a major part of AIDS funding during the next three to five years.
Still, the government has recognized that grant resources in the form made available thus
far need to be supplemented with more flexible funding, and must be programmed and
managed carefully. For example, all of the donor-funded initiatives due to start in late
1995 or 1996 incorporate a stated preference to focus on specific geographical areas and
or activities. AusAID indicated a strong interest in working in Eastern Indonesia and
operating through the NAC and PACs, USAID has insisted on channeling nearly all of
its funds through NGOs, and KfW has emphasized blood safety. Because of such strong
donor priorities, grant money has not been made available to fund a variety of training,
capacity building, institutional development and outreach activities. Yet the latter are
indispensable building blocks for a sustainable program. Second, none of the donors has
contributed a broad approach or framework through which to prioritize and coordinate
various grant-funded trials and demonstration efforts. GOI expects that comprehensive
local pilot projects in different provinces, supported by Central-level technical
assistance, will provide the missing program design and organizational framework.
Third, the introduction of funds from different sources has added to the complexity of
developing and managing a program which involves numerous units within MOH as well
as many ministries, NGOs, private parties and other stakeholders. These various
considerations relating to the involvement of different donors, each with specific
priorities and objectives, have been reflected in the design of this project (see Section 3),
and are an important element of the rationale for Bank involvement (see para. 2.7).



- 14 -



- 15-
2. PAST AND PROSPECTIVE BANK INVOLVEMENT
Lessons from World Bank Projects and Other Initiatives
2.1   Health Projects in Indonesia. The Bank has funded 13 health and population
projects in Indonesia since 1977. Five of these operations are still under implementation.
The ongoing and eight completed lending operations together point to lessons that should
be incorporated in HIV/AIDS policy development in Indonesia. These include: (1)
vertical interventions with blanket approaches have only limited impact given the
diversity in health status and determinants across the country; (2) community
participation and political and religious support are indispensable in such programs; (3)
the ability of government programs to reach minority and/or hard-to-reach groups has
been limited and better collaboration with NGOs and the private sector is needed to
deliver services to such groups; (4) addressing institutional issues and building capacity
at all level is needed to ensure sustainability; (5) phased implementation can be effective
if a comprehensive package of services is provided and areas are selected to maximize
program impact; (6) monitoring and evaluation should be an integral part of each project
component; and (7) projects can be an effective tool for policy development.
2.2   HIV/AIDS Projects and Components. There are at least 40 ongoing Bank projects
with AIDS and STD components. In addition, Bank-funded AIDS operations are
underway in Zaire, India, Brazil, Zimbabwe, Uganda and Kenya. One review of early
project results called on Country Departments to focus increased attention on countries,
notably those with high levels of STDs but low incidence of HIV, which still have an
opportunity to slow the epidemic (Lamboray and Elmendorf, 1992). There are other
emerging findings: (1) government programs are often unprioritized and spread too thin;
(2) the private sector and NGOs are better equipped typically than governments to reach
many communities; (3) understanding determinants of behavioral change in different
settings is crucial for prevention; (4) mass media are more effective if linked with
community and interpersonal initiatives ; (5) STD prevention and management should be
an integral part of HIV/AIDS programs; (6) operational research is often needed to
identify effective approaches; (7) good monitoring and evaluation systems should be
developed within HIV/AIDS programs; and (8) such programs usually help to strengthen
overall health policy and disease control efforts.
2.3   Yet despite these broad findings and growing experience around the world with
HIV interventions, Bank projects as well as other STD and AIDS initiatives have
provided little concrete guidance on how to design cost effective interventions of
appropriate scope. This absence of transferable lessons is surprising at first sight since



-16-
the literature on AIDS refers to many "success" stories, including documented reductions
in risky sexual and drug-related behavior and in STD and HIV prevalence. For example,
a Thai government program has brought increased condom use and a reduction in the
number of STD cases being treated in public clinics (Brown, et.al., 1994). Promising
reductions in risky behavior by injecting drug users and young men in general in
Thailand have also been cited (Sittirai and Brown, 1994). Another recent illustration is
the reported 42 percent reduction in HIV incidence in Tanzania as a result of improved
case management of conventional STDs in primary care facilities in rural areas
(Grosskurth, et.al., 1995).
2.4   Some cautionary principles need to be kept in view when reviewing such findings.
First, outcomes may be taken out of context or not evaluated with sufficient rigor. For
example, the study just cited noted that it was difficult to determine how much of the
reported drop in STD cases was due to shifts from government to private treatment
centers. Moreover, results often refer to limited trial initiatives--replication on a larger
scale usually introduces major complications. Here Thailand is again a good reference
point. The country's well publicized successes at the pilot stage including those just
reported do not seem to have materially altered an overall government effort which recent
observers have found to be "grossly inadequate" (Ungphakom and Sittirai, 1994). More
generally, findings and lessons appear to be context specific and culture-bound. For
example, a recurrent observation is that behavior change messages need to be provided by
credible sources and reinforced by locally reputable community figures. An implication
is that to achieve success, initiatives directed at groups practicing risky behavior in
Indonesia will have to be articulated and pursued in culturally acceptable terms.
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
2.5   The proposed project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) which was presented to the Board in February 1995. As indicated in that
document, the Bank's assistance supports the main features of Indonesia's development
strategy including enhanced human resource development, poverty reduction through
greater access of the poor to basic services and assignment of increased responsibility to
local governments in the provision of health and other services. The CAS notes that
considerable scope exists to improve the quality of health services through better resource
use. Bank-supported lending and sector work in Indonesia have addressed health service
quality by tailoring interventions to local epidemiological patterns; involving provincial
and district authorities and community members in the design and implementation of
health programs; improving availability and use of appropriate skills, drugs and
materials at the facility level; and enabling central units to concentrate on providing
technical support.
2.6   The proposed project extends this approach to the specific health circumstances
now emerging in a metropolitan region (Jakarta) and special economic zones (Batam
municipality, KEPRI district and other localities in Riau). These areas may provide a
preview of Indonesia's future. By virtue of rapid urbanization and economic growth,



- 17 -
nearly half of the population may be living in such settings within a decade. Health
priorities in Jakarta, as well as Batamn and Tanjung Pinang in Riau province now include
reducing the risk of transmission of HIV and STDs. This public health agenda needs to
be addressed with cost-effective interventions.
2.7   In this regard, the rationale for Bank involvement is to provide the flexible
resources and planning and coordination framework needed for the emergence of locally
grounded responses to a possible HIV epidemic. As discussed above (para. 1.40), Bank
funds, unlike most other donor resources, will be available to finance indispensable
training, capacity building, institutional development and outreach activities. In addition,
this Bank-supported initiative will introduce a broad framework, based on comprehensive
local pilot programs, and other mechanisms which will allow local and central level
activities, including those funded by different donors, to be differentiated, prioritized and
coordinated. Besides supporting comprehensive provincial projects in Jakarta and Riau
and complementary central level activities, Bank funds will assist in establishing an
HIV/AIDS and STDs Management Unit within MOH. This Central level unit will be
responsible for managing not only the Bank-supported project but all other donor assisted
AIDS interventions which involve MOH.



- 18-



- 19 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.1   The project is intended to help operationalize and implement the AIDS strategy
presented in the 1994 Presidential and Ministerial decrees. These policy
pronouncements are aimed at achieving lower STD and HIV incidence and fewer deaths
from AIDS in Indonesia, and the aim of this "first phase" project is to use intensive pilot
efforts to develop institutional mechanisms and interventions capable of reducing
transmission of STDs and HIV in Indonesia. A core program for STD and HIV
prevention in two pilot areas would be designed and implemented in partnership with
local NGOs; extensive monitoring and evaluation would identify which trial interventions
were promising and worth continuing.
3.2   Proximate objectives and corresponding performance indicators. Due to various
measurement challenges, progress towards the ultimate goal of reducing HIV
transmission may not be discernible within the three year duration of the project. STD
and HIV incidence will be monitored through the surveillance system (see Table 3.1:
Designated performance Indicators). However, at least initially the reported number of
STD and HIV cases would be expected to rise, as an indication that a strengthened
surveillance system was functioning. For this reason, the project is designed to attain a
number of proximate objectives. These include enhancing awareness about HIV and
STD transmission and prevention strategies in specific groups; promoting behavior
change among those participating in risky sexual activities; increasing the knowldege and
skills of health providers who deal with STDs and HIV; improving the capabilities of the
health laboratory system as regards STDs and HIV; and establishing effective
surveillance mechanisms for STDs and HIV and monitoring and evaluation systems to
gauge the impact of various interventions. The corresponding performance measures will
include the proportion of sex workers in designated sites who report ever and recent
condom use; the proportion of persons in particular target groups able to describe correct
use of condoms, and where and how they most recently obtained condoms; the
proportion of trained health providers who use the syndromic approach correctly; the
proportion of STD patients who sought care with 24 hours of noticing symptoms;
reported condom use and HIV and STD incidence and the scores achieved by different
laboratories in competency reviews and proficiency panels. Baseline values for these
indicators will be estimated during the first six months of implementation, and reasonable
achievement levels for years two and three of project execution will be agreed with the
government and then reviewed by Bank supervision missions. Various process and
output indicators will be used to assess the effectiveness of each of the many trials
included in the project (para. 3.27 and Annex 4).



- 20 -
Table 3.1: Designated Performance Indicators
Indicators                      I Data Source       I Level of Collection     Frequency
1.   Goal: Improved Awareness and Behavioral Change in Key Groups
1. Percent of CSWs seen by
providers for STDs who:          Exit Interviews     Sentinel Surveillance    Quarterly
Sites
- can describe correct use of a
condom according to standard
guidelines
- can explain where and how they
most recently obtained condoms
- have a positive attitude toward
consistent, correct condom use
2. Percent of CSWs in "localisasis"   Survey         NGOs and province/       Yearly
and other complexes reached by                       district staff
project who report ever use of
condom and use in last sexual act.
3. Percent of persons by target  Exit Interviews     NGOs and other           Quarterly
group leaving group education                        implementation agencies
sessions who:
- can cite at least 2 means of STD
prevention
- state that HIV is a special type of
STD
- state that a person can remain
healthy for several years but still
transmit the virus
- express the importance of positive
family attitudes toward a member
with AIDS
4. Percent of STD patients       Clinic/patient record  Providers at Sentinel Sites  One day per month
reportedly seeking care within 24
hours of noting symptoms
II.   Goal: Improved Knowledge and Skills of Health Providers
5. Percent of health workers trained  Surveys of     Health center - conducted   Every six months,
in syndromic approach who, 6     observations of     by province & center    beginning six months
months after training can:       randomly selected    personnel               after first training



- 21 -
Indicators                       Data Source          Level of Collection     Frequency
health workers                               workshops
- demonstrate appropriate use of
flow chart
- demonstrate how to use a condom
- explain the importance of treating
STDs as a way of preventing AIDS
III.  Goal: Establish Effective Surveillance Mechanisms _
6. Reported condom use with non-   Periodic surveys   Population-based        Twice yearly
regular sex partners                                  (conducted by center staff
or contracted out)
- # people aged 15-49 who reported
condom use in most recent act of
sex intercourse with a non-regular
partner
- # of people aged 15-49 reporting
sexual intercourse with a non-
regular sex partner in the past month
7. Reported STD incidence - (MEN)  Periodic surveys   Sentinel Surveillance   Monthly
Sites
(reported episodes of Syphilis in men
aged 15-49 - past month)
(men aged 15-49, surveyed)
8. STD incidence - (WOMEN)       Periodic surveys     Sentinel Surveillance   Monthly
Sites
(reported women aged 15-24, positive
for syphilis)
(pregnant women aged 15-24)
IV.  Goal: Enhance Capabilities and Proficiency of Health Laboratory System
9. Performance on bi-annual       Competency          Laboratory               Every six months
proficiency panel (Competency     Reports
Report)



- 22 -
3.3   Strategic alternatives. The approach developed in this project was selected over
several potential alternatives, based on criteria such as the possible dynamics of disease
transmission, the availability of grant funds to support specified activities, and the likely
efficacy of government staff and services. One of these alternative options was not to
introduce, at least in the near term, specific measures which respond to STDs and the
onset of a possible HIV epidemic. Instead, existing public and private facilities would be
expected to handle STD and AIDS patients as they presented themselves for treatment.
This alternative was rejected because there is clear evidence that the HIV infection is
spreading within Indonesia and because of the long lead time required to change the
course of an HIV epidemic. A second option was to concentrate on specific trial
interventions and tasks, e.g., mass media messages, outreach to sex workers particular
settings, or blood safety improvements. This alternative was rejected because of
Indonesia has access to donor grant funding which is earmarked for such demonstration
activities. What has not been made available are flexible resources which can be used to
assemble and evaluate packages of pilot interventions in individual localities. Another
option would be to strengthen and rely exclusively on public sector providers and
facilities. This alternative was found to be insufficient since it is unlikely that
government workers will have the commitment and empathy required to convey
persuasive messages to those evidencing high risk behavior.
3.4   A participatory approach. During project preparation, different beneficiary
groups, e.g., commercial sex workers, truckers and doctors, were consulted through the
interviews and focus group discussions that formed part of the needs assessments
undertaken in Jakarta and Riau. This high level of interaction with target beneficiaries
and other stakeholders will continue during the implementation thanks to several project
features. NGOs with credibility among different target groups will play a large role in
planning, carrying out and evaluating different behavior change interventions. In this
respect, training and deploying peer educators and counselors, drawn from different target
groups, will be an important initiative. Finally, beneficiaries will be consulted
periodically on different aspects of implementation via focus group discussions and other
mechanisms.
Project Components
3.5   The project consists of provincial level components and complementary central
level activities. Provincial (including district and municipality-managed) interventions
would introduce simultaneously and in the same localities various behavior change and
service delivery measures thought likely to achieve significant outcomes. These steps
would be accompanied by intensified surveillance, monitoring and evaluation efforts and
backed by appropriate coordination, management and funding arrangements. These
comprehensive pilot initiatives are intended to put in place packages which are cost
effective and replicable elsewhere in Indonesia. Behavioral trials and other interventions
to reduce or prevent risk would typically be carried out by NGOs and would include peer
and workplace education, counseling and other measures targeted at different groups.
Service delivery efforts, which would also draw on NGO providers, would involve



- 23 -
improvements in STD case diagnosis and management, antenatal syphilis and other STD
screening, condom marketing, blood screening, and infection control practices. The
relative weight and focus of the various elements in the pilot behavior change and service
delivery packages would be specified and approved by the provincial AIDS commissions.
3.6   The project will also fund various central level activities which assist in the
implementation of provincial AIDS programs. Resources will be provided to MOH for
the development of guidelines, standards and materials needed at the provincial level;
various forms of technical support to the pilot projects; strengthening surveillance and
health laboratories in preparation for the extension of the pilot initiatives to new areas;
and monitoring and evaluation and research to improve interventions and to gauge
program impacts. The project will also support needs assessments, baseline surveys and
related preparatory activities in several provinces which could be covered in a follow-up
operation. Relevant review and coordination activities of the National AIDS
Commission will be financed as well.
Project Description
3.7   Provincial Pilot Programs. Project activities and outlays in the two pilot
provinces are described below. The amounts in parentheses are base costs (see Table
4. la for a detailed breakdown).
3.8   Jakarta (US$8.8 million equivalent). The project will support behavior change,
STD service delivery, STD and HIV surveillance, laboratory strengthening, NGO
capacity building, monitoring and evaluation and management activities in the province
of Jakarta. As regards behavior change, the project will i) increase knowledge of HIV
risks within the population, while reinforcing traditional values and norms for positive
behavior, ii) enhance skills in risk reduction for those engaged in high risk behavior, and
iii) promote use of accessible, confidential and high quality STD services. Behavioral
interventions will be directed at various groups engaging in high risk behavior, health
providers and technicians, workplace and school audiences, and community
organizations. NGOs will play a key role in designing and carrying out behavioral
interventions in respect of the above groups. For the various audiences, the project will
support training of district and local trainers, counselors and peer group educators;
baseline surveys and needs assessments, focus group discussions and other forms of
message design and formative research; production (including printing) and distribution
of written educational and informational materials; and purchase and distribution of
condoms. NGOs and other entities will be contracted to develop and implement various
outreach activities including telephone "hotlines" and confidential HIV testing and
counseling services. Finally, projected pilot behavioral initiatives in North Jakarta to be
financed through the USAID-assisted HAPP project as well as possible European
Community-supported interventions will be accommodated within the above program,
once specific activities are clarified.
3.9   The project will also strengthen delivery of STD services in Jakarta by supporting
training of staff in the syndromic approach and infection control procedures. Due to the



- 24 -
particular features of the syndromic approach (please see para. 3.16 and Annex 2) not all
providers can be made proficient in STD case management in the first instance. Initially,
a relatively limited number of health workers will be targeted, comprising those most
likely to provide services to those engaging in risky sexual behavior. Funds will be
provided for skills need assessments; staff training; production of educational materials;
dissemination of guidelines and techniques to public and private doctors, nurses and
laboratory staff; purchase of laboratory equipment, test kits, drugs, condoms and
reagents; and dissemination of infection control and waste disposal techniques. Jakarta's
health laboratory system will be upgraded as regards STDs and HIV primarily through
purchase of equipment and materials needed to perform tests. Some retraining of public
and private laboratory staff will also be funded. Support to the blood banking and
transfusion system in Jakarta will not be included in this component as it is expected that
such activities would be financed by KfW (Annex 3).
3.10 In addition, the project will finance stepped up surveillance of HIV and STDs and
extensive monitoring and evaluation activities. The project will support collection,
testing and analysis of blood samples for a wide range of sentinel surveillance groups and
sites, as well as baseline and follow-up surveys of those providing STD services, and
women attending antenatal clinics. This will involve funding computers and other
equipment, reagents and other operating costs including supervision activities.
3.11   Finally, the project will support (i) establishment and operation of a province-
level management unit and (ii) review and coordination functions to be carried out by the
Provincial AIDS Commission.
3.12  Riau Province (US$7.3 million equivalent). The project will finance behavioral
and service delivery initiatives and associated surveillance, monitoring and evaluation,
and management activities initially in Batam and KEPRI, and later in other places in Riau
province. Behavioral interventions will be directed at health staff whose work makes
them susceptible to HIV, and at commercial sex workers, the clientele for the sex
industry, and others at risk. Comparable efforts will be made to reach secondary
audiences, e.g., employers and employees, educators and so forth. The activities to be
supported include production and distribution of educational materials; formative
research to develop effective media messages; counseling by telephone and on a person to
person basis; purchase of radio and television spots; procurement of condoms; and
training of district and local level trainers, peer group educators and counselors. An NGO
in Batam will be asked to develop and implement many of the outreach activities directed
at sex workers. In addition, Jakarta-based NGOs will be invited to initiate activities in
Batam, with proposals to be reviewed in a competitive process according to announced
criteria. For the secondary audience, the project will finance preparation and
dissemination of messages through different media workshops, needs assessments and
training of counselors, health education equipment and vehicles and so forth.
3.13  STD services will be strengthened through project support for skill needs
assessments; staff training including discussion of guidelines as regards patient
confidentiality and notification; dissemination of educational materials, standard



- 25 -
procedures and new techniques to doctors and other health care and laboratory staff; and
purchase of equipment, reagents, drugs, syringes and condoms. Guidelines and
procedures for those with AIDS will be tested and made available to doctors and nurses.
In existing blood transfusion units, blood banking and screening will be improved
through support for training of laboratory and blood bank staff, and through purchase of
equipment and reagents. In addition, the project would support renovation and equipping
of five transfusion centers together with purchase of reagents and staff training.
3.14 As in Jakarta, the project will fund intensified surveillance of STDs and HIV and
various monitoring and evaluation activities, including surveys of those providing STD
services. Sentinel surveillance will cover several categories of sex workers, their clients,
women attending antenatal clinics, and other relevant groups. The project will support
needed training as well as collection and analysis of blood samples, supervision, and
purchase of computers and other equipment, reagents and test kits.
3.15  Central activities (US$15.0 million equivalent).9 The project will support
coordination, technical assistance, media development, monitoring and education,
research and other activities carried out by central MOH units as well as review and
related functions performed by the NAC. Activity categories and outlays are described
below. The amounts in parentheses are base costs (see table 4.1 a for a detailed
breakdown).
3.16  STD svice delivery (USS 1.5 million equivalent). Reducing the incidence of
STDs is the main medical strategy used in this project to prevent HIV. The syndromic
approach has been chosen as the basis for strengthening the STD program. Successful
implementation of this strategy requires careful provider training that engenders changes
in practices regarding patients, the availability and proper use of recommended drugs and
materials, effective patient counseling and follow-up and a functioning laboratory and
referral system to back up the syndromic provider. The project will finance development
and testing of procedures relating to (i) the syndromic approach to STD case management
at the clinical level (including co-infection with tuberculosis) and though antenatal
service delivery, (ii) infection control techniques, and (iii) appropriate disposal of
infected blood products and other materials. Support will be provided for preparation and
production of training modules, research, fellowships, technical assistance, training of
trainers, and procurement of supplies, equipment and drugs. Project-funded activities
including technical assistance will be coordinated with the work program of a WHO-
financed expert on syndromic methods who will be assigned to MOH during 1996-97.
3.17 Surveillance (US$2.9 million equivalent!. The phased strengthening of STD
services will need to be based on an effective local surveillance system. The project will
focus initially on STD and HIV/AIDS surveillance activities in Jakarta and Riau, and
then in the second and third years of the project on strengthening surveillance in 65-70
other districts. Current STD surveillance will be changed to reflect the syndromic
Includes project management expenditures of US$1.5 million equivalent.



- 26 -
approach and a sentinel surveillance system will be established which focuses initially on
STD and HIV prevalence as well as behavior in high risk groups. The introduction of
this system will benefit from technical assistance during the first year; a WHO-funded
resident expert will also contribute to the design to be supported through this project.
Based on an assessment of experience during the first year, including a review of the
design and implementation of the system, the pace of expansion to other districts will be
determined. This expansion to other districts will also be based on epidemiological
considerations and on demonstrated regency-level capacity. The project will provide
resources for the identification of sub-populations and sentinel groups of interest and for
the development of objectives, key indicators and standard methods for each type, e.g.,
active case detection in hospitals, linked and unlinked serosurveys, and special
surveillance in selected sites, of surveillance activity. Through this sub-component,
technical support will be provided for surveillance in the pilot provinces, and also in other
provinces. Tasks and items to be funded include development of guidelines and manuals
regarding group/site selection and testing, and notification for those found to have STDs
and/or HIV; training of staff at different levels; technical assistance; study tours and
fellowships; development of a database; purchase of supplies and equipment; and
meetings and workshops. Surveillance activities will involve several sub-directorates
within the directorates for Directly Transmitted Diseases and Epidemiology as well as the
Program Planning Unit. During appraisal, agreement was reached on a program of
coordinated planning and implementation of sentinel and routine surveillance activities
within MOH and at the provincial level.
3.18   The laboratory system (US$6.0 million equivalent). The project will strengthen
Indonesia's health laboratories as regards HIV and STDs by increasing capabilities for
testing and diagnosis at different levels of the system and establishing tiered
arrangements for monitoring and training. Centers of Excellence would be established in
Jakarta, Medan, Surabaya and Ujung Pandang to serve as anchors in a system of quality
assurance. Improvements at these four sites would prepare staff and facilities to carry out
training, proficiency testing, trouble shooting and guidance roles as regards provincial
laboratories and other centers in their "catchment" areas. Provincial laboratories
throughout the country would be provided increased capacity to handle: HIV ELISA and
rapid assay tests, alternative HIV coinfirmatory approaches, culture and sensitivity testing
for gonorrhea, large scale surveillance testing and chlamydia testing. The project would
assist the national reference laboratory at Cipto Mangunkusomo hospital in establishing
the capacity to detect early HIV infections and laboratory diagnosis of AIDS. The project
would also increase accuracy and quality in most laboratories through training, provision
of educational materials, monitoring through visits and proficiency panels, and
development of standard procedures. In Jakarta (para. 3.8) and Riau (para. 3.12), as well
as in selected sites in Irian Jaya, the project would improve testing and diagnosis
capabilities not only in provincial level laboratories but in district level facilities. The
project would also make available retraining without cost and inclusion in quality
assurance prograrns to private laboratory staff. To accomplish the above, the items and
activities to be funded will include training and related costs; technical assistance;
purchase of reagents and equipment; and workshop and seminars.



- 27 -
3.19 Behavior change (US$3.1 million equivalent). The project would fund various
activities needed to support provincial level behavior change interventions. These would
include design of prototypes for needs assessments, preparation and pretesting of health
education materials, training of trainers and other forrns of training, technical assistance,
research, NGO capacity building, fellowships and a wide range of monitoring and
evaluation activities.
3.20  Research. As noted, the project would provide funds under different components
to support research on topics such as health provider attitudes and behavior; infection
control practices; infection patterns and health seeking behavior of those with STDs
and/or AIDS; guidelines and practices with respect to removal and disposal of
contaminated waste; the costs and cost effectiveness of behavioral and service delivery
interventions; modeling disease trends; quality of care in different facilities; the
commercial sex industry; and resistance to antibiotics used in treating STDs and the
opportunistic infections which attack those with AIDS. Prior to negotiations, agreement
was reached on the terms of reference and level of support required for research activities
to be carried out in the first year of project execution, and on the mechanisms through
which research proposals will be reviewed and funded.
3.21 Preparation areas (US$162,500 equivalent). The project would support needs
assessments, baseline surveys and other preparatory activities in areas designated for
possible follow-up STD and HIV interventions.
Project Management and Implementation
3.22  Project management, provincial level and below. The project would be executed
by local government authorities in Jakarta and Riau. In each province, the project would
be directed by the Assistant III for Social Welfare in the Regional Secretariat in his
capacity as Secretary to the Provincial AIDS Commission (PAC). The Project Manager
would be the head of the provincial office of MOH (Kakanwil). The Project Director and
Manager would be appointed by the Governor. Implementation of activities within the
health sector would be the responsibility of the head of the provincial health service
(Dinas), with technical support in health the responsibility of the Kakanwil. A key role
would be played by the PAC. This body is chaired by the Governor with members drawn
from government departments and NGOs. The PAC would set program priorities and
directions, coordinate interventions and management review results. The Project Director
and Manager and the PAC would be supported by an implementation unit (PIU) located
in the Dinas, tasked with carrying out program priorities agreed to by the PAC, tracking
activities and expenditures, and monitoring and evaluating various behavior change and
service delivery initiatives. The PIU would be headed by a unit Chief, and supported by
an Executive Secretary and other staff. At the district level, the bupati (chief district
official) or wali kota (mayor) will have overall responsibility for implementation.
District level health activities would be delegated to the head of the district or municipal
health office, while activities outside the health sector would be the responsibility of the
District (or Municipal) AIDS Coordinator. A PIU at the district level in Riau province



- 28 -
would be staffed by a full-time Secretary. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the governments of Jakarta and Riau provinces will maintain provincial
Project Directors and Managers and district Project Directors until the project is
completed Detailed terms of reference covering the roles, functions and staffing of
provincial and district project implementing units were also agreed at negotiations.
3.23  Project management. central level. At the center, the project would be headed by
the Director General (DG) of Communicable Disease Control and Environmental Health
(CDC/EH). The Project Director would be advised by a Steering Committe chaired by
MOH's Secretary General, with members drawn from MOH, Bappenas, Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Human Affairs (Annex 5). In light of the new challenges
posed by HIV/AIDS to MOH, the project would support the establishment within
CDC/EH of a special unit, called the HIV/AIDS and STDs Program Management Unit
(PMU, see Annex 5). The head of this unit would report directly to the DG for CDC/EH.
The unit would be responsible for planning, coordinating and monitoring and evaluating
all HIV/AIDS and STD-related work within MOH, for providing technical support to
provinces and districts, and for facilitating MOH's links with and support for the NAC.
In addition to the Bank-supported project, the unit would also be responsible for all other
donor assisted activities in MOH related to STDs and HIV/AIDS. This unit would consist
of technical support, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and administration subunits.
Staff in the unit would be appointed, hired or seconded from other units in MOH, and
would include individuals with expertise on surveillance, NGOs, monitoring and
evaluation, and information and communications. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the government will maintain within MOH a Project Director who shall be
the Director General of Communicable Diseases and Environmental Health, a Project
Manager who shall be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project, and an
HIVIA IDS and STDs Program Management Unit of agreed size and skill mix. The role,
functions and terms of reference of the Program Management Unit were also agreed at
negotiations.
3.24  NGOs. A defining feature of the project is the role of NGOs in different aspects
of implementation. NGOs are expected to be actively involved in the deliberations and
decisions of the PACs. In addition, individual NGOs will be contracted to carry out
various behavior change, service delivery, training and monitoring and evaluation
activities as well as operational studies. For specified tasks, NGOs with known expertise
will be asked by provincial authorities to submit proposals. Funds are earmarked in the
project to procure training services and instructional materials supplied by NGOs. NGOs
will have a further option of submitting unsolicited proposals to carry out STD and
HIV/AIDS related activities including studies. An NGO grant fund of US$566,300 is
included for that purpose within the Jakarta component. Proposals will be evaluated
according to technical, management and financial criteria, with submissions to be
assessed by review panels established and managed by the PIU; these panels would
include NGO representatives. At the request of such panels, the PIU could assist in
refining promising proposals, including strengthening the monitoring and evaluation
components. In addition, the project will finance other capacity building measures



- 29 -
directed at smaller NGOs some of which have strong ties to particular groups of interest.
These typically recently established NGOs may not have the experience and financial
resources needed to submit full-dress proposals and bids, and/or may not have complied
with all registration steps and procedures. Capacity building measures may include
needs assessments, financial and organizational audits, orientation and training
opportunities, quarterly review meetings between NGOs and MOH officials, technical
assistance, joint NGO-MOH training activities and workshops, seconding MOH staff to
NGOs, pairing or mentoring arrangements linking established and emerging
organizations, and endowing a larger NGO with limited grant making authority and
resources. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the process of selecting and
coniracting with NGOs under different project components, including but not limited to
the NGO fund, will be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Also at
negotiations, GOlpresented guidelines and supporting legal documents defining the
mechanisms to be used within the project to ensure the fullest possible use of NGO.
3.25  Channeling of funds. Loan funds would be channeled through development
budget (DIP) allocations at the central, provincial and district levels. The central level
health DIP would be employed for various MOH units involved in the project. Money
for project activities within the health sector in Jakarta and Riau would flow through the
provincial and district health department DIPs. Funds for activities normally outside the
purview of the health department would initially be transferred through a provincial
health department DIP which would be assigned to support activities carried out by other
departments and NGOs. During the course of project implementation it is expected that
the latter arrangements will be superceded by decisions creating new mechanisms for
channeling funds to local governments.
3.26  Technical assistance. The project would support modest amounts of international
and local technical assistance, concentrated in the first eighteen months of
implementation (Annex 6). International technical expertise, estimated at 37 person
months, would be directed at the development of the syndromic diagnosis/treatment and
surveillance components, design of evaluation and research activities, and preparation of
training and quality assurance materials. Local technical assistance of 1 12 person months
would be used to elaborate training modules and supervise and assess training programs,
develop testing procedures, improve planning and management capacity in NGOs, and
carry out needs assessments and other tasks.
3.27  Performance evaluation and supervision strategy. Monitoring and evaluation have
a central place in this pilot project-- the aim of the project is to test and assess a range of
behavioral and service delivery interventions. Accordingly, monitoring and evaluation
steps were built into each activity and budget, and various input and process indicators
will be used to monitor implementation of different components (Annex 4). Moreover,
agreement was reached at negotiations on the indicators which would be used to assess
project performance (para. 3.2 and Table 3.1: Designated Performance Indicators).
Annual performance reviews and plans for the project's behavior change, service delivery
and surveillance interventions will be the key vehicles for project evaluation and
supervision. Preparation of reviews will be the responsibility of each province's PIU,



- 30 -
using monitoring and evaluation data collected routinely as part of each intervention and
focusing in particular on the agreed performance indicators. The central HIV/AIDS and
STDs Program Management Unit will employ a full-time evaluation specialist, supported
by technical assistance. The evaluation specialist will be expected to develop and
disseminate a monitoring and evaluation plan, covering measurement of indicators,
generation of data and feedback for use of findings by project managers, and feeding into
the annual performance plan and midterm review. This specialist will liaise with
evaluation staff at NAC and take responsibility for overseeing evaluation of all activities
within the central component. The central specialist will also work closely, in a
technical oversight role, with evaluation staff assigned to provincial and district
management units. Evaluation personnel at those levels will develop evaluation plans for
project activities taken up in each local component. The project will also fund visits by
technical specialists with expertise in behavior change, service delivery and surveillance.
3.28  The Bank will conduct periodic reviews of project implementation and impact
whose timing will be linked to specific activities, the preparation of annual plans and the
availability of key indicators and findings. A detailed supervision plan is presented in
Annex 7.



- 31 -
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Costs
4.1    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$35.2 million equivalent (Rp. 79.1
billion), including contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties. Tables 4.1 and 4.2
summarize the estimated costs by provincial and central components, and project activity
and expenditure category. Detailed project costs by year, purpose and components are
given in Annex 8.
Table 4.1a: Summary of Project Costs by Component by Province (USS million)
Component                               Jakarta      Riau    Center      Total
IEC & Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                            1.0       0.3       0.4        1.7
Workplace                                   0.2       0.3       0.4        0.9
SchoolUniversity                            0.6       0.5       0.4        1.5
Community & General Public                  0.5       0.6       0.3        1.4
Health Providers                            1.8       0.5       0.4        2.7
Other Support Activities                    0.2       0.4        1.2       1.8
Subtotal                                  4.3       2.6        3.1      10.0
Biomedical Services
Protection of Blood Supply                            0.5                  0.5
STD and IIIV/AIDS Services                  3.0       2.6       1.5        7.1
STD and HIV/AIDS Surveillance               0.7       0.4       2.9       4.0
Laboratory Services                         0.1       0.5       6.0        6.6
Subtotal                                  3.8       4.0       10.4      18.2
Management & Support
STD/AIDS Management                                   0.2       0.6       0.8
Future Project Preparation                                      0.2        0.2
Project Management                          0.8       0.5       0.7       2.0
Subtotal                                  0.8       0.7        1.5       3.0
Total Base Costs                          8.9       7.3       15.0      31.2
Physical Contingencies                       0.4       0.4       0.8        1.6
Price Contingencies                          0.8       0.6        1.0       2.4
Total Project Costsl0                    10.1       83        16.8      35.2
% of Total Project Costs                    290%      23%       48%      100%/e
10 Includes identifiable duties and taxes of USSI.5 million equivalent.



- 32 -
Table 4.1b: Project Cost Summary
%      % Ttal
(Rps. '000)                          (USS '000)              Foreip     Bae
Local      Foreign        Total       Local      Foreign     Total    Esicap    Cas
A. Jakarta
1. IEC & Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                   1.975,152.4    344,251.6   2,319,404.0     879.4       153.3    1,032.7        15         3
Workplace                           352,095.0     53,805.0     405,900.0      156.8        24.0      180.7        13          1
School/University                  1,156,762.0    180,458.0   1,337,220.0     515.0        80.3     595.4         13         2
Community & General Public          961,046.4     122,505.6   1,083,552.0     427.9        54.5     482.4         11         2
Health Providers                   3,404,986.8   593,137.2   3,998,124.0    1,516.0       264.1    1,780.1        15         6
OtherSupport Activities             474,687.5      9,687.5     484,375.0      211.3         4.3     215.7          2          1
Subtotal IEC & Behavioral Interventions    8,324,730.1   1,303,844.9   9,628,575.0    3,706.5  580.5    4,287.0        14         14
2. Biomedical Services
STD andHIV/AIDSServices           6,241,777.0    574,290.0   6,816,067.0    2,779.1       255.7    3,034.8         8         10
Surveillance                        612,803.1    837,374.9   1,450,178.0      272.8       372.8     645.7         58         2
Laboratory Services                  89,480.1    268,520.0     358,000.2       39.8       119.6     159.4         75          1
Subtotal Biomedical Services            6,944,060.2   1,680,184.9   8,624,245.2    3,091.7     748.1    3,839.8        19         12
3. Management & Support
Project Management                 1,490,250.0    132,250.0   1,622,500.0     663.5        58.9     722.4          8         2
Subtotal Jakarta                        16,759,040.   3,116,279.8  19,875,320.2    7,461.7    1,387.5    8,849.2       16         28
B. Riau
1. IEC and Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                    670,584.0     106,176.0    776,760.0      298.6        47.3     345.8         14          1
Workplace                           602,313.6     83,590.4     685,904.0     268.2         37.2     305.4         12          1
School/University                   835,020.0     167,780.0    1,002,800.0   371.8         74.7     446.5         17          1
Comnmunity & General Public         969,111.2    324,904.8    1,294,016.0     431.5       144.7     576.1         25         2
Health Providers                   1,043,820.0    155,980.0    1,199,800.0    464.7        69.4     534.2         13         2
Other Support Activities            706,400.0    211,100.0     917,500.0      314.5        94.0     408.5         23          1
Subtota I[EC and Behavioral Interventions   4,827,248.8   1,049,531.2    5,876,780.0    2,149.3  467.3    2,616.6      18          8
2. Biomedical Services
Protection oftheBlood Supply        556,720.0    594,460.0    1,151,180.0     247.9       264.7     512.5         52         2
STDandHIV/AIDSServices            5,264,100.0    644,300.0   5,908,400.0    2,343.8       286.9    2,630.6        11         8
Surveillance                        562,500.0    318,300.0     880,800.0      250.4       141.7     392.2         36          1
Laboratory Services                 254,250.0    935,650.0   1,189,900.0      113.2       416.6     529.8         79         2
Subtotal Biomedical Services            6,637,570.0   2,492,710.0   9,130,280.0    2,955.3    1,109.8    4,065.1       27         13
3. Management & Support
STD/AIDS Management                 249,438.0     39,382.0     288,820.0      111.1        17.5      128.6        14          -
Project Management                  994,350.0    146,150.0   1,140,500.0      442.7        65.1     507.8         13         2
Subtotal Management & Support           1,243,788.0    185,532.0    1,429,320.0    553.8        82.6      636.4        13          2
Subtotal Riau                           12,708,606.   3,727,773.2   16,436,380.0    5,658.3   1,659.7    7,318.1       23         23
C. Center
1. IEC & Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                    711,681.9    259,578.0     971,259.9      316.9       115.6     432.4         27          1
Workplace                           609,581.9    246,678.0     856,259.9      271.4       109.8     381.2         29          1
SchooWUniversity                    609,581.9    246,678.0     856,259.9      271.4       109.8     381.2         29          1
Community & General Public          609,581.9    246,678.0     856,259.9      271.4       109.8     381.2         29          1
Health Providers                    586,631.9    244,128.0     830,759.9      261.2       108.7     369.9         29          1
Other Support Activities           1,393,640.0   1,251,960.0   2,645,600.0    620.5       557.4    1,177.9        47         4
Subtota IEC & Behavioral Interventions    4,520,699.7   2,495,699.9   7,016,399.5    2,012.8  1,111.2    3,124.0       36         10
2. Biomedical Services
STD and HIV/AlDS Services         2,084,060.8   1,287,203.2   3,371,264.0    927.9        573.1    1,501.0        38         5
Surveillance                      4,254,399.0   2,342,018.0   6,596,417.0    1,894.2    1,042.8    2,937.0        36         9
Laboratory Services                3,350,820.0  10,129,555.0  13,480,375.0    1,491.9   4,510.0    6,001.9        75        19
Subtotal Biomedical Services            9,689,279.8  13,758,776.2  23,448,056.0    4,314.0   6,125.9   10,439.9        59
3. Management and Support
STD/AIDS Management                1,159,500.0    195,500.0    1,355,000.0    516.3        87.0     603.3         14         2
Future Project Preparation          308,500.0     56,500.0     365,000.0      137.4        25.2     162.5         15         1
Project Management                 1,371,300.0    164,700.0   1,536,000.0     610.6        73.3     683.9         11         2
Subtotal Management and Support         2,839,300.0    416,700.0   3,256,000.0    1,264.2      185.5    1,449.7        13          5
Subtotal Center                        17,049,279.  16,671,176.1   33,720,455.5    7,591.0   7,422.6   15,013.6        49        48
Total BASELINE COSTS                   46,516,926.   23,515,229.1   70,032,155.7   20,711.0    10,469.8   31,180.8     34        100
Physical Contingencies            2,325,846.3   1,175,761.5   3,501,607.8    1,035.6      523.5    1,559.0        34         5
Price Contingencies               4,588,069.1    950,472.3   5,538,541.4    2,042.8       423.2    2,466.0        17         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                    53,430,842.  25,641,462.8  79,072,304.8   23,789.3    11,416.5   35,205.8       32        113



- 33 -
Table 4.2a: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditures by Province
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditures                                                  Jakarta                  Riau            Center                Total
Equipment                                                                        0.4                  0.6                2.1                3.1
Vehicles                                                                                              0.1                                   0.1
Technical Assistance &  Studies                                                  0.2                  0.2                2.7                3.1
IEC  Materials                                                                   0.8                  0.7                2.0                3.5
Reagents (Center)                                                                                                        3.9                3.9
Fellowships                                                                                           0.1                1.0                1.1
Training & Workshops                                                             5.0                  2.8                1.6                9.4
Grants                                                                           0.6                                                        0.6
Administrative Costs                                                             0.4                  0.6                0.9                 1.9
Recurrent Costs                                                                   1.5                 2.2                0.8                4.5
Total Base Costs                                                              8.9                 7.3              15.0               31.2
Physical Contingencies                                                           0.4                  0.4                0.8                 1.6
Price Contingencies                                                              0.8                  0.6                1.0                2.4
Total Project Costs                                                         10.1                  8.3               16.8              35.2
% of Total Project Costs                                                        29%                 23%                48%               100%
Table 4.2b: Project Cost Summary
%        % Total
(Rps. '000)                                (USS '000)              Foreign      Base
Local         Foreign         Total          Local       Foreign      Total    Exchange      Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                            1,417,110.6    5,668,442.4     7,035,553.0       630.9       2,523.8   3,154.7          S0         10
B. Vehicles                                20,000.0      180,000.0       200,000.0          8.9         80. 1     89.0          90           -
C. Technical Assistance & Studies
Foreign Consultants                  264,480.0    1,057,920.0      1,322,400.0       117.0        471.0     583.3          s0           2
Local Consultants                    950,108.3       50,005.7      1,000,114.0       423.0         22.3     445.3           5           1
Studies & Research                  3,647,140.0     911,785.0     4,558,925.0       1,623.0       406.0   2,029.8          20           7
S btotalTechnicalAssistance&            4,061,720.3    2,019,710.7     6,881,439.0      2,164.6        099.2   3,063.9         29          10
Studies
D. Instructional Materials              5,443,460.8    2,332,911.8     7,776,372.5      2,423.6      1,038.7   3,462.3         30          11
E. Reagents (Center)                    1,733,700.0    6,934,000.0     3,660,500.0       771.9       3,087.6   3,859.5         80          12
F. Fellowships
Overseas                                     -    2,445,000.0     2,445,000.0            -       1,080.6   1,088.6        100           3
Domestic                             162,000.0       18,000.0       180,000.0         72.1          8.0      80.1          10 0
Subtotal Fellowships                      162,000.0    2,463,000.0     2,625,000.0        72.1       1,096.6   1,168.7         94           4
G. Training & Workshops                18,910,379.9    2,102,042.2    21,020,422.2      8,423.1        935.9   9,359.0         10          30
H. Grants                               1,272,000.0             -      1,272,000.0       566.3             -     566.3           -          2
I. Adminisbttive Costs                  3,831,138.0     425,682.0      4,256,320.0      1,705.3        139.5   1,895.3         10           6
Total Investment Costs                    37,659,517.6   22,126,589.1    59,786,106.7     16,767.4      9,351.6  26,613.9         37          35
11. Recurrent Coab
A. Operations & Maintenance             1,138,002.0             -      1,133,002.0       506.7                   506.7           -          2
B. Supervision & Travel                 3,199,480.0             -      3,199,480.0      1,424.5            -   1,424.5           -          5
C. Supplies& Condoms                    4,172,767.0             -      4,172,767.0      1,857.9            -   1,357.9           -          6
D. Reagents (Provinces)                   347,160.0    1,308,640.0     1,735,800.0        154.6       618.3      772.8         S0           2
Total Recurrent Costs                      8,857,409.0    1,388,640.0    10,246,049.0      3,943.6       618.3   4,561.9          14          15
Total BASELINE COT5                       46,516,926.6   23,515,229.1    70,032,155.7     20,711.0     10,469.8  31,100.0         34         100
Physical Contingencies              2,325,846.3    1,175,761.5    3,501,607.0      1,035.6        523.5   1,559.0          34           5
PriceContingencies                  4,588,069.1     950,472.3     5,538,541.4      2,042.0        423.2   2,466.0          17           8
Total PROJECT COSTS                       53,430,342.0   25,641,462.8    79,072,304.8     23,739.3     11,416.5  35,205.8          32        113



-34 -
4.2    Base of Costs Estimates. Baseline costs are estimated at October 1995 prices.
Medical and office equipment, and vehicle costs are based on current prices for similar
imported or locally available items. Costs for international and domestic consultants are
in line with recent health projects for appropriately qualified experts. Operational costs
are consistent with current government practices and recent health projects. Costs for
short-term, in-country training vary depending on the type of training being given and
location. Recurrent costs are based on standard government allowances for travel, per
diem, O&M and consumable materials.
4.3    Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies represent 5 percent and price
contingencies 8 percent of total baseline costs. Physical contingencies have been allowed
for all categories, as actual expenditures for all project components are expected to differ
from current estimates.
4.4   Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$11.4
million (representing about 32 percent of total project costs) based on the following
percentages: (a) equipment--80 percent, (b) vehicles--90 percent, (c) instructional
materials-- 30 percent, (d) research and studies-- 20 percent; (e) drugs and reagents-- 80
percent, (f) international technical assistance-- 80 percent, (g) overseas fellowships-- 100
percent, (h) domestic consultants -- 5 percent; and (i) training, domestic studies, program
development expenditures, project management costs-- 10 percent.
4.5   Taxes and Duties. Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at US$1.5 million
(Rp. 3.5 billion). These would be financed entirely by the Government of Indonesia.
Financing
4.6   The total project cost of US$35.2 million would be financed by a proposed loan of
US$24.8 million equivalent, covering 70 percent of total project costs. The Government
would finance the remaining costs of US$10.4 million equivalent from annual budget
allocations. Government outlays would amount to 26 percent of total project costs
excluding taxes (Table 4.3).
4.7   Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$ 4.6 million equivalent). Incremental recurrent
costs are for office operating costs, travel and supervision and for consumables, including
reagents for Jakarta and Riau. These account for 15 percent of total base costs and 13%
of total project costs.
4.8   Indonesia is eligible for a single currency fixed rate loan. Total borrowing by
Indonesia under the single currency loan program including this loan, is projected to
amount to at most 50 percent of the expected FY96 Bank lending program for the
country.
4.9   The Borrower has selected a single currency loan in US dollars in order to better
manage its external liabilities, in view of i) the weight of US dollars in Indonesia's
foreign exchange receipts, and ii) the current high exposure to the Japanese yen. The



- 35 -
choice of a fixed interest rate reflects the Borrower's preference to manage its interest rate
risk in view of its current exposure to floating rate loans.
Procurement
4.10  The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement of goods and services
under all project components (see Table 4.4):
(a)   Equipment totaling US$3.4 million equivalent including contingencies.
Equipment will be handled by central, provincial and district levels
depending on where the goods are being delivered. Equipment contract
packages valued at or above US$200,000 equivalent would be awarded
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using the Bank
Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995. Locally manufactured goods would be granted a 15 percent
domestic margin of preference. Contract packages valued at less than
US$200,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.7 million
equivalent including taxes would be awarded through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contract
packages valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
limit of US$ 1.0 million equivalent including taxes, may be purchased
through national shopping on the basis of a minimum of three price
quotations.
(b)   Reagents for Central laboratories totaling US$4.3 million equivalent,
including contingencies. These materials would be purchased under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
(c)   Vehicle costs totaling US$0.1 million equivalent. The government of
Indonesia considers the procurement of vehicles as reserved procurement
and therefore Bank financing would not be used to purchased vehicles.
During negotiations, assurances were received that required vehicles will
be provided by the Government in accordance with an agreed upon
schedule.
(d)   Instructional materials totaling US$3.9 million equivalent including
contingencies. This would include printed manuals, guidelines, books,
teaching materials, standard medical forms, and video and media packages
procured and produced locally. Printing and other production services
would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) from
private printing firms by each provincial project managers and by the
central project managers. Already printed materials, up to an aggregate
limit of US$ 1.0 million equivalent, could be procured through national
shopping on the basis of a minimum of at least three competitive price
quotations, directly from publishers or distributors.



- 36 -
(e)   Consultant services, studies and research totaling about US$3.4 million
equivalent including contingencies, would be selected and contracted in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
(f)    Grants for NGOs totaling about US$0.7 million equivalent including
contingencies. Grants from this fund will be awarded by a Review Panel
that includes NGO representatives based on technical and other
considerations. Funding would be by Competitive Selection based on
invitation and submitted proposals, and National Shopping (with at least
three quotations). At negotiations, agreement was reached on the criteria
to be used in reviewing proposals and awarding grants and on
contracting procedures.
(g)   Overseas and in-country fellowships totaling US$1.3 million equivalent,
including contingencies. Placement of candidates in foreign institutions
would be made on the basis of relevance and quality of programs offered,
cost, and prior experience, according to government procedures acceptable
to the Bank. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that plans for use
offellowship funds will be presented annually for Bank review.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Expenditure Categories                      GOI   IBRD        Total % IBRD
Equipment                                     1.1      2.2      3.3     70%
Vehicles                                      0.1      0.0      0.1       0%
Instructional materials                       1.2      2.5      3.7     70%
Consultant services
Central consultants                       0.1       0.4      0.5     80%
Provincial consultants                    0.0       0.4      0.4    100%
Studies and Research                      0.0       2.4      2.4    100%
Grants                                        0.0      0.6      0.6    100%
Fellowships                                   0.0      1.2      1.2    100%
Training/workshops
NGO                                       0.0       5.6      5.6    100%
Others                                    3.2       1.4      4.6     30%
Project management                            0.0      2.1      2.1    100%
Reagents                                      0.0      4.3      4.3    100%
Recurrent costs                               4.7      0.0      4.7      0%
Unallocated                                   0.0      1.7      1.7
Total                                        10.4     24.8     35.2      70%



- 37 -
(h)   Training and workshops totaling US$10.7 million equivalent, including
contingencies, would be procured on the basis of relevance and quality of
the programs offered by government, private institutions and NGOs
according to government administrative procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
(i)   Project management totaling US$2.2 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Project management will include expenditures directly
related to the management of the project, such as travel, consumable
materials, honoraria, meetings, office supplies and operational costs, but
excludes salaries. The expenditures would follow government procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
(j)    Recurrent costs totaling about US$5.2 million equivalent including
contingencies. This would cover operations and maintenance, supervision
and travel expenses, and purchase of other supplies, including reagents and
condoms for provincial centers. The recurrent costs would be financed by
the government.
Procurement Review
4.11  Review by the Bank would be as follows (see Annex 10):
(a)   On receipt from the borrower, the Bank will review (i) bidding documents
(SBD, Januarv, 1995) for goods to be awarded under ICB procedures, (ii)
letters of invitation, terms of reference and other relevant information for
consultants, to ascertain their conformity with the Bank guidelines and
standard form of contract published in June 1995, (iii) standard bidding
documents for national competitive bidding (NCB) procurement for
goods. Approved documents would be used for all future bidding.
Roughly 59 percent of goods purchased through the project will be subject
to prior review. The relatively low proportion covered by prior review is
due to the large number of contracts expected to cover small amounts;
many of these contracts will be the responsibility of district
implementation units.
(b)   All contracts for goods valued at or over US$200,000 equivalent and the
first two contracts for goods in each of the two Project provinces estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 would be subject to prior
review by the Bank, whereas all other contracts for goods would be
subject to post review, and the resident mission (RSI) and supervision
missions would carry out the review.
(c)   All individual consultant contracts including those for NGOs valued at or
over US$50,000 equivalent and contracts for consulting firms valued at
over US$ 100,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank.



- 38 -
All other consultant contracts would be subject to random post review.
The terms of reference and single source selection would be subject to
prior review.
(d)   Overseas fellowships would be subject to random post review by the Bank
Beginning in 1996, the plans for each year would be submitted to the Bank
for review and approval.
(e)   Beginning in 1996, central andprovincial training and workshop plans
for each year would be submitted to the Bankfor review and approval by
December 31 for the forthcoming year.



- 39 -
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Category of Expenditure                  Procurement Procedures
ICB   NCB   Other/a  N.B.F./b          Total Cost
(including cont.)
Equipment                               0.7     1.7      1.0                        3.4
(0.7)   (1.7)    (0.6)                      (3.0)
Reagents (Center)                       4.3                                         4.3
(4.3)                                       (4.3)
Vehicles                                                           0.1              0.1
(0.0)            (0.0)
Consultants Services & Studies
Consultants                                             1.0                        1.0
(0.9)                     (0.9)
Studies                                                 2.4                       2.4
(2.4)                     (2.4)
Instructional Materials                        2.9       1.0                        3.9
(2.0)    (0.7)                      (2.7)
Grants                                         0.2       0.5                        0.7
(0.2)    (0.5)                      (0.7)
Fellowships                                              1.3                        1.3
(1.3)                     (1.3)
Training & Workshops
NGOs                                                    5.8                        5.8
(5.8)                      (5.8)
Others                                                  4.9                       4.9
(1.5)                      (1.5)
Project Management                                       2.2                        2.2
(2.2)                      (2.2)
Recurrent Costs                                                    5.2              5.2
(0.0)            (0.0)
Total                                   5.0    4.8      20.1       5.3             35.2
(5.0)   (3.9)    (15.9)    (0.0)           (24.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
a/ Includes national shopping and hiring of consultants.
b/ Not Bank financed.



-40 -
Disbursement
4.12 The proposed loan of US$24.8 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of three years (Annex 9). The project's closing date is September 30, 1999.
4.13 Disbursements would be made as follows:
Amount       % of Expenditures
(US$ million)   To Be Financed
Equipment                         2.2        100% of foreign expenditures
(excluding vehicles)                         100% of local (ex-factory)
65% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Reagents                          4.3        100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local (ex-factory)
65% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Instructional Materials           2.5        70% of total expenditures
Fellowships                        1.2       100% of total expenditures
Training & Workshops
NGOs                              5.6       100% of total expenditures
Other                            1.4       30% of total expenditures
Grants                            0.6        100% of grant amount disbursed
Project Management                2.1        100% of total expenditures
Consultant's Services
Consultants
Central                       0.4       80%
Provincial                    0.4       100%
Studies, Research                2.4       100% of total expenditures
Unallocated                        1.7
Total                            24.8



- 41 -
4.14 Disbursements from the loan for the following contracts would be against full
documnentation: (a) goods contracts valued at or more than US$200,000 equivalent; and
(b) consultant services (for firms) contracts valued at or more than US$ 100,000
equivalent; and (c) individual contracts valued at or more than $50,000 equivalent. All
other disbursements would be against statements of expenditure (SOE) for which relevant
documents would be retained by responsible agencies and made available for review as
requested by visiting Bank missions. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account in an
amount of US$2.4 million would be established at Bank Indonesia. This Special Account
would be held in the name of the Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance,
following established procedures. The Special Account would be used for all eligible
foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment to the Special Account would be made on
the monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever
occurs first.
Accounts, Audits and Reports
4.15  MOH would establish project accounts for all project expenditures at both the
provincial and central levels, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting
practices. Accounts for the SOEs and Special Account would be maintained separately
for annual audits. Each provincial PIU would send financial statements for all project
expenditures for each fiscal year to the Central Management Unit. The Central
Management Unit would consolidate the two provincial financial statements with the
central level financial statement and prepare a consolidated financial report. The
financial statements and consolidated financial reports would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, including a separate audit opinion on SOE expenditures.
Certified copies of the financial report on the project for each Government fiscal year,
together with the auditors' statements, would be furnished to the Bank as soon as
available, but not later than six months after the end of each government fiscal year
starting September 30, 1997. MOH would also monitor progress in project
implementation and report to the Bank each semester on this progress. Within six months
after the completion of disbursement, the Ministry would submit an implementation
completion report (ICR) to the Bank.



-42 -



- 43 -
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Program Goals and Potential Benefits
5.1   HIV is spreading in Indonesia, and the disease will be part of the country's health
picture for many years. However, the development and replication of effective
interventions can slow the rate of transmission and lessen significantly the cumulative
impact of HIV/AIDS and related health problems. An early, effective effort to prevent
HIV transmission would save many lives. As an illustration, the iwg-AIDS projection
model predicts 8500 new AIDS cases (deaths) in Jakarta in 2005 and 17,500 in 2010, and
cumulative figures for AIDS of 55,000 by 2005 and 123,000 by 2010 (Annex 1 1). New
and cumulative figures for HIV infections are even larger. Jakarta province would spend
US$8.8 million under the present project to slow the transmission of HIV and reduce the
number of deaths attributable to AIDS. I IAt issue is whether the likely impact of the
project in terms of deaths averted justifies the proposed level of spending.
5.2   Like other health system interventions, this operation can be assessed, with some
modifications, according to accepted principles of project analysis. Modifications are
needed because this initiative will not finance interventions, such as a dam or a bridge, of
known design specifications and inputs and predictable costs, construction and start-up
phases, and whose consequences can be estimated with some confidence. Instead, this
project will sponsor, fund and direct an entire "portfolio" of experimental measures in
the two provinces. Many of these trial activities have not been fully identified, and there
will be quite a few which fail or need to be modified extensively. Due to these features,
project analysis must take account of (i) the ultimate impacts on behavior change in key
respects and on whether there is a reduction in the number of new STD and HIV cases
(incidence) which is reported, and also (ii) how long it takes to determine which
approaches seem most promising and to assemble these into coherent, sustainable
provincial programs. Taking into account these two dimensions of efficiency, i.e.,
ultimate impacts on behavior and timely and efficient trialing and related processing
steps, various outcome scenarios can be used to identify different levels of project
achievement and associated benefits and costs.
5.3   This approach can be illustrated again using Jakarta as an example. As
mentioned, the baseline projection developed using the iwg-AIDS model predicts a
cumulative total of 55,000 AIDS cases in Jakarta by 2005 and 123,000 by 2010. The
second scenario (Annex 11, Tables 1, 2 and 5 and Figures 1-2) depicts the course of the
In addition, an estimated outlay of US$2 million under the central component would support activities in
Jakarta.



- 44 -
epidemic assuming that interventions begin in January 1997 and achieve frll impact
within three years. This scenario, which results in 5000 fewer AIDS cases by 2005 and
22,500 fewer cases by 2010, is based on conservative assumptions about the impact of
the project on risky behavior. Specifically, the project is expected to result in a 25
percent reduction in the incidence of STDs and in risky sexual behavior, and a 25 percent
increase in the use of condoms. In this scenario, the present value of cumulative project-
related savings in direct treatment costs in Jakarta would amount to US$6.3 million for
2005 and US$19.2 million for 2010. There would also be substantial, cumulative indirect
economic benefits by 2005 and 2010. The net present value of the overall outlays and
benefits in this illustrative calculation amounts to US$140 million for 2005 and US$551
million for 2010. In short, the project as depicted in scenario two appears to be
economically justified. Moreover, the calculations exclude such project benefits as
reduced morbidity and death from a long neglected category of health problems, STDs.
Risks
5.4   Several risks arise in designing public policy in response to an unprecedented
health challenge like AIDS. First, the disease is complex and difficult to detect and react
to. On the one hand, the current extent and potential for rapid transmission of HIV may
have been exaggerated. For this reason, the government is well advised to invest initially
in improving surveillance and laboratory testing facilities, and in pilot projects in areas of
known incidence. On the other hand, HIV could spread so rapidly that public and private
response mechanisms prove inadequate. Here, the government's proposed steps through
the current project are also appropriate since surveillance, laboratory testing and locally
tailored, pilot initiatives will be key elements in an eventual Indonesian response, as they
have been in other settings, e.g., Australia and the USA, where some success has been
recorded in limiting transmission. A second risk relates to possible difficulties in
reaching and persuading different audiences, including groups which are not part of the
social mainstream, to modify what has hitherto been a very private aspect of behavior.
This risk includes a potentially reluctant or even critical reception from mainstream
religious leaders, and an inability to communicate with and extend program activities to
groups practicing risky behavior. This eventuality which is anticipated in GOI's broad
approach towards AIDS (and reflected in the Presidential Decree on AIDS), will be
addressed in the current project through unobtrusive coalition building, quiet persuasion
and involvement of key opinion leaders, and reliance on NGOs in reaching out to target
groups. This points to a third risk, that of overburdening small, recently forned NGOs.
This latter risk will be overcome through use of pilot initiatives, capacity building steps,
careful monitoring and evaluation and phased expansion in light of demonstrated NGO
capabilities. A fourth risk is that HIV initiatives will overwhelm GOI's policies towards
other health problems--this contingency can and should be avoided by integrating
HIV/AIDS diagnosis and treatment with high priority reproductive health and child
survival activities and with ongoing efforts to upgrade service quality in health centers
and hospitals. Moreover, this risk is more likely to eventuate if program efforts are
delayed.



- 45 -
Sensitivity Analysis
5.5   The implications of several of the risk factors just discussed were assessed
through sensitivity analysis. Specifically, scenarios were developed in which the project
takes longer, possibly because of different risk factors cited above, to become fully
effective, and in which project impact is not only delayed but of lower magnitude (Annex
11, Tables 1,2, and 5 and Figures 1-2). Scenario three, in which the project takes five
years to become fully effective, results in 3500 averted AIDS cases by 2005 and 13,000
by 2010; taking account of direct and indirect savings (benefits, excluding those relating
to STD treatment) and outlays, the net present value of the project in this scenario is
US$96 million and US$314 million in the two years respectively. Scenario four, which
involves delayed and lessened effectiveness, results in 1000 averted AIDS cases by 2005
and 5000 averted cases by 2010. The net present value of the project in the latter case is
US$20 million by 2005 and US$114 million by 2010. In short, estimated benefits far
exceed expenditures even under assumptions of delayed and reduced project
effectiveness. The net present value of the project is also very high even when highly
conservative assumptions are made about the present extent and likely spread of HIV in
Jakarta; this eventuality corresponds to the first risk discussed above. Specifically, this
latter set of scenarios (Annex 1 1, Tables 3,4 and 6) builds in considerably lower rates of
sexual activity and casual sex. Despite such stringent and unrealistic premises, the
project appears to be economically justifiable, even when the impact of interventions is
phased in over five years and at reduced effectiveness, and when a higher (ten percent)
discount rate is used. Moreover, the project retains its economic rationale even when
direct and indirect benefits per case are reduced by 50 percent (Annex 11, Table 6).
Environmental Impact
5.6   Safe disposal of waste materials, including contaminated blood, bandages and
needles, generated in different facilities is always an issue in communicable disease
efforts, and of special concern as regards HIV. Accordingly, appropriate guidelines and
practices with respect to protecting patients and health workers, removing and disposing
of hazardous materials will be fostered during project implementation. Included in this
project is a study of waste disposal procedures and practices in government health
facilities. Current WHO guidelines will provide a point of departure for this study.
Implications for Women
5.7   This project addresses important health risks and problems for a vulnerable group
in Indonesian society which is largely female, commercial sex workers. The project will
also draw attention to the underreporting of HIV and STD prevalence, especially among
women, and will include initiatives to reduce transmission of HIV and STDs from brothel
clients to their wives and to improve diagnosis and treatment for infected women.



- 46 -
Poverty Impact
5.8   The project promises to have a small but favorable impact on the incidence of
poverty by reducing transmission of HIV to low income individuals. The poor are
especially exposed because they have less access to accurate information on the nature of
this disease, behavior which is risky, and ways of avoiding infection. Not only are low
income individuals more susceptible to HIV, their families are usually less able to absorb
the losses of income and treatment costs associated with AIDS. Indeed, poorer
households may have to liquidate assets and adopt other coping strategies, resulting in a
permanent reduction in income earning potential and a threat to the economic viability of
the unit.
Sustainability
5.9   The raison d'etre of this project is to identify cost effective and sustainable
interventions to slow transmission of HIV and STDs in Indonesia. This objective is
addressed through a number of features of project design. These include: the emphasis
on monitoring and evaluation in all components and activities; the delegation of planning,
institutional development and operational decision making in the pilot provinces to local
government officials; the assignment of responsibilities for priority setting, review of
results and coordination to local AIDS Commissions with wide representation; extensive
involvement of NGOs in all dimensions of the project; and the large share of project
expenditures allocated to one-time outlays, e.g., training, laboratory upgrading, and mass
media campaigns, which will not need to be funded at similar levels in later years. The
above aspects are conducive to the emergence by the end of the project of locally owned,
pilot-tested interventions which are affordable and sustainable.



- 47 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   Prior to negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a)   a program of coordinated planning and implementation of sentinel and
passive (routine) surveillance activities within MOH (para. 3.17);
(b)   the terms of reference and level of support required for research activities
to be carried out in the first year of project execution, and on the
mechanisms through which research proposals will be reviewed and
funded (para. 3.20); and
(c)   the indicators to be used to measure performance in respect of the project's
proximate objectives (para. 3.2).
6.2   During negotiations, GOI provided assurances that:
(a)   the governments of Jakarta and Riau provinces will maintain the
provincial Project Directors and Managers and district Project Directors
until the project is completed. Detailed terms of reference covering the
roles, functions and staffing of the Project Implementing Units were also
agreed at negotiations (para. 3.22).
(b)   the government will maintain within MOH a Project Director who shall be
the Director General of Communicable Diseases and Environmental
Health, a Project Mlanager who shall be responsible for day-to-day
implementation of the Project, and a HIV/AIDS and STDs Program
Management Uniit of ag,eud size and skill mix. The role, functions and
terms of reference of the Program Management Unit were also agreed at
negotiations (para. 3.23).
(c)   the process of selecting and contracting with NGOs, including but not
limited to the NGO grant fund, will be on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Regarding the NGO grant fund, agreement was reached
during negotiations on the criteria to be used in reviewing proposals and
making grants and on contracting procedures (para. 4. 10). Also during
negotiations, GOI presented guidelines and supporting legal documents
defining the mechanisms to be used within the project to ensure the fullest
possible use of NGOs (para. 3.24).



- 48 -
(d)   the vehicles required for the project will be supplied according to an
agreed schedule (para. 4.10).
(e)   beginning in 1996, central and provincial plans for training activities,
workshops and use of fellowship funds will be presented annually to the
Bank by December 31 in each year for review and approval (para. 4.11).
(f)   agreed indicators would be used to assess project performance (para. 3.2
and Table 3.1).
6.3   Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$24.8 million to the Republic of Indonesia under the standard amortization term,
grace period and interest rate for fixed rate US dollar, single currency loans with an
expected disbursement period of three to six years.



- 49 -
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bloom, David E. and Sherry Glied. 1992. "Who Is Bearing the Cost of the AIDS
Epidemic in Asia."
Blowfield, Michael. 1992. "The Commercial Sex Industry in Surabaya, Indonesia: An
Ethnographic Study." Edited by Michael Linnan and Tom Reis.
Chen, Lincoln C., Jaime Sepulveda Amor and Sheldon J. Segal, eds. 1991a.
"Epidemiological Synergy: Interrelationships Between HIV Infection and Other
STDs." In Judith N. Wasserheit, eds., AIDS and Women's Reproductive Health
New York: Plenum Press.
------. 1991b. "The Public Health Significance of Sexually Transmitted Diseases for
HIV Infection in Africa." In Seth Berkley, eds., AIDS and Women's
Reproductive Health New York: Plenum Press.
Grosskurth, Heiner, Frank Mosha, James Todd, Ezra Mwijarubi, Arnoud Klokke,
Kesheni Senkoro, Philippe Mayaud, John Changalucha, Angus Nicoll, Gina ka-
Gina, James Newell, Kokugonza Mugeye, David Mabey and Richard Hayes.
1995. "Impact of improved treatment of sexually transmitted diseases on HIV
infection in rural Tanzania: randomized controlled trial." The Lance 346:530-
536.
Indonesia, Minister of People's Welfare and Chair of the Indonesian National AIDS
Commission. 1994. Indonesia National AIDS Strategy. Ministry of People's
Welfare and Indonesian National AIDS Commission, Indonesia.
Indonesia, Minister of People's Welfare. 1994. The President of the Republic ot
Indonesia Presidential Decree on AIDS Prevention and Control Commission.
Ministry of People's Welfare, Indonesia.
Jones, Gavin W., Endang Sulistyaningsih and Terence H. Hull. 1994. "Prostitution in
Indonesia."
Kosen, Soewarta and Michael Linnan. 1994. "Projection of HIV/AIDS in Indonesia
(1990-2005)." Paper presented at the 7th International Congress of the World
Federation of Public Health Associations, December 4-8. Bali, Indonesia.



- 50-
Lamboray, Jean-Louis and A. Edward Elmendorf. 1992. "Combatting AIDS and Other
Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Africa - A Review of the World Bank's Agenda
for Action." Discussion Paper 181. World Bank, Africa Technical Departnent,
Washington, D.C.
Linnan, M., M. Kestari and A. Kambodji. 1995. "Adult Sexual Behavior and Other Risk
Behaviors in East Java - Behavioral surveys from urban, periurban and rural areas
of East Java. Yayasan Prospectiv, Surabaya.
Linnan, Michael and The Surabaya STD Study Group. 1995. "Summary Report of the
STD Studies in Surabaya, East Java."
Over, Mead and Peter Piot. 1991. "Health Sector Priorities Review: HIV Infection and
Sexually Transmitted Diseases." Health Sector Priorities Review 26. World
Bank, Population and Human Resources Department, Washington, D.C.
Prescott, Nicholas. 1995. "Economic Analysis of Antiretroviral Policy Options in
Thailand." Paper presented at the Third International Conference on AIDS in
Asia and the Pacific Satellite Session on Rational Use of Antiretrovirals,
September 21. Chiang Mai, Thailand.
Scitovsky, Anne A. and Mead Over. 1988. "AIDS: costs of care in the developed and
the developing world." AIDS 2(suppl 1):S71 -S81.
Sittitrai, Werasit and Tim Brown. 1994. "Risk factors for HIV infection in Thailand."
AIDS. 8(suppl 2):S143-S153.
Ungphakorn, Jon and Werasit Sittitrai. 1994. "The Thai response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic." AIDS 8(suppl2):S155-S163.
World Bank. 1994. Indonesia Environment and Development. Washington, D.C.



- 51 -
ANNEXES



- 52 -



- 53 -                       ANNEX I
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Components of the Costs of Diagnosing and Treating IiV/AIDS in Indonesia
Services provided    User as a   Full cost  Number of    Full cost
(units)      percentage     per unit    units per     per case
of full cost    (1995, in     case    (1995, in
USD)                     USD)
PUBIC HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
Tests:
ELISA                    100          6-9           1          6-9
Western Blot             100      36.7-40           1      36.7-40
Consultation/visit        30        0.4-2       15-25         6-50
Drugs                     50        20-67       15-25    300-1,675
Hospital (day)            35         7-45       20-25    140-1,125
PUBIC HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
Tests:
ELISA                    100         8-10           1         8-10
Western Blot             100      40-42.5           1      40-42.5
Consultation/visit       100        11-15       15-20      165-300
Drugs                    100     40-133.5       15-20    600-2,670
Hospital (day)           100     20-128.5       20-25  400-3,212.5
Note: Data obtained from consultation with Cipto Mangunkusomo Hospital.



- 54 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 2: The Cost of Drug Therapies to Treat Opportunistic Infections Associated
with AIDS in Indonesia
Proportion of                         Number of        Total drug cost
Infection               AIDS patients   Drug                    Episodes      per course/ month
affected (%)                                              (USD)
Oral candidiasis             83         Fluconazole or             3               63.00
Ketoconazole or                            14.70
Itraconazole                               18.00
Esophagus                    80         Fluconazole or             3              135.00
candidiasis                             Ketoconazole or                            29.40
Itraconazole                               36.00
Brain                        25         Pyrimethamine &            1                7.10
toxoplamosis                            Sulfadiazine                               11.30
Retinitis                    33         Acyclovir                  2               35.55
cytomegalovirus
Pneumonia                    50         Co-trimoxazole or          1               22.60
Amoxicillin                                40.90
Broncho-                     19         Co-trimoxazole or          2               22.60
pneumonia                               Amoxicillin                                48.00
Tuberculosis,                58        INH                         1                0.74
lung                                    Ethambutol                                 12.90
Rifampicin                                 31.50
Tuberculosis,                44        INH                         1                0.74
lymphadentitis                          Ethambutol                                 12.90
Rifamnpicin                                31.50
Tuberculosis,                3          INH                        1                0.74
meningitis                              Streptomycin                               10.90
Kaposi Sarcoma               8          symptomatic                I
treatement
Scabies                      3          Lindan 1%                  3
usnic acid 1% or                            0.40
Pemethrin                                   3.00
Aspergillosis,               3          Corticisteriods            1                0.68
lung                                    Amphotericin B                             68.50
Mycosis,                     3          Chlorambucil or            1               54.00
lung                                    Cyclophosphamide                           45.00
Hepatitis A,B,C              11         Methisoprinol              1              116.25
Herpes                       3          Acyclovir                  1               49.50
Cryptosporidiosis            3          Ampicillin                 1               40.90
Amoxicillin                                48.00
Efusion of                   8          Co-trimoxazole             1               22.60
cardial/pericardial
Source:    Cases administered in Cipto Mangunkusomo Hospital, Jakarta, 1990-1995.



-55-                          ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
HIVIAIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND NIANAGEMENT PROJECT
THE SYNDROMIC APPROACH TO STD DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT
1.    The syndromic approach to STD diagnosis and treatment is designed to provide
STD treatment services where laboratory confirmation is neither possible nor available.
It is premised on the assumption that certain symptoms associated with STDs are the
result of a limited number of conditions, and the appropriate medications to treat those
conditions are known for a certain geographic locale. Combined with a system of partner
referral and treatment, the syndromic approach can increase access to treatment for both
symptomatic and asymptomatic STDs, reduce the duration of infectiousness and result in
a reduced prevalence of STDs in the general population.
2.    For example, urethritis in males is usually accompanied by a discharge, and in
many developing countries, the vast majority of discharges are due to gonorrhoea or
chlamydia. Therefore, if a male presents to a clinic with a urethral discharge, he is given
drugs for both gonorrhoea and chlamydia, and told to return in a week if his symptoms do
not improve. If he does return with no improvement, he is given either second-line
drugs, or referred to a specialist who will then institute a laboratory test.
3.    Through the use of procedural flow charts (algorithms), personnel at primary
health care centres are trained to recognise a small number of syndromes -- urethritis,
vaginitis, cervicitis, pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) and genital ulcer, and dispense
appropriate medication. It has been shown that this approach results in the successful
treatment of most of the symptomatic STDs that present at PHC centres, with only a
minority of cases requiring referral to specialist and laboratory services.
4.    However, the syndromic approach involves more than diagnosis. Ideally, clients
who have been diagnosed with STDs should receive treatment at the same time, and there
are arguments that in order to achieve a high rate of compliance, drugs should be
available at the clinic. One dose of a drug taken under supervision at the clinic would
ensure 100% compliance, but some conditions require seven-fourteen days of antibiotics.
However, receiving at least the first dose of medication at the clinic would improve
compliance as compared to giving the client a prescription.
5.    Secondly, clients should be counselled on the importance of informing their
contacts, many of whom may be asymptomatic, and trying to convince them to come for
treatment. Besides the importance of partner referral and strategies for assisting in this,
counselling should also include messages and information about how STDs are
contracted and how to prevent them, including information on condoms and how to use
them.



- 56 -                        ANNEX 2
6.    Therefore, the syndromic approach is more than simply a tool for diagnosis and
treatment in the absence of a laboratory, but a co-ordinated programme for diagnosis,
treatment and counselling towards partner referral and prevention. As such, it is based on
several assumptions and preconditions which complicate its implementation and add to
its expense:
7.    Knowledge about the relative prevalence of STDs in an area, the anti-microbial
sensitivity patterns, and the recommendations for first and second-line drugs. This
requires baseline research before the commencement of the programme, and also periodic
monitoring and surveillance to determine changes in anti-microbial sensitivity. It also
requires both the availability and the affordability of the recommended drugs, either at the
clinics or through local pharmacists.
8.    Health workers trained in the svndromic approach. Health workers who are
seeing clients with STDs need to be trained in the syndromic approach. A properly
designed training programme will involve training not only in the use of the flow charts
or algorithms, but also training in counselling and communication skills in order to help
health workers to transmit the desired messages and to break down their own prejudices
about people with STDs. Ideally, training should also include practical supervision at an
STD clinic, and it has been found that a four-five day training course is the necessary
minimum. Training courses must be designed to include all health workers who may see
STD clients -- doctors, nurses, medical assistants, and pharmacists (in those countries
where people tend to self-medicate and go directly to chemists when symptoms appear).
Special training courses have also been designed for supervisors in clinics where a large
volume of STDs are seen.
9.    Sufficient personnel to deal with the workload. It will be seen that a properly
implemented syndromic approach will require more time than is usually allotted to PHC
clients -- besides the time required for diagnosis and treatment (a physical examination
including an internal speculum exam for women is necessary), time is needed for
counselling. Some clinics may assign a separate person for the counselling, who may be
the same person who provides counselling messages in other areas such as family
planning and nutrition, but the introduction of the syndromic approach at a clinic that sees
a large number of STD patients will likely necessitate a change in staffing requirements.
10.   Adequate supplies and materials. Clinics where the syndromic approach is used
will need flow charts for the staff to refer to, educational posters and materials to use with
clients, condoms for distribution and demonstration purposes, medications (if the policy
is to dispense medications directly), etc.
11.   A referral system. If an STD patient has been given both the first-line and
second-line treatment with no improvement in symptoms, he/she needs to be referred to a
specialist for further examination and laboratory diagnosis of what is probably a drug-
resistant STD or another condition. PHC's or clinics should have access to these services,
either in the nearest urban centre, the district hospital, a private clinic, and so on.



INDONESIA
HP//AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Donors Funding AIDS-Related Activities, 1996-2000
Grant                                                         Program Arma
Donor       Amount            Behavior Change                  STD Services                Blood Safety/           Administrative SupportV      Duration    Geographical Area       Comments
(USS)                                                                         Laboratories               Policy/Research
UNAIDS          275,700   Promote general awareness                                                               Assist NAC in developing,       1996-1997    Not focused on      Much reduced
through NAC-run activities                                                             refining national strategy and             specific provinces    support following
in coordinating, supporting                                   termination of
PACs                                                          GPA
WHO             540,000                                  Development of surveillance;                                                             1996-1997                        Pays for full-time
introduction of syndromic                                                                                              senior consultant
approach to STDs                                                                                                       and related
activities
AusAID        14,500,00    Develop packages and train    Train staff in STD management,                           Assistance to NAC and PACs,    1995-2000    Bali, NTT and S.     MOU signed
0     staff in 3 provinces           infection control, provide                               funding for National AIDS                 Sulawesi             10/30/95; main
equipment in 3 provinces;                               Conference; NGO                                                focus on
assure condom quality                                   strengthening and behavioral                                   NAC/PACs
studies in 3 provinces                   _
USAID         20,000,00    Workplace education; condom   STD/HIV curricula for medical   Improving laboratory     Upgrade NGO capacity;          1995-2000    Surabaya, N. Jakarta  80% of funds      e
0     marketing; youth leaders;      schools; training for service  capacity for diagnosis    develop framework for policy              and a third area to    channeled through
counseling activities          providers; epidemiologicall                             assessments; research on                  be designated as an    NGO and private
microbiological surveillance;                           knowledge/ attitudes                      additional           sector contracts
develop drug management                                 regarding sexual behavior,                demonstration area
and logistic system;                                    STDs, drug resistance;
improved access to                                      evaluate mass treatment
diagnostics
KfWV          13,100,00    Use NGO to handle social      Assist in developing counseling   Improve Red Cross blood                               1995-1998    Surabaya, Bali,      Emphasis on
0     marketing of condoms;          programs; support/care for     banking and screening;                                              Jakarta              blood system and
improve [EC capacity in       people with HIV and AIDS        model tissue banking                                                                    condom social
MOH; train health workers                                     programs; pre/post                                                                      marketing
counseling of blood
donors
UNFPA          1,400,000   Create AIDS awareness among                                                            Strengthen institutional capacity   1995-2000    E. Java, W.     Focus on families
leaders and in general public                                                          and commitment of BKKBN                   Kalimantan,          radter than high
through mass media                                                                     to family-centered approach               Yogyakarta, Irian    risk groups; work
campaign in 4 provinces                                                                                                          Jaya                 with BKXBN
European        852,395   Develop materials based on     Strengthen STD counseling in                             Assess incidencet prevalence of   1995-1996   Jakarta, Bandung,  Mainly funds
Community  I         _       research findings             target areas                                             STDs among sex workers                    Surabaya             research work
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufban
M:`IuMBERMA\STD\ANNEX3.DOC



- 58 -                        ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Introduction
1.    The basic goal of this project is to prevent the explosive, exponential growth of
the HIV/AIDS epidemic that has occurred in other countries. The primary strategy to
achieve this goal is to strengthen and expand the prevention and control of other sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs) in two geographic areas of the country with large populations
at risk. Studies have demonstrated the "synergistic" relationship between STDs and HIV.
Thus, the planned interventions against the first must include consideration of the other,
and improve control of "traditional" STDs may have a noticeable impact on the spread of
[HIV. It is apparent that an approach to HIV/STD control must involve both
multidisciplinary and multisectoral approaches, including clinical, laboratory and
educational services.
2.    As part of a three-year comprehensive pilot effort designed in the above
framework, the monitoring and evaluation component of this project is one of its most
important activities. Numerous activities will be planned and implemented in a short
time frame with multiple groups of people by numerous agencies and individuals in
different locations. The challenge to the monitoring and evaluation component will be to
quickly detect and respond to problems of implementation as well to be able to say
something about "what works" in Indonesia in STD/HIV prevention among different
groups of people and why, so that "scaling up" of activities can occur in the future.
Monitoring and evaluation should be carried out by managers at all levels of this project
(see below), at intervals sufficiently frequent to permit feedback and continuous
improvement of programns.
3.    Presented in the following paragraphs is an overview of the project's monitoring
and evaluation strategy, including designated performance indicators, how and when they
will be measured and by whom, for each of the principal components of the project.
Definitions
4.    Monitoring tracks the process of carrying out activities necessary for program
implementation. This can be accomplished through routine recording and reporting from
service delivery sites, supervisory visits, and periodic program reviews. Monitoring is an
integral part of evaluation; it is used to measure process objectives, that is, to determine if
and to what extent activities are being implemented as planned.



- 59 -                          ANNEX 4
5.    Evaluation measures the progress of the program toward two types of objectives:
(1) outcome objectives which specify changes in behavior or services as a result of
project activities; and (2) impact objectives which describe expected changes in STD
incidence and prevalence, HIV incidence and so forth. Measurement, particularly of
outcome objectives, can involve clinic-based surveys of STD service providers, pre/post-
tests of participants in training courses, long-term follow-up surveys of training
participants, exit interviews of STD patients, disease and behavioral surveillance, and
cohort studies.
6.    The term evaluation also includes operational research designed to answer
questions related to interventions and services of the prograrn; for example, the relative
effectiveness of using a peer group approach compared to a mass media-oriented
approach to reach senior secondary school students or the effectiveness of two different
approaches to work place education in two similar kinds of work places.
7.    indicators are quantified measurements that can be repeated over time to track
progress toward the achievement of objectives. They are normally expressed as numbers,
proportions, percentages or rates. Impact indicators appear at first glance to have
advantages over outcome indicators because they measure directly the reductions in STD
incidence and prevalence that are the ultimate objectives of the program. However, the
utility of impact indicators in this project is limited, for example, by the short time frame.
Outcome indicators, on the other hand, are based on more reliable data (e.g., the
performance of health workers or laboratory technicians) and measure variables whose
improvement should lead to a decrease in the negative impact of STDs. For this reason,
outcome indicators appear preferable to impact indicators for the evaluation and
management of this project.
Overview of Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy
8.    Monitoring and evaluation activities will be the responsibility of all three levels of
the project:
Level 1: The central HIV/AIDS and STD Program Management Unit will have a
full-time evaluation specialist, supported by technical assistance as well as an
institutional contractor. The evaluation specialist will be responsible for
overseeing the development and dissemination of a monitoring and evaluation
plan by the contractor that will:
define overall program objectives;
formulate appropriate evaluation criteria and indicators;
identify appropriate data sources and determine how often indicators will
be measured; and



- 60 -                         ANNEX 4
describe a strategy for feedback and use of the data for ongoing project
management.
9.    The evaluation specialist will be responsible for explaining and developing a
commitment to the evaluation among those participating in project implementation.
Close coordination with evaluation experts at the National AIDS Commission will be
essential.
10.   The central evaluation specialist will have primary responsibility for overseeing
monitoring and evaluation of all central components of the project, including feedback
and data use.
11.   The central evaluation specialist will work closely with evaluation specialists
from Jakarta and Riau to ensure consistency between central and provincial level
evaluation plans. He/she will also help the provincial evaluation specialists by providing
guidance to evaluation planning and implementation by local implementing groups.
Level II: Each provincial project implementation unit will hire an evaluation
specialist who will serve as the key link between central project staff and
implementing agencies as concerns implementation of the monitoring and
evaluation component. She/he will be responsible for coordinating monitoring
and evaluation activities among similar groups or similar interventions involving
more than a single front-line implementing unit.
Level III: Pursuant to the pilot nature of this project and consistent with the
Ministerial decree which states that "because of the importance of monitoring and
evaluation in the strategy [for HIV/AIDS prevention] all plans of all
organizations/groups should include time, budget and staff for this purpose", all
implementing agencies will be required to undertake monitoring and evaluation
activities as part of their terms of reference for implementation of project-
supported activities. NGOs and other groups will be assisted in this task by the
provincial evaluation specialist, technical assistance consultants and appropriate
technical staff from management units.
Evaluation Contractor
12.   The comprehensive and pilot nature of this project presents important challenges
for evaluation. For this reason, the central HIV/AIDS and STDs Management Unit will
seek proposals from institutions and organizations in Indonesia with the expertise and
management capacity to provide all evaluation services require by the project. Services
would be provided by the resident experts of the institution; in some cases, specific
components of the evaluation, e.g., KABP surveys, or health provider surveys or focus
group discussions of CSWs participating in project activities, could be subcontracted to
other groups or individual consultants.



-61-                          ANNEX 4
13.   The evaluation contract would be managed by the evaluation specialist in the
Program Management Unit.



- 62 -                              ANNEX 4
Table 1: Designated Performance Indicators
Indicators                      Data Source       | Level of Collection     Frequency
1.   Goal: Improved Awareness and Behavioral Change in Key Groups
1. Percent of CSWs seen by
providers for STDs who:         Exit Interviews     Sentinel Surveillance   Quarterly
Sites
- can describe correct use of a
condom according to standard
guidelines
- can explain where and how they
most recently obtained condoms
- have a positive attitude toward
consistent, correct condom use
2. Percent of CSWs in           Survey              NGOs and province/      Yearly
"localisasis" reached by project                    district staff
who report ever use of condom
and use in last sexual act.
3. Percent of persons by target  Exit Interviews   NGOs and other          Quarterly
group leaving group education                       implementation agencies
sessions who:
- can cite at least 2 means of STD
prevention
- state that HIV is a special type
of STD
- state that a person can remain
healthy for several years but still
transmit the virus
- express the importance of
positive family attitudes toward a
member with AIDS
4. Percent of STD patients      Clinic/patient      Providers at Sentinel   One day per month
reportedly seeking care within 24   record          Sites
hours of noting symptoms
II.   Goal: Improved Knowledge and Skills of Health Providers
5. Percent of health workers    Surveys of         Health center -         Every six months,
trained in syndromic approach   observations of     conducted by province    beginning six months
who, 6 months after training can:   randomly selected   & center personnel  after first training
health workers                             workshops



- 63 -                             ANNEX 4
Indicators                     Data Source        Level of Collection     Frequency
- demonstrate appropriate use of
flow chart
- demonstrate how to use a
condom
- explain the importance of
treating STDs as a way of
preventing AIDS
III.  Goal: Establish Effective Surveillance Mechanisms
6. Reported condom use with    Periodic surveys    Population-based       Twice yearly
non-regular sex partners                          (conducted by center
staff or contracted out)
- #people aged 15-49 who
reported condom use in most
recent act of sex intercourse with a
non-regular partner
- # of people aged 15-49 reporting
sexual intercourse with a non-
regular sex partner in the past
month
7. Reported STD incidence -    Periodic surveys    Sentinel Surveillance  Monthly
(MEN)                                             Sites
(reported episodes of Syphilis in men
aged 15-49 - past month)
(men aged 15-49, surveyed)
8. STD incidence - (WOMEN)     Periodic surveys    Sentinel Surveillance  Monthly
Sites
(reported women aged 15-24, positive
for syphilis)
(pregnant women aged 15-24)
IV. Goal: Enhance Capabilities and Proficiency of Health Laboratory System
9. Perfornance on bi-annual    Competency         Laboratory              Every six months
proficiency panel (Competency  Reports
Report)l



- 64 -                            ANNEX 4
Table 2: Process Indicators - IEC/Behavioral Change
Indicators                       Data Source         Level Of Collection   Frequency
- Number of group education      Activity reports from   Province        Monthly
sessions (packages) conducted by  agencies
each province
- Number of peer group education  Agency reports     Province            Monthly
sessions conducted by each province
- Percent of health providers having   Agency reports  Province          Monthly
received basic training in AIDS
awareness and infection control by
province
- Number of educational materials    M.I.S.          Province            Quarterly
printed and distributed by province by
target group
- Percent of factories/companies who  Survey         Province            Yearly
have participated in educational
programs (CEOs, managers,
supervisors) who develop formal
policies related to HIV/AIDS in the
workplace
- Percent of registered CSWs who  Survey             Province            Annual
have participated in at least one peer
group education session within the
past 3 months
- Number of NGOs involved in     M.I.S.              Province            Annual
implementing IEC activities
- Percent of schools reached by  M.I.S.              Province            Annual
project that have organized peer
group programs
- Number of condoms distributed by   M.I.S.          Center & provinces   Annual
each project management unit to
NGOs providing IEC services
- Number of implementing agencies   Reports          Province            Annual
that have conducted focus group
discussions or other activities to
solicit feedback from those served by
the NGOs
- Percent of implementing agencies   Supervision reports   Implementing agency  Bi-annual
who report at least I supervisory visit  and/or activity
by PMU staff during past 6 months   reports



- 65 -                             ANNEX 4
Indicators                        Data Source        |Level Of Colection  I Frequency
BIOMEDICAL SERVICES
1. # of syndromic training workshops  Activity report  Province            Monthly
conducted by province
2. # of condoms distributed by    Activity report      Province            Monthly
central province health dept.
3. # of condoms distributed health    Surveys of selected    Clinic province  Quarterly
centers/clinics as a numerator of #  health centers
received
SURVEILLANCE
1. # of health workers trained in new   Activity report  Province          Monthly
surveillance methods
2. # of supervisory visits made by  Activity report    Center/province     Monthly
central and provincial level staff
surveillance
HEALTH LABORATORIES
Equipping Individual Facilities
1. Completion of Materials Checklist  Routine         Laboratory           First year
by each laboratory
2. Completion of Readiness Report   Reports            Laboratory          First year
by each laboratory
Assessment of Testing Capabilities
1. Completion of Knowledge        Readiness/inspection   Laboratory        First year
Assessment (written)              reports
2. Performance on Proficiency Panel
Of Sera:
a) ability to determine CD3/4/8   Proficiency panel    Laboratory          Twice yearly
levels by flow cytometry
Laboratory          Twice yearly
b) ability to determine p24 levels  Proficiency panel
Laboratory          Twice yearly
c) ability to perform Chlymadia   Proficiency panel
Final Assessment Of Preparedness
1. Visitation and completion of the    Reports        Laboratory           Every year
Inspection Report
Monitoring
1. Second year visitation and     Inspection reports  Laboratory           Second year
Inspection Report



- 66 -                         ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDS PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Project Management
1.    The worldwide AIDS epidemic has only developed during the last decade.
Indonesia itself is in the early stages of the epidemic and no one is certain how fast the
epidemic will spread. Nonetheless, the potentially devastating impact of HIV/AIDS
demands an early mobilization on resources to prevent the outbreak of a large epidemic in
Indonesia. Institutional structures normally evolve over time and are not easily able to
respond sudden changes, such as the AIDS epidemic. Therefore, it is necessary to
establish functional arrangement to ensure that the MOH is able to meet the increased
demands for responsibilities and tasks involved with the HIV/AIDS. Thus, the project
will support the establishment of management arrangements which will support overall
activities of the MOH in the area of AIDS prevention and relief, as well as the activities
of the World Bank-supported project itself.
2.    Another consideration in establishing management arrangements is the National
AIDS Commission, recently established by a Presidential Degree. This commission is
under the Coordinating Ministry for People's Welfare and is responsible for coordinating
the work of all department, agencies and community organization in HIV/AIDS related
activities. This intersectoral group also has similar commissions at the provincial and
district level which are directly under local governments. The project will support the
work of these commissions and establish linkages with the health sector at all levels.
Central Level
3.    A management unit, called the Management Unit for the HIV/AIDS and STDs
Prevention and Management Program (PMU) will be established in the Ministry of
Health to guide the planning and technical support for implementing all activities related
to HIV/AIDS and STDs within the MOH. STDs has been included in this unit since the
major medical strategy to prevent HIV/AIDS in Indonesia is to reduce the incidence of
STDs. All work within the MOH will be coordinated by this unit and it will serve as the
major gateway to the other sector, by way of the National Aids Commission. The head of
this unit reports directly to the Director General of Communicable Disease Control and
Environmental Health (CDC/EH) in the ministry. The Unit has subunits for technical
support planning, monitoring and evaluation and administration.
4.    The Unit will be responsible for planning all MOH activities related to STDs and
HIV/AIDS and providing technical support for their implementation. This will include
the activities in the World Bank-supported project. However, policy and formal decision-



- 67 -                         ANNEX 5
making (such as budget authorizations) will be made by officials in the formal MOH
structure. Depending on the decisions of the Director General of CDC/EH, staff within
the Directorate General may be seconded to work in this unit and report directly to the
head of the Unit. Whenever necessary, the Director General may consult with other
Directors General or the Secretary General to second staff from outside the Directorate
General for Communicable Diseases Control and Environmental Health.
5.    The Unit will also have responsibilities to other donor-assisted activities related to
STDs and HIV/AIDS which will be implemented by the MOH. The Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation subunit will be responsible for monitoring the implementation
of various donor-assisted projects and to guide the scheduling of all activities related to
these. The Technical Support subunit will work closely with all projects to ensure the
development of appropriate technical materials and to disseminate these materials to
other projects and regions which might use them. Donor agencies other than the World
Bank will be encouraged to assign staff or consultants to work in this subunit if this is
beneficial. However, all donor-supported staff and consultants assigned to this subunit
will be directly responsible to the Unit Head, who will in turn be accountable to the donor
agencies as needed.
6.    The PMU will facilitate MOH support for and communications with the National
AIDS Commission. For example, if the National AIDS Commission requests support
from the MOH to work with other sectors or to provide technical information or reports,
the unit will identify who should provide this support and to follow-up with its
implementation. If the MOH requires the involvement of other sectors or departments,
the Unit will be responsible for bringing this need to the attention of the National Aids
Commission.
(a)   Technical Support Subunit - This subunit will be responsible for
developing national STD and HIV/AIDS program protocols and materials,
as well as to provide technical support to provincial staff involved with
these programs. This will include biomedical aspects such as the case
management of STDs and HIV/AIDS patients, surveillance activities for
HIV/AIDS, diagnostic services for these diseases and universal
precautions for health workers and STDs. Because of the importance of
behavioral change in combating STDs and HIV/AIDS, the subunit will
include IEC (Information, Education and Communications) and evaluation
specialists. They will concentrate on interventions to reduce high-risk
behavior related to the spread of STDs and HIV/AIDS activities. This will
involve development of IEC materials and training materials, such as
modules and IEC materials and training materials, such as modules for
training STD counselors. Some development work will be carried out by
subunit staff, while other will be assigned to research units and
universities. This subunit will be responsible for evaluating the
effectiveness of such protocols and materials, either through consultant
services or studies. The division would be responsible for drawing up



- 68 -                         ANNEX 5
terms of reference (TOR) for consultants and studies, as well as to monitor
performance in these assignments. Subunit staff will also be responsible
for providing technical support for provincial staff involved with STDs
and HIV/AIDS activities. Materials and protocols will be sent to these
staff, training will be provided as needed and there will be periodic visits
to the provinces to assess progress and assisting in solving problems with
implementation of program activities.
(b)   Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Subunit - The main
responsibilities of this subunit are to plan the smooth execution of all
activities involved with STDs and HIV/AIDS. This will start with
activities related to the national budget and activities supported by the
World Bank project. Eventually, this subunit will also be responsible for
activities supported by other donor agencies. In order to make appropriate
plans, the subunit will also monitor the implementation of existing
activities being carried out at the central level, and to compile monitoring
reports received from all provinces. If possible, this will also include
performance indicators, although formal evaluations will be carried out by
the Technical Division. This should provide a clear picture of the
implementation of overall activities related to STD and HIV/AIDS. Each
year, the subunit will be responsible for preparing the draft plan and
budget for the following year's activities at the central level, and to
compile provincial plans and budgets. As new national and donor assisted
projects are being prepared, this subunit will plan an active role in
identifying special needs and drawing up plans for the period of the
proposed project. Monitoring of activities in the province will be the
responsibility of the Provincial Health Office. However, this subunit will
prepare monitoring protocols and guidelines, help train provincial staff
and undertake periodic visits to support provincial activities.
(c)   Administrative Subunit - This section will be responsible for providing
administrative support to all staff in the PMU. This will involve the
normal administrative procedures needed to release, use and account for
expenditures by the PMU. It will also include financial monitoring to
track current expenditures and compare these to budgets. Contracts for
consultant services and studies would be drawn up and implemented by
this section. Especially for the World Bank project, the subunit would be
responsible for administrative issues involving the Bank, including
procurement, communications with the Bank and the monitoring of loan
disbursements. Some of these activities would also be allocated to
provincial and district staff, under the guidance of this subunit.
Steering Committee
7.    A Steering Committee will be established composed as follows:



-69 -                          ANNEX 5
Chairperson  :                         Secretary General of MOH
Vice-chairperson I   :                 Director General of CDC/EH
Vice-chairperson 11  :                 Chairperson of the NAC's Working Group
Secretary    :                         Chief of the Planning Bureau, Ministry of
Health
Members                                 1.    Bureau Chief for Social Welfare,
Health and Nutrition, Bappenas
2.    Director II of Budget, Ministry of
Finance
3.    Director of Budget Administration,
Ministry of Finance
4.    Director of Regional Development,
MOHA
5.    Head of the Secretariat of
Directorate General of CDC/EH
6.    Project Manager
Roles of the National AIDS Commission
8.    The National AIDS Commission, under the Coordinating Ministry of People's
Welfare or Menko Kesra, plays three key roles in supporting activities for HIV/AIDS
under the project:
(a)   Establishment of national policies regarding AIDS - As the AIDS
epidemic develops, there will be many issues which must be decided at the
highest levels. For example, what will happen if HIV victims are fired
from their jobs or released from health insurance coverage? Should
children with HIV be allowed to attend school? Issues such as these
involve many sectors and may require the drafting and implementation of
new laws and regulation. Decisions should only be made after
investigation of all sides of the issues and consideration of all interests.
(b)   Central coordination of various ministries and agencies involved with
HIV/AIDS - The activities of all departments and agencies should be in
line with national priorities and agreed targets. The commission should be
responsible for communicating with each sector to ensure that all work is



- 70 -                        ANNEX 5
being done, to prevent duplication of programs and to avoid conflicting
messages or programs.
(c)   Support the effective coordination of local AIDS Commissions - Actual
coordination of the implementation of HIV/AIDS related activities will be
done at the local levels under the local government. Local AIDS
commissions have been established to support this work and to encourage
various actors to work and plan together. The National AIDS Commission
should support the work of the Provincial AIDS Commissions by
providing effective training and materials (such as guidelines for preparing
provincial AIDS plans or for monitoring the work of various sectors), and
to make periodic visits to AIDS Commissions to explain national policies
and to help solve local problems related to coordination and planning.
9.    The project will strengthen the capacity of Menko Kesra in these roles and
provide funds for implementing activities involving these during the course of the project.
District or Municipal Level
10.   The implementation of interventions related to STDs and HIV/AIDS will be the
responsibility of the district or municipal level. Furthermore, since conditions and
capacities vary from region to region, the district or municipality will be responsible for
determining the specific mix of interventions in the region and to decide which institution
and individuals are responsible for implementing them.
11.   At this level, the bupati (chief district official) or wali kota (mayor) are
responsible for the overall implementation of AIDS related activities, as described in the
Presidential Decree. The mechanism for doing this is the District or Municipal AIDS
Commission headed by the bupati or wali kota. Membership of this commission consists
of all local units or agencies involved in AIDS work, along with representatives from
local NGOs.
12.   Under this project, the bupati or wali kota will have the overall responsibility for
implementation. However, in practice, he or she will delegate this authority to other local
officials. In the project, there will be two centers of delegation. First, activities fully
under the implementation of the health departments will be delegated to the Head of the
District/Municipal Health Office (Dinas Kesehatan Tingkat II or DinKes II). Funds
will be budgeted for this work through the APBN DIP in the health sector, usually
through the integrated health DIP, which has a sub-project manager at the district or
municipal level.
13.   Responsibility for implementing activities conducted by other government units,
joint activities between health and other sectors and work performed by NGOs will be
delegated to a local government official, at the discretion of the bupati or wali kota. This
person, called the District/Municipal AIDS Coordinator, will consult with key



- 71-                         ANNEX 5
government or NGO officials and ensure that they have adequate funds for agreed
activities and are accountable for their performance. This official will also be responsible
for ensuring that World Bank procedures and agreement are being followed. In addition,
the District/Municipal AIDS Coordinator will use the forum of the local AIDS
Commission to report on AIDS-related activities and to promote an exchange of views
between various government agencies and NGOs.
14.   Activities will be carried out by various structural staff within the departments or
sections responsible for assigned work. During the course of the project, the
District/Municipal AID Coordinator and the Head of the District/Municipal Health
Office will hire one full-time professional and two full-time administrative staff to assist
with the functions of coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. These
staff may be seconded from government units or hired on a contract basis from local
NGOs.
Provincial Level
15.   The overall role of the provincial level is to facilitate implementation of district
and municipal activities in the province. This involves planning functions (determining
where activities will be implemented and ensuring that budgets are prepared), providing
technical support to district and municipal units (training, assessment and problem
solving) and holding local units accountable for their performance (including monitoring
and supervision).
16.   The overall responsibility of the HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and
Management Program is with the Governor who is also the responsible official of the
Provincial AIDS Cornmission. The Project Director, as the responsible official of the
HIIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project at the provincial level is the
Assistant III (Peoples' Welfare) of the Regional Secretary, in his capacity as
Chairperson/Secretary of the Provincial AIDS Commission. The Project Manager will
be the responsible executing official of the Project in Region Level I is the Kakanwil for
MOH.
17.   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be a unit within the Provincial Health
Service (Dinas Kesehatan I) which is responsible for the implementation activities of the
project. This unit will be established by the Local Government and is directly responsible
to the Project Manager. The main function of the PIU is to cause expeditious execution
of activities at the Region Level II or equivalent, primarily in terms of:
(i)   coordination of planning and budgeting;
(ii)  coordination of cross-sectoral IEC implementation;
(iii)  provision of technical support, such as training; and
(iv)  to conduct guidance/supervision and monitoring and evaluation.



- 72 -                        ANNEX 5
18.   The responsible official in the planning and budgeting of HIV/AIDS and STDs
Prevention and Management Program at Regional Level I is the Chairperson of the
provincial planning body (Bappeda). Through the AIDS Commission, a special
communication forum will be formed consisting of relevant Kanwil/Dinas officials,
including Social Affairs, Manpower, Education, Family Planning, with the Head of the
Program Formulation and Monitoring (Kepala Bidang P2TK) with Kakanwil acting
as the Secretary.
19.   The PIU will include a Unit Chief supported by full time secretariat which will be
responsible for the day-to-day activities. The secretariat will be headed by an Executive
Secretary. The PIU will also be supported by a number of professionals (technical team).
The main function of the technical team is to support biomedical activities including
surveillance to be carried out under the project, behavioral interventions as well as
monitoring and evaluation activities. The main functions of the Executive Secretary are
as follows:
(i)   coordinate the cross-sectoral IEC, involving NGOs;
(ii)  execute and coordinate the World Bank assisted project in the
province; and
(iii)  coordinate World Bank funded project activities with those of
other donor supported projects to ensure most effective use of fund
resources.



INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project
Summary Tasks and Three-Year Implementation Schedule
1996             |            1997             ]            1998
ID   Task Name                                         01      02     03  | 4|Q1             02      03     Q4  |01          2     0 3     04    01       02
1   I. CENTER
2       A. IEC & Behavioral Interventions
3           1. Start-up
9           2. Needs Analysb/Program DesIgn (5)
16           3. Develop Train-of-Trainers Modules (6)
23           4. Develop IEC Materials Packages (5)
29           5. Training of Trainers (6 groups of 30)
34           7. Ongoing Project Support
36               Annual national workshops            .                                                          I
43              IEC research .
47               Communication research
53       B. Biomedical - STDs & HIVIrAIDS Services
54           1. Syndromic Approach-Various Activities    .
61               Supervision visits
68           2. Counsellingicondoms-Various Activities
75               Supervision visits
82           3. Universal precautions-various activities    .
89               Supervision visits
95           4. AIDS Awareness-Various Activities
102              Supervision visit                     ._                                                                          _      _     _                  r
108          5. Treatment AIDS Patients-Activities                                                                                      ____
115              Supervision visits
115~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project
Summary Tasks and Three-Year Implementation Schedule
1996            3            1997                         1998
ID   TaskNam                                         Q1    Q2    Q3    04    Q1          02    043  Q4J          I   Q2        3     04    01    02
120          6. Treamnt TB/AIDS Patients Activities
127             Supervision visit
132          7. Annual M&E Meeting                                                  _
136          8. Research Projects (21year)                                                                                                   _
140          9. Annual Report Preparation                                           _
145      C. Blomedical-STDs & HIVIAIDS Surveillance         _                                                                                   _
147          2. AnUmicrobial Sensitivity-Varlous AcUvite
153          3. Routine Syndromic-Various Actvities
159          4. Sentinel Slbs-VarIous Activities
165          S. AIDS Case-Various Activite                       _
171          6. Heaith Providers-Various AcUvities
177          7. Risk Groups-Various Activities
183          8. Infection Control-Various Activites
189          9. HIV and TB-Various Activitis 
196          10. Monitoring & Evaluation Studies
199          11. Special Studies                            _-
203          12. Computer Training                                _I.
207          13. Annual M&E Meeting
211          14. Annual Report Preparation
216      D. Biomedical - Laboratory Services             _
217          1. Planning Phase                           _
220             Plan workshops



INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project
Summary Tasks and Three-Year Implementation Schedule
1996                         1997                         1998
ID   Task Name                                       Ql    Q2    Q3  I Q4    Q1          Q2    Q3       Q4    Q1    0Q2    0 Q3    Q4       Q1      Q2
224          2. Implementation Phase
225              Conduct workshops                                                                            _
232          3. Assessment Phase oW
234             Assess lab capibilities              ._
237              Proficiency panels
246  II. JAKARTA
247      A. IEC & Behavioral Interventions
248          1. Start-up
254          2. Needs Analysis & Program Design        . 
260          3. IEC materials
265          4. Training (30/course)
266             Training-of-trainers - social workers
272             Training-of-trainers - schools
276             Training-of-trainers - community     .
280              Health providers
284             Workplace - doctors, paramedics)
288              Buddy training
292          5. STD/HIV Education Activities
293             Group education - high risk groups
297             Group education - workplace
301             Group education - schools
305              Peer group education - high risk



INDONESIA
HIViAIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project
Summary Tasks and Three-Year Implementation Schedule
1996                         1997             [19983
ID   Task Name                                        Q      Q2        Q3   Q4     Q1     Q2        Q3   04      Q1L   Q2      Q3      04  l Q1  |2 Q2
309              Peer group education - workplace
313              Peer group education - schools
317              Follow-up activities - high risk ps
321              Follow-up activities - schools
325              Study Tours - workplace
328          6. Ongoing Project Support
335      B. Biomedical - STD & HIV/AIDs Services
337          2. Provincial seminar
341          3. IEC Meeting (blood doners)            .
345          4. Training - Syndromic Approach
349          5. Training - Infection Control
354          7. Provision of STD Services            ._                                                                    __.                 _
358          8. Mor.itoring & Evaluation             .
361          9. Preparation of Annual Report
366      C. Biomedical-STD & HIVIAIOs Surveillance
370          4. Purchase equipment                   .      _
376          7. Monitoring & Evaluation                                                                                                        _
379          8. Preparation of Annual Report         .,
384      D. Biomedical - Laboratory Services
385          1. Planning Phase                       ._._X
387              Plan Workshops
390          2. Implementation Phase                             __.                                                 _



INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project
Summary Tasks and Three-Year Implementation Schedule
1996            |            1997             [            1998                         1
ID   Task Name                                        Q1     Q2      03      Q4    Q1      Q2     Q3     04      Q1     02      Q3     Q4     Q1      02
393              Deliver workshops
397          3. Assessment Phase                      ._
406  Ill. RIAU (BATAM & KEPRI)
407      A. IEC & Behavorial Interventions
408          1. Start-up
414          2. Needs Analysis & Program Design
420          3. IEC materials
425          4. Training-of-trainers (30/course in Batam/R I
426              High risk groups
432              Health providers
436          5. Other Training (Batam/Riau)
438              Journalists
443          6. STDHIV Education Activities                      _
444              Group education - high risk groups
448              Group Education - workplace
452              Group Education - schools
456              Group Education - health providers
460              Peer Group Education - high risk group
464              Peer Group Education - workplace
468              Peer Group Education - schools
472              Follow-up Activities - high risk groups    .                                                                                                  tJ 
476              Follow-up Activities - workplace



INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project
Summary Tasks and Three-Year Implementation Schedule
1996            1            1997                          1998                         1
ID   Task Name                                       Q1      Q2     Q3      Q4    Ql      Q2      Q3     Q4      Q1     Q2     Q3      Q4     01      0 Q2
480              Follow-up Activities - schools       .      .j,
484              Workplace Special Occasions - CEOs/R
488              Workplace Special Occasions - Health/   .                                                     .       
493              Policymaker Seminar                  .                  _       .
497              Hotline Services                                                                              .                            -_
501          7. Ongoing Project Support               .
508      B. Biomedical - STD & HIV/AIDS Services      . _
509          1. Provincial Intersectoral Meetings    ..                                 
513          2. District Intersectoral Meetings       .       
517          3. Syndromic Approach Training
521          4. Infection Control Training
525          5. Evaluation 8 Planning Meetings       .
532          9. Preparation of Annual Report
537      C. Biomedical - STD & HIV/AIDs Surveillance
538          1. Workshops                                                  _                                                        _
542          2. Monitoring & Evaluation Meetings      .                        _
552      D. Biomedical - Laboratory Services         .
553          1. Planning Phase                       .
555              Plan Workshops                       ._
558          2. Implementation Phase
561              Deliver workshops
565          3. Assessment Phase



INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Technical Assistance
TA Activity                   Purposel Objectives         limplernenting      Total      Person/    Status of TOR (DATE)          Short List (DATE)          Standard        Respoaibtli  fot
Agency       (USS'O0O)    Month                                                             Prepared (Y/N)        Supeamsion
Prepared     Expected      Prepared     Expected                          RSI        HQ
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
A. BEHAVIOR CHANGE
Central Level
International Experts
Needs assessment              Needs assessment/design                MOH              18           1        11/6/95                                  TBD               Y                         X
Training                      Prep. TOT modules                      MOH              36          2         11/6/95                                  TBD               y                         X
Local Experts
Needs assessment              Needs assessment/design                MOH              12          6         11/6/95                                  TBD               Y              X
Program Development           Guidelines/workplace educ.             MOH              12          6         11/6/95                                  TBD               Y              x
NGO Capacity Development   Program planning/evaluation               MOH              12          6        11/6/95                                   TBD               Y              x
Provincial Level
lnternational Experts
NGO Capacity Development   Program planning/evaluation               MOH              54          3        11/6/95                                   TBD               y                        x
Program Development           Guidelines/schools                     MOH              72          4        11/6/95                                   TBD               Y                        x
Workplace implementation               MOH             54           3        11/6/95                                   TBD              y                         x
Local Experts                                                                                                                                                                                         >
NGO Capacity Development   Program implementation/                   MOH              8           4        11/6/95                                   TBD               Y             x
management
Needs assessment              Rapid assessment/design/training       MOH              16          8        11/6/95                                   TBD               Y             x                  X
Training                      TOTdelivery                            MOH              16          8        11/6/95                                   TBD               Y             X
Program design                Workplace                              MOH              8           4        11/6/95                                   TBD               Y             x



i0g0   TA; Activity ;i:;0;       Purpose/ Objetives : 0Imp; lemnig   Tota               Pe; :0    rson!0i0 Stau of TO  i(DATE)  Shor rList (D TE)0t00000    =             rpaiblt
.~~ ~ ~     ~~~~     .....  .   ..   .  ........   ......... ..
B. STD SERVICES
International Experts
Syndromic diagnosis and     Develop training manual               MOH             18          1       11/6/95                                 TED             Y                        X
treatment
Assist in training of trainers       MOH             18          1       11/6/95                                 TED              Y                       X
Assess training programs             MOM             9          .5       11/6/95                                 TED              Y                       X
Infection control methodologies                                   MOH             18          1       11/6/95                                 TED             Y                        X
Local Experts
Syndromic diagnosis and     Develop training manuals              MOH             4          2        11/6/95                                 TED             Y             X
treatment
Assist in training of trainers       MOM             2           1       11/6/95                                 TED              Y             X
Supervise initial training           MOM             16         4        11/6/95                                 TED              Y             X
Assess training programs             MOM             2           1       11/6/95                                 TED              Y             X 
Infection control           Assess/strengthen current             MOM             2          1        11/6/95                                 TED             Y             X                  0
approaches
Disposal of infected materials   Assess/strengthen current        MOM             4          2        11/6/95                                 TED             Y             X
approaches
C HEALTH LABORATORIES
International Experts
Initiation of Activities    Plan national workshop                MOM             9          .5       11/6/95                                 TBD             Y                        X
Develop education materials
Monitor purchase of supplies
Develop registries of information
Review TORs of players
Advise on establishment of
Centers of Excellence
Assessment of needs2
Workshop Coordination        Lead activities for preparation and  MOM             18          1       11/6/95                                 TED            YV
(National)                  conduction of national workshop 
Workshop Coordination       Lead activities for preparation and   MOM             18          1       11/6/95                                 TED             Y                        X       o
(Regional)                  conduction of four regional
workshops
Monitoring of Activities and    Review proficiency testing results  MOM           18         1        11/6/95                                 TED             Y                        X
Laboratory Performance    Assess testing algorithm
effective -ss



TA Activity                  PurposelObjectves          Impementing        Tot.       Parnt    Status ofTOR (DATE)           Short List (DATE)              ...  . ...l.
Agency       (USS'100)   Month                        C-nnetmd .. .                                            up .  .
Prepared     Expeated     Prepamd      Expected                        RSI        HQ
Assess specialized testing
activities, Centers of Excellence
capabilities, some prov. labs
Final assessment of program and
years 1-3
Local Experts
Technical Advisor            Monitor testing procedure and lab.    MOH             24          12       11/6/95                                 TBD              Y              X
operations
Compile information and
coordinate technical aspects of
testing and troubleshooting
Provide educational materials
Quality Assurance Officer    Prepare assessment materials          MOH             24          12       11/6/95                                 TBD              Y              X
Address variances
Evaluate performance
Coordinate educational endeavors
D. SURVEILLANCE                                                                                                                                                                                  00
International Experts
Development of HIV/STD       Recommend detailed approach           MOH             36          2        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        x
Surv.
AIDS Case Surveillance       Advise on sample methodology          MOH             18          1        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        x
Anti-microbial sensitivity   Advise on technical design            MOH             36          2        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        x
AIDS and Tuberculosis        Advise on instrument                  MOH             18          1        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        x
Research and special studies    Advise/comment on proposals        MOH             18          1        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        x
Local Experts
Development of HIV/STD surveillance                                MOH             12          6        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y             x
Computers and data analysis                                        MOH             6           3        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y             X
Anti-microbial sensitivity                                         MOH             8           4        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y             x
Research and special studies                                       MOH              8          4        11/6/95                                 TBD              y             X
E MONITORING AND EVALUATION



TA At;tiv0$$       ;        ; ity  P t Ob jec0 00  0    0;;:0ti;ves t ;0 I0nptementing  Ot6  ersW  tatus oT    (DA )         Shrt ist;   AT ;cK;                       Reposiilt flr
Asency::: :USS'OOO)   MOnth:           ...e..                          .....                     (YIN.)       SuUsif
Central Level
lnterational Experts
System design                Advise on best approach               MOH             54          3        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        x
Introduce behavioral surveillance    MOH             36           2        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y                        X
Local Experts
System design                Join team on behavioral               MOH             12          6        11/6/95                                 TBD              Y              X
surveillance
Pravincial Level
International Experts
Behavioral suirveillance     Introduce agreed design               MOH            108          6        11/6/95                                 TBD              y                        X
Local Experts
Behavioral surveillance      Introduce agreed design               MOH             24          12       11/6/95                                 TBD              Y              X
_                                                                                   -          _ -
TDI&                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
International Experts                                                           684         37
Local Experts                                                                   232         112
ON



- 83 -                                   ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Timing       Duration                         Mission Purpose                           Team  Composition
(Weeks)                                                                     (Staff weeks (SW))
1. Apr. 1996      2      Review of plans for first year implementation including:      Economist
*   needs analyses, research, program design, and training-of- trainer  Health Specialist
module for IEC and Behavioral Interventions;
*   plans for STDMHIV services and surveillance;              SW=4
*   plans for data collection, staff development, and training for
laboratory services; and
*   plans for project management and NGO participation.
Field visits in Riau and Jakarta; meet with NGOs
2. Oct. 1996      2      Review:                                                        Economist
*   procurement and processing of contracts;                  Implementation Specialist
*   availability and channeling of funds (especially for multi-sectoral
activities and NGOs);                                     SW=4
*   IEC materials development;
*   training plans for STD/HIV health providers;
*   monitoring and evaluation plans (including results of initial
baseline surveys);
*   equipment procurement for surveillance activities; and
* equipment procurement for laboratories.
Field visits in Riau and Jakarta; meet with NGOs
3. May 1997       2      Review and discuss the annual plans and report; carry out post review   Economist
of contracts. Review project expenditures, implementation progress,    Health Specialist
annual plans for the IEC workshops, surveillance activities, and results
of laboratory proficiency activities. Update data on performance  SW=4
indicators.
Field visits in Riau and Jakarta; meet with NGOs
4. Oct. 1997      2      Review of procurement plans, processing of contracts, availability of  Economist
funds, project management; status of research projects, service delivery  Implementation Specialist
and surveillance activities (including review of the design of the
surveillance system).                                         SW=4
Evaluate the training of trainers. Update data on performance indicators.
Field visits in Riau and Jakarta; meet with NGOs
5. May 1998       2      Review and discuss annual implementation plans; and review:   Economist
*   project expenditures and disbursement;                    Health Specialist
*   lEC and training activities;
*   establishment of the testing capacity of laboratories (including  SW=4
private laboratories);
*   status of surveillance activities;
*   results of the special studies;
*   monitoring and evaluation results.
Update data on performance indicators.
Prepare for ICR. Field visits
6. Oct. 1998      2      Final review of:                                               Economist
*   procurement & project expenditures;                       Implementation Specialist
*   training activities for services;
*   implementation of service routines;                       SW=4
*   laboratory assessments, proficiency panels, and evaluation of test
kits
Field visits. Complete ICR



-84-                                              ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year (Rps. '000)
Base Cost
1996            1997              199S            Total
A. Jakarta
1. IEC & Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                                        633,641.0        859,077.0        826,686.0       2,319,404.0
Workplace                                                62,565.0        163,755.0        179,580.0        405,900.0
SchooVULniversity                                       291,586.0        481,777.0        563,857.0       1,337,220.0
Community & General Public                              236,144.0        433,124.0        414,284.0       1,083,552.0
Health Providers                                        939,508.0       1,529,308.0      1,529,308.0      3,998,124.0
Other Support Activities                                148,125.0        168,125.0        168,125.0        484,375.0
Subtotal IEC & Behavioral Interventions                    2,311,569.0      3,635,166.0      3,681,840.0      9,628,575.0
2. Biomedical Services
STDhand HIV/AIDS Services                              1,515,289.0      2,630,689.0      2,670,089.0      6,816,067.0
Surveillance                                            515,526.0        467,326.0        467,326.0       1,450,178.0
Laboratory Services                                     234,200.0         63,900.2         59,900.0        358,000.2
Subtotal Biomedical Services                               2,265,015.0     3,161,915.2       3,197,315.0      8,624,245.2
3. Management & Support
Project Management                                      577,500.0        522,500.0        522,500.0       1,622,500.0
Subtotal Jakarta                                           5,154,084.0      7,319,581.2      7,401,655.0     19,875,320.2
B. Riau
1. IEC and Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                                        229,752.0        243,504.0        303,504.0        776,760.0
Workplace                                               184,960.0        244,504.0        256,440.0        685,904.0
School/University                                       214,000.0        394,400.0        394,400.0       1,002,800.0
Community & General Public                              310,432.0        495,292.0        488,292.0       1,294,016.0
Health Providers                                        232,600.0        483,600.0        483,600.0       1,199,800.0
Other Support Activities                                437,500.0        240,500.0        239,500.0        917,500.0
Subtotal IEC and Behavioral Interventions                  1,609,244.0     2,101,800.0      2,165,736.0       5,876,780.0
2. Biomedical Services
Protection of the Blood Supply                          848,410.0        166,385.0        136,385.0       1,151,180.0
STD and HIV/AIDS Services                              1,276,400.0     2,325,000.0       2,307,000.0      5,908,400.0
Surveillance                                            313,600.0        283,600.0        283,600.0        880,800.0
Laboratory Services                                     583,600.0        306,150.0        300,150.0       1,189,900.0
Subtotal Biomedical Services                              3,022,010.0      3,081,135.0       3,027,135.0      9,130,280.0
3. Management & Support
STD/AIDS Management                                     117,140.0         92,140.0         79,540.0        288,820.0
Project Management                                      425,500.0        357,500.0        357,500.0       1,140,500.0
Subtotal Management & Support                               542,640.0        449,640.0        437,040.0       1,429,320.0
Subtotal Riau                                             5,173,894.0       5,632,575.0      5,629,911.0     16,436,380.0
C. Center
1. IEC & Behavioral Interventions
High Risk Groups                                        320,353.3        325,453.3        325,453.3        971,259.9
Workplace                                               277,353.3        289,453.3        289,453.3        856,259.9
SchooWUniversity                                        277,353.3        289,453.3        289,453.3        856,259.9
Community & General Public                              302,853.3        263,953.3        289,453.3        856,259.9
Health Providers                                        277,353.3        289,453.3        263,953.3        830,759.9
Other Support Activities                                882,200.0        851,700.0        911,700.0       2,645,600.0
Subtotal IEC & Behavioral Interventions                    2,337,466.5     2,309,466.5      2,369,466.5       7,016,399.5
2. Biomedical Services
SID and HIV/AD)S Services                              1,454,932.0      1,216,432.0       699,900.0       3,371,264.0



- 85 -                                             ANNEX 8
Base Cost
1996             1997             1998             Total
Surveillance                                            3,122,757.0      1,772,130.0      1,701,530.0       6,596,417.0
Laboratory Services                                     4,163,675.0      4,489,300.0      4,827,400.0      13,480,375.0
Subtotal Biomedical Services                                8,741,364.0      7,477,862.0      7,228,830.0      23,448,056.0
3. Management and Support
STD/AIDS Management                                      565,000.0        565,000.0         225,000.0       1,355,000.0
Future Project Preparation                                      -                 -         365,000.0        365,000.0
Project Management                                       534,000.0        5D1,000.0         501,000.0       1,536,000.0
Subtobtl Management and Support                             1,099,000.0      1,066,000.0      1,091,000.0       3,256,000.0
Subtotal Center                                            12,177,830.5     10,853,328.5     10,689,296.5      33,720,455.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         22,505,808.5     23,805,484.7      23,720,862.5     70,032,155.7
Physical Contingencies                                  1,125,290.4      1,190,274.2      1,186,043.1       3,501,607.8
Price Contingencies                                      544,067.5       1,857,706.0      3,136,767.9       5,538,541.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          24,175,166.5     26,853,464.9      28,043,673.5     79,072,304.8
Taxes                                                   1,182,579.8      1,079,199.2      1,164,886.8       3,426,665.8
Foreign Exchange                                        9,085,753.6      8,055,390.1      8,500,319.1      25,641,462.8
Expenditure Accounts by Year (Rps. '000)
Base Cost                           Foreign Exchange
1996          1997          1998          Total        %        Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                                         3,516,201.0    1,766,976.0    1,802,376.0   7,085,553.0   80.0    5,668,442.4
B. Vehicles                                           200,000.0             -             -       200,000.0   90.0      180,000.0
C. Technical Assistance & Studies
Foreign Consultants                               480,800.0     430,800.0      410,800.0     1,322,400.0   80.0    1,057,920.0
Local Consultants                                 384,782.0     307,682.0      307,650.0     1,000,114.0    5.0      50,005.7
Studies & Research                               2,128,165.0    1,113,180.0    1,317,580.0  4,558,925.0   20.0      911,785.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance & Studies              2,993,747.0    1,851,662.0    2,036,030.0  6,881,439.0   29.4    2,019,710.7
D. Instructional Materials                           2,737,065.5    2,540,381.5    2,498,925.5   7,776,372.5   30.0    2,332,911.8
E. Reagents (Center)                                 2,462,500.0    2,889,500.0    3,316,500.0   8,668,500.0   80.0    6,934,800.0
F. Fellowships
Overseas                                          815,000.0     875,000.0     755,000.0      2,445,000.0  100.0    2,445,000.0
Domestic                                           88,000.0      52,000.0       40,000.0      180,000.0   10.0       18,000.0
Subtotal Fellowships                                  903,000.0     927,000.0     795,000.0     2,625,000.0   93.8    2,463,000.0
G. Training & Workshops                              5,089,654.0    8,225,801.2    7,704,967.0    21,020,422.2   10.0    2,102,042.2
H. Grants                                             220,000.0     526,000.0     526,000.0      1,272,000.0     -              -
1. Administrative Costs                              1,328,140.0    1,458,140.0    1,470,540.0  4,256,820.0   10.0      425,682.0
TotallnvestmentCosts                                  19,450,307.5   20,185,460.7   20,150,338.5    59,786,106.7   37.0   22,126,589.1
It. Recurrent Costs
A.Operations&Maintenance                              313,532.0     408,235.0     416,235.0      1,138,002.0     -
B. Supervision & Travel                               922,080.0    1,138,700.0    1,138,700.0   3,199,480.0
C. Supplies & Condoms                                1,241,289.0    1,494,489.0    1,436,989.0  4,172,767.0
D. Reagents (Provinces)                               578,600.0     578,600.0     578,600.0      1,735,800.0   80.0    1,388,640.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                  3,055,501.0    3,620,024.0    3,570,524.0    10,246,049.0   13.6    1,388,640.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  22,505,808.5   23,805,484.7   23,720,862.5    70,032,155.7   33.6   23,515,229.1
Physical Contingencies                           1,125,290.4    1,190,274.2    1,186,043.1   3,501,607.8   33.6    1,175,761.5
Price Contingencies                               544,067.5    1,857,706.0    3,136,767.9    5,538,541.4   17.2     950,472.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   24,175,166.5   26,853,464.9   28,043,673.5    79,072,304.8   32.4   25,641,462.8
Taxes                                            1,182,579.8    1,079,199.2    1,164,886.8   3,426,665.8     -              -
Foreign Exchange                                 9,085,753.6    8,055,390.1    8,500,319.1    25,641,462.8   -              -



- 86 -                             ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal    Amount per  Cumulative  Disbursement Profile /a
Year
Semester  Amount  %               %
(US$ million)
1996
2            0.0          0.0    0            0
1997
1            4.0          4.0  16             3
2            4.5          8.5  34             6
1998
1            4.5         13.0  52            10
2            4.5         17.5  71            14
1999
1            4.5         22.0  89            26
2            2.8         24.8  100           38
Project Completion Date: March 30, 1999
Project Closing Date:   September 30, 1999
a/ Latest standard disbursement profile for health projects in Indonesia
(November 1995).



- 87-                                 ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
H1V/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Plan: Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Total   Estimated                                           Documnts
Value    Contract    DIP    Procurement Kind of  Review   Required for
No.  Category                 (USS M)  Quantity  Allocation   Method   Review/a   By/b    Disbursemt
I    Equipment                      3.4
Contract<$50,000              1.0        20  Province   Shopping   Random    SPN         SOE
Post
Contract<$200,000             1.7        10 Pro./Dist.    NCB      Random    SPN         SOE
Post
Contract>S200,000             0.7         3   Center     ICB        Prior     TM         Full
2    Reagents (Center)              4.3      N/A   Center      ICB        Prior     TM         Full
3    Instructional Materials        3.9
Small <$50,000                1.0        10 Pro./Dist.  Shopping   Random    SPN         SOE
Post
Medium<$200,000               1.0         5 Province     NCB       Random    SPN         SOE
Post
Large>$200,000                1.9         8 Cen./Pro.    NCB        Prior     RSI        Full
4    Consultancy, Studies           3.4
Firm <$100,000                1.3       20 Cen./Pro.   Short list   Limited    RSI       SOE
Prior
Individual <$50,000           1.3        10 Cen./Pro.  Short List  Limited    RSI        SOE
Prior
Others/c                      0.8         2  Central   Short List    Prior    TM         Full
5    NGO Grant                      0.7
Contracts<S100,000            0.5    N/A /d  Province    Others    Limited    TM         SOE
Prior
Contracts>S100,000            0.2         2  Province    NCB        Prior     TM         Full
6    Fellowships                    1.3      N/A  Cen./Pro.    Others    Limited    RSI        SOE
Prior
7    Training/Workshops            10.7      N/A  Pro./Dist.    Others    Random    SPN        SOE
Post
8    Project Management             2.2      N/A Cen/Pro/    Others    Random    SPN           SOE
Dist                 Post
a/ Prior review, random post review, and limited prior review (TOR, proposed program and draft contract).
b/ Supervision missions, Resident staff Indonesia, task manager.
c/ Firm>100,000; Individual>50,000.
d/ Not applicable.



- 88 -                        ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
MIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF AIDS EXPENDITURES
1.    This annex explains how the project benefits discussed in Chapter 5 were
calculated. This section also touches on other important dimensions of project economic
analysis, following EAP's guidelines on this topic.
2.    Estimating the number of AIDS cases: the iwg-AIDS model. Using Jakarta as an
illustration, the number of AIDS cases 10-15 years from now was estimated using the
iwg-AIDS, a deterministic model formulated by S.Seitz at the University of Illinois in
1989. The fourth revision of the iwg-AIDS model was used by M. Linnan, United States
Centers for Disease Control, in developing the projections for Indonesia which are
discussed below. Iwg-AIDS incorporates four interacting processes: demographic
(births, deaths, migration); host/virus contact (infectivity per contact, susceptibility per
contact, circumcision, and other factors bearing on risk of infection); sexual mixing
factors (marriage, divorce, rate of sexual contacts and number of partners); and modes of
infection (sexual, intravenous drug use, transfusion, and perinatal). Parameters relating to
these processes were taken from available data, or were estimated by Indonesian experts.
3.    Some of these parameters are as follows:
* Demographics: Birth, death, and migration data were drawn from the 1980
and 1990 censuses. The population is assumed to be 9 million.
*  Host/virus contact: Virus specific parameters were based on the major strains
being transmitted, which are related to those which predominate in Thailand.
The HIV "seed" used was 1000 in 1990. Infectivity and susceptibility were
based on the Thai strains. Circumcision rates were assumed to be 90%, and
condom use rates were estimated at 10% for high risk groups and below 5
percent for other groups. STD rates were set according to risk groups.
Inflammatory rates fell in the 0-12% range for sexually active adults, and
ulcerative rates were in the 0-10 % range.
*  Sexual mixing: Marriage and divorce rates were taken from the 1990 census
and cross checked with community surveys. Estimates for number of
partners, sexual contact rates, and sexual behavior specific parameters were
drawn from community surveys in urban Java and adjusted as needed by
Indonesian experts.
*  Mode of infection: all modes were built into the model; however, sexual
contact accounts for 95% of infections.
4.    Projection results. Based on the above parameters, a baseline projection was run,
which yielded the number of HIV-infected persons and number of persons with AIDS in



- 89-                        ANNEX 11
Jakarta at the mid-point of the year noted ( Annex 13, Tables 1 and 2, and Figure 1). The
baseline case projection was also used to observe the impact of project-related
interventions. Project impacts were introduced through various assumptions about the
phasing in of interventions and their eventual effectiveness. For example, service
interventions were assumed in scenario 2 (Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2) to be phased in
over two years, begininning in 1997, and to have achieved a 25 percent reduction in
STDs at the end of that two year span. Also in scenario two, the behavior change
interventions were assumed to take two years of piloting before becoming fully effective
and to result in a 25 percent decrease in specific risk behavior (casual sex, multiple
partners, and so forth) and a 25 percent use rate for condoms. The final effectiveness
figures were chosen in light of what has been achieved through comparable programs in
other developing countries. Scenario three assumes a five year phasing in of the project
but with the same ultimate effects as in scenario two (Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2), while
scenario four assumes a five year phasing in of the project and ultimate impacts which are
50 percent of those in scenarios two and three.
5.    Benefits--direct treatment costs. Treatment costs for AIDS patients were
estimated from data collected at Cipto Mangunkusomo Hospital in Jakarta and from
consultations with private hospitals (Annex 1). Costs included outlays on drugs, AIDS
tests, outpatient visits and hospital stays. Patients are assumed to live one year after
developing full blown AIDS. The estimated treatment cost in 1995, US$2700,
represents the arithmetic mean of costs in public and private facilities. AZT was not
included in the standard treatment regime and in the estimate of per patient costs, even
though some patients in private hospitals are being given this antiretroviral (which is
brought in from Singapore). At an 8 percent discount rate, the present value of these
costs arnounts to US$1251 per patient in 2005 and US$851 per patient in 2010; using a
10 percent discount factor these figures come to US$1041 in 2005 and US$646 in 2010.
6.    Benefits--indirect costs. The indirect costs of AIDS are assumed to be the
product lost to the economy due to the death of adults of working age. An average loss
per AIDS death of 25 years is assumed, and the provincial product per adult in Jakarta,
US$3400 in 1995, is used as the marginal product of labor. This figure is assumed to
grow at an annual rate of four percent. The estimate of per adult product is reduced by 20
percent in light of the disproportionate representation of lower income, possibly
unemployed individuals amongst those who get AIDS. Using an eight percent discount
rate, the present value of income lost for each person with AIDS in 2005 is US$29,132;
the estimate for individuals with AIDS in 2010 is US$24,118. Using a ten percent
discount rate, these figures come to US$19,840 in 2005 and US$14,990 in 2010.
7.    Project costs and benefits--net present value. The province of Jakarta will spend
US$8.8 million through this project to prevent HIV transmission, and an additional US$2
million will be spent under the central MOH budget through this project on activities in
Jakarta, resulting in overall project spending of roughly US$ 11 million. The overall
benefits attributable to the project were derived for different scenarios and discount rates (
Annex 11, Table 5); a notional rate of return was calculated for each cost and benefit



- 90 -                        ANNEX 11
stream (scenario). For each scenario, the cumulative number of deaths averted was
multiplied by total direct and indirect benefits per person for 2005 and 2010. For the
second scenario and using an 8 percent discount rate, total benefits, i.e. the direct and
indirect costs which are saved, are US$327 million through 2005 and US$1.78 billion
through 2010. The net present value of the combined benefits and outlays expected in this
scenario is US$140 for 2005 and US$551 for 2010. In scenarios three and four, the net
present value of the combined benefits and outlay stream is lower. For scenario three,
these amount to US$96 for 2005 and US$314 for 2010. For scenario four, the figures are
US$20 for 2005 and US$114 for 2010. Estimated net benefits, in present value terms,
using a 10 percent discount rate are shown in Table 5. In sum and looking ahead only as
far as 2005, the net present value of the project is quite substantial even when a 10
percent discount rate is applied. This is also the case when 2010 is taken as the cut-off
point. Perhaps, an even stronger economic rationale for the project emerges when the
number of HIV cases averted under the different scenarios, e.g., 90,000-12 1,000 in 2005,
is brought into the analysis. The projected cost per averted HIV infection is
approximately US$110, and if each HIV case causes a loss on average of at least ten
discounted "disability adjusted life years," then the project is purchasing a year of healthy
life for roughly US$11. Finally, taking account of individuals' willingness to pay (WTP)
to avoid pain, discomfort, and restrictions on non-work activities provides further
justification for the project. One recent study estimated that the implied value of a
statistical life in Indonesia was in the US$75,000-175,000 interval (World Bank, 1994).
This range of values is 2.5-5 times the estimated direct and indirect benefits per case
discussed above.
8.    More conservative premises. Scenarios were also developed based on more
conservative but unrealistic assumptions about risky behavior (Tables 3,4 and 6).
Specifically, couples were assumed to be monogamous and casual sex rates were
reduced. Despite such strigent and highly optimistic premises, the net present value of
the project remains very high under different scenarios, even when the impact of
interventions is phased in over five years and at reduced effectiveness and when a higher
discount rate is used. Moreover, the project retains its economic rationale even when
direct and indirect benefits (costs) per case are reduced by 50 percent (Table 6).
Checklist of Topics for Economic Analysis
9.    Linkage to CAS and ESW. The rationale for Bank involvement in Indonesia's
health sector is set out in the February 1995 CAS. That document identifies human
resource development including health as one of the focal points for Bank assistance, and
points to quality improvements through better resource use as an important challenge
within the health sector. This project is consistent with the approach the Bank has taken
towards quality improvement in other health projects: there is a focus on local
epidemiological needs and priorities and an emphasis on involving local authorities and
NGOs in designing and implementing interventions; efforts will be made to improve
availability of skills, drugs, and other inputs and to enable central units to provide
whatever technical assistance is needed. No formal ESW has been completed on HIV in



-91-                           ANNEX 11
Indonesia, but the Bank has used boxes in recent Indonesia CEMs and informal notes to
sustain a dialogue with GOI about AIDS. AIDS became part of the ongoing policy
dialogue with GOI in 1992, with discussion turning increasingly to the details of program
and policy design.
10.   Analysis of alternatives. The alternatives which were reviewed and rejected
included not responding with AIDS-related policies and interventions, at least in the near
term, and relying exclusively on government staff and facilities to deliver HIV-related
services. This topic is discussed further in the SAR, para.3.3. Also of relevance is the
paucity of lessons learned from projects in other countries. Most reported successes are
for limited trial initiatives which have been affected by various contextual factors. As a
pilot effort, this project is intended to help identify and explore various alternative
approaches, thereby generating Indonesia-specific examples which can help shape
national policy.
11.   Fiscal analysis and cost recovery. The fiscal impact of this small scale pilot
project is negligible. Many of the STD-related services to be strengthened are in the
private sector where cost recovery is extensive; fees and charges are also relatively high
in public facilities. A large share of project expenditures are one-time outlays, e.g., on
training, laboratory upgrading and health education campaigns, which will not need to be
fimded at similar levels later on. Sustainability is built into the project in other ways
including the emphasis on monitoring and evaluation, and the extensive involvement of
local governments and NGOs.
12.   Benefit-cost analysis. Using a range of assumptions, project benefits under
different scenarios were estimated and compared to estimated project expenditures (see
above). Some sensitivity analysis was carried out in regard to different assumptions
about sexual behavior and for different discount rates.
13.   Institutional analysis. Institutional issues are paramount in this project. The role
allocated to NGOs stems in part from concerns that government agencies and staff would
be unable to communicate effectively with and deliver services to many of those
engaging in high risk behavior. Similarly, the differentiation of roles at different levels of
government that is a defining feature of the design reflects an assessment that central
MOH can best play a technical support function.
14.   Poverty analysis. The likely higher incidence of HIV amongst the poor is
highlighted in Chapter 1 of the SAR. The prospective poverty impacts of the project are
summarized in para. 5.8 of the SAR.
15.   Environmental analysis. The project will support a study on current waste
disposal practices and recommended alternatives.
16.   Economic performance criteria. The indicators agreed with GOI for project
peformance assessment are discussed in Chapter 3 of the SAR.



- 92 -                           ANNEX 11
Table 1: Projections of Persons with AIDS, Jakarta
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
PWA(1) CPWA(1)  PWA(2) CPWA(2)  PWA(3) CPWA(3)  PWA(4) CPWA(4)
1993       75       300       75       300       75       300        75      300
1995      375      3000      375      3000      375      3000       375     3000
2000     3800    23000      3750    21000       3775    22500      3775    21500
2005     8500    55000      7400    50000       7800    51500      8000    54000
2010    17500   123000    13500   100500    15000   110000    15700   118000
PWA= persons with AIDS CPWA= cumulative persons with AIDS
Scenarios:  (1) Baseline, no project.
(2) Project begins in 1997, 3-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(3) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(4) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (12.5%) by 2000.
Table 2: Projections of Persons with HIV, Jakarta
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
PWH(1) CPWH(1)  PWH(2) CPWH(2)  PWH(3) CPWH(3)  PWH(4) CPWH(4)
1993    2500    12500       2500    12500      2500    12500      2500    12500
1995    8500    35000       8500    35000      8500    35000      8500    33000
2000   42500    80500    41000    75000    41500    70500    42000    77000
2005   75500   260000    63500   139000    68500   155000    71500   170000
2010  140000   340500    99500   241000   115000   250000   126500   320000
PWH= persons with HIV  CPWH= cumulative persons with HIV
Scenarios:   (1) Baseline, no project.
(2) Project begins in 1997, 3-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(3) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(4) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (12.5%) by 2000.



- 93 -                                        ANNEX 11
Figure 1: Projections of Persons with AIDS, Jakarta
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
140000
120000                                                                               C|A(3)
100000                                                              'PWA(
//>CPWA(2
80000
60000
40000CPA4
20000
0
1993               1995               2000               2005               2010
Figure 2: Projections of Persons with HIV, Jakarta
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
350000
300000
250000 -PWH(3)
200000
150000
100000
50000
0
1993              1995              2000               2005               2010



- 94 -                          ANNEX 11
Table 3: Projections of Persons with AIDS, Jakarta, Lower Sexual Activity Rates
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
PWA(I) CPWA(I)  PWA(2) CPWA(2)  PWA(3) CPWA(3)  PWA(4) CPWA(4)
1993      24       100       24       100        24      100        24       100
1995     105      1050       105     1050       105     1050       105      1050
2000    1550      9300      1450     9000      1450     9150      1500      9200
2005    4600    29750      3500    27000       3750    28000      4000    28500
2010    9700    74500       6750    45000      7500    52500      9000    72500
PWA= persons with AIDS CPWA= cumulative persons with AIDS
Scenarios:  (1) Baseline, no project.
(2) Project begins in 1997, 3-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(3) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(4) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (12.5%) by 2000.
Table 4: Projections of Persons with HIV, Jakarta, Lower Sexual Activity Rates
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
PWH(I) CPWH(I)  PWH(2) CPWH(2)  PWH(3) CPWH(3)  PWH(4) CPWH(4)
1993    1450      7250     1450      7250      1450     7250      1450     7250
1995    3200    12800      3200    12800      3200    12800       3200    12800
2000   17500    34500    16500    33500    17000    31500    17500    29000
2005   52500   178500    35000   110000    18000   139000    52000   174500
2010   78500   191000    42000   150000    60000   168000    70000   187500
PWH= persons with HIV  CPWTH= cumulative persons with HIV
Scenarios:   (1) Baseline, no project.
(2) Project begins in 1997, 3-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(3) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (25%) by 2000.
(4) Project begins in 1997, 5-year start-up, full impact (12.5%) by 2000.



- 95 -                                      ANNEX 11
Figure 3: Projections of Persons with AIDS, Jakarta, Lower Sexual Activity Rates
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
80000
70000                                                             LI
60000
50000
40000
30000                                                                        A
20000
10000
0
1993              1995               2000              2005               2010
Figure 4: Projections of Persons with HIV, Jakarta, Lower Sexual Activity Rates
Various Scenarios With and Without Project
200000 -_       _     _     _      _
180000  -
160000
140000
120000
100000                                 A2200
80000
60000
40000
20000
1993             1995            2000              2005             2010



- 96-                                 ANNEX 11
Table 5: Estimated Economic Benefits Associated with Different Project Scenarios,
Jakarta
Discount rate                           8%                                       10%
2005               2010                  2005                  2010
Direct medical costs       1251                  851                  1041                  646
per case*
Indirect costs per       29132                 24118                 19840                14990
case*
Total costs per case*    30383                 24969                20881                 15653
Number of cases        (2)   (3)   (4)    (2)    (3)    (4)    (2)    (3)    (4)    (2)    (3)    (4)
averted by scenario      5   3.5     1   22.5    13        5      5    3.5       1   22.5     13      5
(in thousands)
Net present value      140   96    20   551    314    114        94     62     10   341    192       67
(NPV) of project
outlays and benefits*
(US$ millions)                                                   _
Rate of return         41    36    20      40     35     27      38     33     17    39      34      25
* Present value
Table 6: Estimated Economic Benefits Associated with Different Project Scenarios,
Jakarta, Lower Rates of Sexual Activity
Discount rate                           8%                                       10%
2005                2010                 2005                 2010
Direct medical costs        1251                  851                 1041                  646
per case*
Indirect costs per        29132                24118                 19840                14990
case*
Total costs per case*     30383                24969                 20881                15653
Number of cases        (2)   (3)    (4)    (2)   (3)    (4)    (2)    (3)    (4)    (2)    (3)    (4)
averted by scenario    2.8   1.8    1.2  29.5    22        2    2.8    1.8    1.2  29.5    22         2
(in thousands)
Net present value       84    54     36   696   538       48     57     37     25   496   370        34
(NPV) of project
outlays and benefits*
(US$ millions)
Rate of return          32    27     22     43     40     19    30      24      19    41      38     18
NPV**                   32    16      8   358   264       14    18       8      2   220    161        5
Rate of return         24    18    14    36        34     14    21      16     12    35      32      13
* Present value
** Assumes flow of benefits is reduced by 50%.



IBD 27707
_'---%THAILAND                                                                                                               -                                           in                INDONESIA
-8=nh    PHILIPPINES 0  ,_HIV/AIDS AND STDs PREVENTION
-1_>3PHILIPPINES  /                                                             AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BRUNEIL
N    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~POETAREAS
''  C                                         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
( Modon         MALAYSIA           \/                                                                                                                                                             ROETRA
A                      '          /           _                                                                                      M I - C'   .   )   @  NATONAL CAPITAL
-   PROVNCE BOUNDARIES
12                                                                       MALAYSIA   5                                                                                                       INTERNATIONALC BOUNDARIES
*-;~. SINGAPORE                    2             P*-t                   1 7io                                                                                             1       N       30      -.       -
) 9    _2                                                                                                                             I4 HAIMAHEh'R _,  A0                         -o        -    < e '0 r        -
S U  <  A  T EE                              Fh onEoR_         14           )oodo -k 14
P.d.N9d I                            I_K A                                                IANIA8 0anaP l@-    .I.
-f dong@1                       >r/51 KALv                                   _'lE NTA~ . 
10 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
2  JAWA MEAT                          >Rol= AsMbo'                                         Pblongkoroyo        ..              /               SUIAWESI               .  5_\  5u
4  D I YOGYAKARTA                  )~ 8-                                                                      ~  16<_            20  .                         -jzr ~            ,  CERAM  _--                                         I RI#A N; 
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG 2EGU  5I   / b                                                                                          1
3  JAW 5UMATENIASI 5ELATAN              NJ                                                                                                                            K u j  -26j-> r-
2  JAWAIlBURATohl                                             ~-~-                                                                                                                                               
3 JAWA TENGAH                                     6~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~JY
6  LAMPUJNG                                                EILN                        -                                                       1 EOOIMb
7  BENGKULLI                                    6                                           ojrms            .-                                      -                                                                                             2A          b
9   SU M RA     SELATAN                                                      - ,  o                                                                                                                                                      -  _
9  RIAU          Lon,90n8                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uio-gpo-dong
1I  SUMATERA BARAT
12  SUMATERAUTARA                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 -
13  DI ACEH                                                JAKARTA
24  KALIWAMTAN  BARAT                                      2     ng
16  KAIIMAN   SELATAN                                       _ ort        000005i
17  KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                                                        5umL I,/ o
18  SULAWE51 TIENGAM 
19  SULAWEI1AAA                                                                                                            t      E- I  _                                           ,    -
20  SULAWESI SELATAN rAR22A/                                                                                        roo_  ry
21  SULAWESITENGGARA        rho  bodo.o- cIo,o. l@   /@                                                                5UMWAr -1C5_
22  BALI                    d-oo-oi    _ ond onr                                                  Danpo.. r     ombor_
23  NUSA TENGGARA BARAT     oth*' mhormoo  shoot                                                                         23      -              24
24  NUSATENGGARATIMUR        timo/y  on to  port ot           INClAN OCEAN                                                    '    5VMdA             Kupon
25  MALUKU                  TheWorld Book G-o.               IDA.OEN2
26  IRIAN JAYA                              h.Y o  d eon   1.oo l h                                                                                        _go
27  MIMOR nMUR              or oy  ndoosotA                                                                                                                                                                                  LI
JANUARY 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15118 IND
Type: SAR



