Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20566
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(39810)
ON A
LOAN
N THE AMOUNT OF US$ 24.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
HIV/AIDS AND STDS PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 16, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of April 2000)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 1 million = US$ 125.87
US$ 1 = Rp. 7,945
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome           KfW        Kredietanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
APBN       National Development Budget                   KPKN        Ministry of Finance Treasury Office
AusAID    Australian Agency for International Development    Localizatio Regulated CSW complex
n
Bappenas  National Development Planning Board            MCH        Maternal and Child Health
BLK        Provincial Laboratory                         MOF'        Ministry of Finance
BPKP       Central Audit Bureau                          MOH        Ministry of Health
CHE        Center for Health Education                   NAC        National AIDS Commission
CSW        Commercial Sex Worker                         NGO        Non-governmental Organization
DG of      Directorate General of Communicable Diseases  PAC        Provincial AIDS Commission
CDC-EH   Control and Environmental Health
Dinas      Local Government Health Office                Pimpro    Project Officer
Kesehatan
DIP        Project budget allocation                     PIU        Provincial Implementation Unit
DKI        Special region of Jakarta                     PMU        Project Management Unit
Jakarta
ELISA      Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assey             SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
GOI        Govemment of Indonesia                        SOP        Standard Operating Procedures
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus                  STDs        Sexually Transmitted Diseases
ICB        International Competitive Bidding             UNAIDS   The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
IEC        Information, Education, Communication         USAID      United States Agency for International Development
Kanwil    Ministry of Health Provincial Office           UJNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
Kesehatan
Keppres   Presidential Decree                            WHO         World Health Organization
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:        Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:       Alan Ruby, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Samuel S. Lieberman, EASH)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
(LOAN 3981)
HVAIDS AND STDS PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   13
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P039643                                      Project Name: ID-STD/AIDS
Team Leader: Samuel S. Lieberman                         TL Unit: EACIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ID-STD/AIDS                                   L/C/TFNumber: 39810
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/10/95                                Effective: 05/15/96           05/15/96
Appraisal:  08/15/95                                 MTR:
Approval:  02/27/96                                Closing: 09/30/99           09/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell J. Cheetham
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      NA-pls edit Roles in SAP                  Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:   Puti Marzoeki                            Samuel S. Lieberman
ICR Primary Author:   Puti Marzoeki
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objective was to develop institutional mechanisms and interventions for reducing the
transmission of STDs and AIDS by using intensive pilot efforts which would be monitored and evaluated
for the purpose of identifying the optimal interventions.
The proximate objectives included enhancing awareness about WHV and STD transmission and prevention



strategies in specific groups; promoting behavior change among those participating in risky sexual
activities; increasing the knowledge and skills of health providers who deal with STDs and HIV; improving
the capabilities of the health laboratory system as regards STDs and HIV; and establishing effective
surveillance mechanisms for STDs and WHV, and monitoring and evaluation systems to gauge the impact of
various interventions. The project was to be implemented in DKI Jakarta (Special Region of Jakarta) and
Riau provinces for a period of three years.
GOI acknowledged Indonesia's vulnerability to IHV and the negative economic impacts of a possible
epidemic. As early as 1986, MOH had established an AIDS working group which later became the Control
Committee that drew up short and medium term plans for HIV/AIDS prevention control. A National AIDs
Commission (NAC) was created later through a Presidential Decree dated May 30, 1994. The Committee
was chaired by the Coordinating Minister for People's Welfare, and involved 17 cabinet ministers including
the Minister of Health, Minister of Religious Affairs, Minister of Social Affairs and the State Minister of
Population as Vice Chairmen. An accompanying Ministerial Decree was released on the same year
providing guidelines in canying out HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs. While project objectives
were consistent with the direction of the national strategy, the intention to accomplish them in a short term
framework was ambitious, particularly since some of them involved behavior change targets. Moreover,
most of the tools to be used in the comprehensive program were still to be developed.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised throughout the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of provincial level components which addressed WV/AIDS and STDs interventions
in DKI Jakarta and Riau Province, and complementary central level activities. The provincial components
included: 1) IEC and behavioral interventions directed at various groups engaging in high risk behavior,
health providers and technicians, workplace and school audiences, and community organizations; 2)
biomedical services to support the training of staff in the syndromic approach and infection control
procedures, training of laboratory staff and purchase of equipment and materials needed to perform tests,
and stepping up of HIV and STDs surveillance activities; 3) management and support through the
establishment of a province level management unit and coordination functions to be carried out by the
provincial AIDS commission. Central support was to include guidelines, modules, standards and materials
development for both IEC and biomedical interventions; technical assistance; and research activities. The
whole approach was seen as a pilot since when the project was designed, HIV/AIDS control was a
relatively new program in Indonesia and there was no model for a comprehensive approach.
-2 -



Components              Cost (Appraisal)
US$ million
Jakarta:
IEC and Behavioral Interventions        4.9
Biomedical services                     4.3
Management and Support                  0.9
Riau:
IEC and Behavioral Interventions        2.9
Biomedical Services                     4.5
Management and Support                  0.8
Center:
IEC and Behavioral Interventions        3.5
Biomedical services                     11.7
Management and Support                   1.7
Total                                   35.2
The pilot was intended to produce a cost effective and sustainable intervention package to slow
transmission of HIV and STDs in Indonesia. The components reflected the need to comprehensively
address various behavior change and service delivery measures, accompanied by intensified surveillance.
More importantly, they also recognized the synergistic relationship between HIV and STDs. Considering
that the project was a pilot expected to yield short term results, a separate monitoring and evaluation
component would have given stronger emphasis on the need to draw lessons from the project. Having it as a
separate component would ensure resource allocation and full attention from the implementing agencies. To
ensure learning from non-biased information, an independent monitoring and evaluation unit could have
been considered. Assessment of project achievements, especially in pilot projects, would have been more
appropriate if the evaluation design was not limited to "pre and post" as was intended for the project, but
also included "with and without". Although design of the project indicated some process indicators, no
tracking system was designed to evaluate trials and methodologies. The absence of a plan to merge
monitoring data that tracks implementation of the project with impact assessment data would have made it
impossible to say whether the project failed to produce the intended changes or the intended changes failed
to produce the desired outcomes when the impact assessment indicated no difference between project and
no project.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the last year of the project (1999-2000), only the surveillance component continued to be
implemented and was limited to the dissemination of surveillance SOPs to eight provinces. Two new
activities were introduced: the External Assessment of HIV/AIDS and STDs in Indonesia, and the
preparation of HIV/AIDS and STDs Masterplans for Irian Jaya and Central Java.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project recognized the importance of combining prevention and management efforts and carefully
identified key factors influencing HLV transmission in Indonesia and the elements required to control the
spread of the disease. Consultants were recruited to develop important components including the laboratory
and surveillance systems. IlV/AIDS experts from CDC Atlanta were involved, as well as NGOs which
were experienced in high risk group interventions in Indonesia. The MOH preparation team was led by the
Bureau of Planning and consisted of all units related to HIV/AIDS control within MOH. The project
provinces participated actively during preparation by developing province specific proposals. However, the
- 3 -



Bank had overestimated the capacity of the implementing units and the DG of CDC-EH as the managing
unit, when conducting the institutional assessment. The capacity of the units might be adequate for a long
term project with enough time for capacity improvement during the first few years. But this was not the
case for this project. The project was of limited duration. It was also intended to plan and implement
numerous activities, involving multiple groups of people at numerous agencies as well as individuals in
different levels and locations. Due to the project's complex nature, it would be difficult to make effective
changes during implementation. The weak institutional assessment might have contributed to the difficulties
the project faced during implementation. More attention should also have been given to readiness for
implementation. The baseline surveys, consultants' TORs and procurement plan, modules and guidelines
should have been developed during preparation and they should have been available by negotiations or at
the latest by effectiveness.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The assumption underlying the project design was that HIV/AIDS was a real threat to Indonesia, although
it was not quite certain when the country would reach a stage where the number of HIV and AIDS cases
were going to increase at an exponential rate. In reality, until the end of the second year of the project,
reported AIDS cases were still below 300. This phenomenon had affected the level of government
commitment and ownership of the project which was reflected in the poor project performance. Baseline
data collection and needs assessment were not done during the first year as intended because guidelines
were not ready and no budget was allocated for the task. The activity was delegated to the provinces and
the NGOs. Results of the baseline, as shown by the provincial reports, did not reflect the performance
indicators agreed for the project. Final data collection was never scheduled and was not conducted until the
end of the project. Considering that the project was a pilot, measurement of project outcomes were
irnportant to assess effectiveness of the interventions. In the absence of a comprehensive baseline and final
data collection, project outcome was immeasurable. Based on these findings, the rating for project outcome
was unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. LEC and Behavior Change Interventions
The IEC interventions were targeted toward 5 main groups: the high risk groups, individuals in the
workplace and schools/universities, the community and the general public, and health providers. Numerous
media materials consisting of electronic as well as printed channels were produced during the project.
Electronic media items included radio spots, TV fillers and 16 mm films, while printed media materials
included posters, leaflets, T-shirts, handbooks, stickers, calendars, booklets, flipcharts, billboards and
banners.
No data were documented on the number of people who received training or participated in sessions to
increase awareness or change the behavior related to risky sexual practices. Monitoring of training
activities focused more on the training process. The effectiveness of the training sessions and the media
used in the training was inassessable due to the absence of post training evaluation.
The project recognized the high risk group as an important link in STDs and HIV transmission. IEC
interventions were intended to target these groups, particularly in regards condom use. Despite the
emphasis in the SAR on behavior change targets, the govemment's IEC approach, developed by the Center
for Health Education, chose to follow a national strategy aimed at increasing the awareness of the general
public. The difference of perception was a source of continuing methodological debate between GOI and
-4 -



the Bank, and contributed to reduced focus on the interventions.
The need to focus on high risk groups was also stressed by the consultant hired to assist CUE in developing
IEC methodology and implementing an effective IEC strategy. The concern was that government formal
institutions and the NGOs tended to concentrate on high risk groups within the "localizations" because they
were easy to identify and approach, while in reality the majority of high risk groups operated outside the
"localizations". The project was able to identify and list the high risk groups in DKI Jakarta and Riau
which ranged from street CSWs, drink and snack peddlers, street children, night club/bar/karaoke visitors,
tourist guides, pimps, massage parlour and beauty parlour workers to transvestites, ABGs (junior high and
high school students who gathered at malls and disco places looking for dates), sailors, fishermen, truck
drivers and about a dozen more groups. Unfortunately, until the project ended little IEC efforts were
directed to these specific groups. The peer group approach was considered effective for CSWs in
localizations, but little was learned about how to approach the other groups. The CHE was not providing
assistance to the provinces in reaching the so called "unreached" groups.
The role of NGOs in delivering the IEC component was very significant. They conducted CSW peer group
training, as well as training in schools and workplaces. Some NGOs were also involved in training health
providers on the syndromic approach and universal precaution. The NGOs proved effective in reaching the
high risk groups. Many CSWs and other high risk groups participated in NGO organized training sessions.
Other noted achievements including development of a network for patient referral among health centers and
hospitals in Jakarta as a follow up to the universal precaution training, involvement of an increasing
number of facilitators in universities and schools, and development of a supporting program for the
adolescents, and a CSW organization working on reproductive rights protection. The project realized that
despite their potential, many of these NGOs lacked adequate management capacity which made
sustainability of their activities a challenge. An NGO capacity building category was created to address
such concerns. Indeed, some capacity building efforts were tried during the project, including proposal
development training; management training; provision of grants as stimulants; pairing between smaller,
inexperienced NGOs and larger, well established NGOs; and establishment of an NGO communication
forum. Unfortunately, these efforts were not well planned and were more of a one time activity. Only about
17% of budget allocated in this category was utilized. The number of NGOs working on HIVIAIDS
increased dramatically during project implementation, but only the NGOs which were already active prior
to the project could maintain their activities after the project ended.
Despite their positive contribution, involvement of NGOs in the project was not easy. Although an NGO
involvement procedure was agreed during project negotiations, in practice, the Ministry of Finance
Treasury Office (KPKN) and the BPKP insisted that the NGOs were to be contracted according to Keppres
16, 1994, which regulates national procurement of goods, works and services. The NGOs, particularly the
smaller ones, had difficulties in fulfilling the requirements of Keppres 16. Such rules were debilitating for
the project, which by design intended to intensively involved the NGOs in delivering project activities. Not
until late 1998, was a Bappenas-MOF joint circular finally released to rectify the financial mechanism for
NGO involvement in GOI financed projects. Although the circular was produced much too late to be of use
for the project, the project succeeded in enabling fornal support for future NGO involvement.
The USAID funded HAPP (HlV/AIDS Prevention Project) launched condom social marketing activities
among others in North Jakarta at roughly the same time as the project. The activities were aimed at
increasing condom use among sex workers and their clients, increasing access to condoms and increasing
sales of condoms. The project reported respectively 10% and 6% increase in the number of sex workers and
clients reporting condom use in project areas after almost three years (1996-1999), and respectively 18%
and 26% increase in the sales of commercial brand condoms during the first quarter of 2000 compared to
-5-



the same period last year. Although not remarkable these were positive results. There were three things
that might have contributed to the relative success of the HAPP interventions compared to those of the
Bank funded project. First, the campaign was contracted to a professional private company; second, an
effective marketing strategy was implemented including distribution, promotion, advertising, public
relations, and media advocacy in collaboration with condom producers, non traditional condom selling
outlets, the media and NGOs; and third, research and solid monitoring and evaluation were used effectively
to support the campaign.
B. Biomedical services
The Biomedical services included development and testing of procedures relating to the syndromic
approach and universal precaution, enhancing surveillance activities, and improving laboratory support for
HIV and STDs testing.
Syndromic approach and universalprecaution training
Training modules for the syndromic approach training were not ready when the project started, and were
only made available to the provinces during the last year of the project. Since budget for the training was
already allocated during the first year of the project, the provinces had to use draft modules for the earlier
training batches. The training was done in single sessions with no follow up through refresher training or
continuous supervision efforts. No evaluation on health providers' knowledge and skills was conducted six
months post training as was required in the SAR. The capacity to procure drugs to support implementation
of the syndromic approach was not considered when planning the number of providers to be trained which
created discouragement for using the approach. Counseling, another important aspect of the syndromic
approach, was not constantly given to clients, particularly in relation to the importance of examining sexual
partners. Health providers in hospitals and health centers also received universal precaution training. Aside
from the number of trained providers, little information is available on post training follow up.
Four studies were implemented during the project. They were: Study on Infection Control, Study on
Microbiological Resistance, Study on STDs among pregnant women, and Study on STD Management
using the Syndromic Approach. These studies provided valuable inputs not so much for the project, but for
developing future policies and programs.
Surveillance
The surveillance component had similar problems. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) were only
finalized during the last year of the project. From the 8 SOPs initially drafted, only 2 SOPs, i.e., the SOP
for AIDS surveillance and the SOP for sentinel surveillance, were declared by the Bank ready for trial and
dissemination. The trial was later conducted using WHO funds. Assessment by the external expert team
hired by the project found some uncertainties at the provincial level about sampling frames, especially in
relation to non-localization sex workers and the lines of reporting.
Sentinel Surveillance was among others conducted in sex worker localizations. There were some
disadvantages in using those localizations. In DKI Jakarta, for example, the decision of the local
government to close down all sex worker localizations had disrupted surveillance activities in this province.
Another disadvantage was the high turn over of sex workers in the localizations, and this was true not only
for Indonesia.
Perfornance of the surveillance component was affected by the institutional set up within the DG of
CDC-EH. Beside a surveillance subdirectorate under the Directorate for Epidemiology and Immunization,
-6 -



there were separate surveillance units under subdirectorates of specific diseases, including one under the
subdirectorate of HfV/AIDS and STDs. This situation influenced division of responsibilities and affected
the working environment between the two subdirectorates. This was a sensitive issue and might have been
beyond the project to resolve, but the condition had contributed to delays in finalizing the SOPs and poor
quality of the initial drafts.
Overall, the surveillance component still needed a lot of strengthening. Behavioral surveillance was the
least developed, little information was available on this. On HIV serosurveillance, the guidelines should be
strengthened to ensure that implementation is clear on the type of target groups, sampling procedures and
lines of reporting from district to province to national level while still allowing some flexibility at the
provincial level. The protocol for surveillance in large STD clinics and in tuberculosis patients should be
introduced and implemented. Collaboration with NGOs in reaching the marginalised population groups to
participate insurveillance activities needs to be explored. Surveillance on transvestites and injecting drug
users is still to be strengthened.
Laboratory component
The laboratory component consistently followed project design. Centers of excellence were established in 4
cities: Jakarta, Medan, Surabaya, and Ujung Pandang. Two staff from each center were trained at the
National Reference Laboratory at the Cipto Mangunkusumo hospital with the assistance of an international
consultant in 1997. From these four centers, only Surabaya fully functioned as a center of excellence in a
sense that it conducted confirmation tests, served as an anchor in quality assurance, carried out training and
gave guidance to provincial laboratories in its catchment area. The other three centers lacked the Western
Blot equipment to do the confirmation testing, due to the failure in completing the second ICB package.
Surabaya got its Western Blot equipment from JICA. Eight provincial laboratories (BLKs), six hospitals in
Riau and five hospitals in DKI Jakarta received equipment and their staff were trained to improve capacity
in HIV and STD testing. Some staff from private health laboratories also participated in the training.
Quality assurance activities were ongoing and the results were satisfactory. The main constraint for this
component was that not all intended equipment, including the Western Blot, was procured due to problems
in following ICB procedures. And this influenced the performance of the laboratories particularly that of
the centers of excellence. Five million dollars worth of reagents were not procured because national needs
for reagents were already fulfilled through APBN allocations for the DG of CDC-EH. Had this been
disclosed during project preparation, the loan size could have been reduced by 20%. This was a surprising
finding , particularly because the project was implemented during the time when the country was in the
middle of the economic crisis and rupiah resources were very limited. GOI could have taken advantage of
the resources made available by the project. What happened indicated inadequate coordination and
communication between the Center for Health Laboratories and the DG of CDC-EH.
Most of the testing carried out by the provincial BLKs was for surveillance purposes. Their use by the
general public for HIV testing is still limited. Supply of kits for both rapid tests and ELISA for the BLKs
prior to decentralization was the responsibility of the central government. With decentralization, assuring
regular supply is a potential problem. Despite the advocacy from the central level, there are risks that the
provinces put less priority on allocating money to sustain HIV/STD testing at the BLKs.
Ongoing quality assurance system for IRV antibody testing appeared to function well. Proficiency panels
were sent regularly to the BLKs, and results of the evaluation were reviewed and feed back was given by
the Center for Health Laboratories as well as the international consultants. More attention should be given
to variation in test performance caused by storage, transportation and operator competency. The national
guidelines and systems for external quality assurance of HIV test kits and testing procedures may need to
be strengthened to accommodate those concerns.
-7 -



Despite the failure to purchase the reagents and uncertainty about funding sources for maintaining the
functions of BLKs, in general the laboratory component has fulfilled the intended project objectives
satisfactorily.
C. Management and support
Over the course of the project, project management unit functioned ineffectively, resulting in frustration for
all parties involved. The continuing problems in coordination, DIP planning, NGO contracting, lack of
management control systems and delays in SOP/module development that hampered the logical sequence of
activities, were symptoms that signaled more fundamental problems.
At the time the project was designed, MOH was expected to take proactive leadership to assume the new
tasks and responsibilities imposed by the threat of the AIDS epidemic. This was reasonable justification for
institutional adjustrnents. Moreover, the prevention and management notion of the project, and the desire to
develop institutional mechanisms to support the program were ambitious goals to be achieved in a three
year period. Such endeavor required a strong project management support, more than what was customary
for traditional projects. Under such standpoint, the Project Management Unit (PMU) at the central level
was established to have Echelon II functions. Its scope of work included providing technical support to
central and provincial structural units, coordinating the activities of four echelon two level units at the
central level, i.e. the Directorate of Directly Transmitted Diseases, Directorate of Epidemiology and
Immunization, Center for Health Education and Center for Health Laboratories, and finally, coordinating
all HIV/AIDS donor funded projects in Indonesia. In practice, this arrangement was the source of conflict
for most of the project life time because the tasks of the PMU duplicated those of the STD subdirectorate
under the Directorate of Directly Transmitted Diseases. The problem was enhanced by the appointment of
a person with no structural position to become the Project Manager who reported directly to the Director
General of CDC-EH. The person had difficulties establishing his authority in coordinating Echelon II level
officers involved in the project.
The organization structure was a deviation from more traditional projects in which the PMU was headed by
an Executive Secretary who was responsible for project administrative matters only, and reported to the
Project Director through a structural Echelon II Project Manager.
Project planning, particularly budget allocation, was a problem from the start. In FY 1996/1997 (project
first year), counterpart budget was missing for all components except for the biomedical component at the
DG of CDC-EH. DIP revision procedures were complex and lengthy. When the budget was finally made
available, only about 3 months were left for implementation. Adjustrnents were hardly done during the
following year. Despite the activities carried over from the previous year, a full program as outlined in the
project cost tables was entered into the DIPs, bringing heavy workload for the implementing units. The
importance of sequencing of activities was lost on the project. The central level allocated fund for
module/SOP preparation and training of the trainers during the first year of the project, while the fund for
the training itself was allocated at the provincial DIPs for the same year. When central activities were
delayed, and there were only 3 months to complete non-carried over activities, the provinces had no choice
but to conduct training without proper guidelines.
During implementation, consultants, international as well as national, were hired to support the PMU as
well as the implementing units. Consultant perforrnance, when assessed against the utilization of products,
varied across implementing units. Most of their products were recommendations. Visible products were
quality assurance systems for the laboratories and SOPs for surveillance and STDs and HIV/AIDS
services. For most of the national consultants, participating units could not state clearly whether the
- 8 -



consultant services were satisfactory. Unclear outputs from these consultants reflected their unclear scopes
of work and lack of control from the users on the quality of their work.
Since the project was a pilot effort, monitoring and evaluation were discussed lengthily in the project
documents. However, throughout the project there was almost no systematic monitoring to track the
process of carrying out activities for program implementation, or evaluation to measure progress of the
project towards its objectives, i.e., outcome objectives which specified changes in behavior or services as a
result of project activities; and impact objectives which described expected changes in STD/H1V incidence
and prevalence. Although a draft guidelines for baseline data collection was available, only a few people
were aware of the need to collect baseline information, and no final data collection was scheduled or carried
out until the end of the project. As the result, the effectiveness of most interventions was not measurable.
Project management at the provinces was too dependent on central guidance and was lacking initiatives to
cover for central weaknesses. In Riau, the PIU functioned more effectively because its head was the head of
Dinas Kesehatan and therefore guaranteed project implementation. The executive secretary was at Kanwil
Kesehatan and Pimpros of the project were also at Kanwil Kesehatan. The mixture of Kanwil and Dinas
personnel at the PIU facilitated linking between project technical and financial aspects. In DKI Jakarta, on
the other hand, all PIU members including the executive secretary were at the Dinas Kesehatan office while
all Pimpros were at Kanwil Kesehatan. This arrangement created some coordination problems between
project implementers at Dinas Kesehatan and the Pimpros at Kanwil Kesehatan..
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the design, project benefit was calculated based on the direct (treatment costs) and indirect (the product
lost to the economy due to the death of adults of working age) costs saved by averting a certain number of
deaths from AIDS. The number of HIV and AIDS cases was predicted using the iwg-AIDS projection
model. Based on the model, the predicted cumulative figures for AIDS cases in Jakarta alone was 55,000
by 2005, and 123,000 by 2010. In reality, the DG of CDC-EH reported only 253 AIDS cases throughout
Indonesia by August 1998. The actual number of reported cases is far too low for applying the scenario of
calculating the economic rate of return based on savings from direct treatment costs of AIDs cases as well
as indirect economic benefits as was intended. Therefore, the ERR was not calculated for this ICR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is negligible except for improvement of the capacity of the four center of
excellence laboratories, six provincial health laboratories, eleven hospital laboratories, and some private
laboratories. As explained previously under the Management and Support paragraphs, the goal to develop
institutional mechanisms to support HIV/AIDS management efforts was not achieved.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was designed and implemented at the time when the possibility of H1V/AIDS epidemic in
Indonesia was a major concern for a large number of donor agencies. The Bank project was implemented at
the same time with at least 7 other donor funding AIDS-Related Activities. These donors were: UNAIDS,
WHO, AusAID, USAID, KfW, UNFPA and the European Union. Although each worked on different
programs and geographical areas, the demand for time of the GOI counterpart at the central level was
substantial. Combined with the poor GOI coordinating role, this adversely affected the quantity and quality
of time given by the central units to this project. Delays in finalizing guidelines and modules were partly
-9-



related to the excessive workload of central staff.
The economic crisis which hit the country in 1997 also had a negative impact on the project. Some
activities could not be implemented due to lack of counterpart budget. ICB was delayed in part because
Letters of Credit from Indonesia were rejected by foreign banks. The crisis also forced GOI to make
savings from development budget allocations. In FY 96/97, the APBN budget for the whole country was
frozen for about four months pending the results of negotiations between GOI and IMF.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Strict government regulation and procedures based on Keppres 16, 1994 were applied to all NGOs, despite
the guidelines and supporting legal documents agreed during project negotiations. The difficulties of the
NGOs in complying with those regulations caused significant delays in implementing activities contracted
to the NGOs. The problem was not resolved until late 1998, when a Bappenas-MOF joint circular was
finally released rectifying financial mechanisms for NGO involvement in GOI financed projects.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project organization at the central level included a unit responsible for technical as well as
administrative matters. Inclusion of technical responsibilities proved to be counter productive. There was
constant conflict with the subdirectorate of STDs and HIV/AIDS within the DG of CDC-EH. The
weakness of project management structure was magnified by staffing problems. The decision to change the
structure of the PMU and its staffing was made very late in the project The weak PMU deprived the
project of the strong management support needed to guide and coordinate the various implementing units
involved in implementing a three year project. The missing counterpart budget during the first year of the
project, lack of guidance in conducting baseline data collection, the absence of a systematic project
monitoring and evaluation, lack of coordination among the implementing units, and NGOs contracting
problems were some of the main problems causing poor project performance.
5.4 Costs and financing.
The project disbursed very little while it was being implemented. US$ 19.8 was canceled on August 26,
1999, a year before project closing date. Each component absorbed less than 20% of the allocated budget.
Factors affecting low disbursement among others were overly ambitious allocation during project
preparation, very limited activities during the project first year due to the missing counterpart budget,
unsuccessful ICB procurement, unrealized reagent procurement, and the huge increase of the exchange rate
during the economic crisis.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability for this project is unlikely due to high dependency on project resources. Activities have not
been sustained since the project ended. The current CDC budget allocation in central DIPs is limited for
conducting serosurveys and sentinel surveillance. Some funds are available from the local government at
the provincial level, mostly to fund meetings of the PAC (Provincial AIDS Commission). There is also
concern over the continuity of reagents and testing kits provision for the provincial laboratories. Despite
possible problems in acquiring laboratory supplies, the achievement of the laboratory component as a
whole is relatively more sustainable than that of the other project components. The unit is committed to
conducting the external quality assessment by maintaining contact with the international consultant
recruited by the project to assist in the development of the STD and IV/AIDS testing system. The
consultant sends the proficiency panel regularly to monitor the performance of the centers of excellence.
Results of the proficiency panel evaluation are satisfactory.
- 10-



The sustainability of the IEC interventions is affected by the characteristics of the target groups. The peer
group activities, for example, although considered effective, are prone to high turn over of facilitators as
well as the CSWs. These peer group activities were practicable because of the existence of the CSW
localizations. The DKI Jakarta policy to close down CSW localizations in Jakarta has made these activities
hard to sustain. Such policy has also affected the utilization of CSW localization as sentinel surveillance
areas. Currently, sentinel surveillance is carried out in 14 Indonesian provinces and CSW localizations are
consistently chosen as the primary sentinel areas. Although sentinel surveillance is also carried out in a
number of other population groups, the range of groups chosen across Provinces and in different years
makes it somewhat difficult to use these results to establish national trends or patterns. Continuing pressure
from religious groups throughout the country might force other provincial governments to close down
CSW localizations in their areas, and thus affecting sustainability of surveillance data.
Many NGOs involved in implementing the behavior change component in the project have discontinued
their activities due to lack of other funds. This is attributable to two things; first, the project triggered the
setting up of new NGOs which were less experienced and had less credibility with funding agencies;
second, the capacity building efforts tried in the project had limited success in making these NGOs self
sustaining.
Sustainability of funding for overall STDs and HIV/AIDS program is strongly affected by the reduced
budget resources for health caused by the economic crisis in the country. Transition to decentralization has
given the authority to allocate central budget resources to the provincial level. HIV/AIDS has to compete
for resources with other more prevalent diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and dengue.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The most valuable output for this project is perhaps the recommendations resulting from the external
assessment conducted at the end of the project. Based on the recommendations, GOI prepared a plan
consisting of main activities and supporting activities related to the prevention and management of
HI V/AIDS and STDs. The SOPs, training modules, IEC materials and methods, and the laboratory system
developed during the project are useful resources to support the plan. This plan has been introduced to the
provinces as guidelines for developing local specific plans. Eight provinces met in Batam island during the
last year of the project to discuss among others future operations after the project ended. It was agreed that
the provinces would adopt the holistic prevention and management model developed in Riau and DKI
Jakarta consisting of STDs and HIV/AIDS surveillance, behavior surveillance, IEC activities on high risk
groups and general population, establishing STD clinics, counseling, laboratory activities including blood
screening, care and treatment. But as was previously mentioned, it is up to the provinces whether to regard
HIV/AIDS control as their priority and whether they are ready to allocate money to support a
comprehensive STDs and HIV/AIDS intervention.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at the lending stage was satisfactory. The designed project comprehensively addressed
crucial aspects influencing STDs and HIV/AIDS transmission. Although seven other donor funding
HIV/AIDS related activities were already or about to be implemented at the time the project was prepared,
each worked in different geographical areas, and none was design as a broad HIV/AIDS and STDs
approach. The SAR recognized the need to coordinate with the other donors and arranged for the PMU to
play the coordinating role. The importance of having a strong management team was flagged during the
preparation as well as appraisal missions. Potential problems for recruiting NGOs was anticipated early,
- 1 1 -



resulting in the attachment of guidelines and procedures for NGO involvement in the minutes of
negotiations as well as the loan agreement. Unfortunately, the guidelines and procedures were insufficient
to facilitate NGO involvement in the project. What agreed was during negotiations was not communicated
to MOF offices (KPKN) at the field level.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was unsatisfactory. The first supervision mission although carried out during the first
year was late for a short term project. When problems were identified, and some corrective actions were
taken, there was little time left in the first year to complete planned activities. The mission was inundated
by superficial irregularities, while missing more fundamental problems concerning overly ambitious
expectations, unrealistic targeting, and unrealistic assumption of the course of the -V/AIDS epidemic that
should have resulted in adjustments of project objectives. Bank missions were also less aggressive in
pushing for changes in project management structure and staffing. Immediate appointment of a senior
project advisor in response to ineffective management arrangements, for example, might have been able to
improve project management performance. The project was rated a problem project around midterm and
remained that way until it was closed. In view of the problems the project was facing, GOI was requested
by the Bank to prepare a new proposal with a fresh outlook on HIV/AIDS status in Indonesia and the
appropriate interventions. This effort was not successful in reviving the project, GOI's proposal was
rejected, and during the last year of the project, the Bank only approved the implementation of very limited
activities including the dissemination of surveillance SOPs, implementation of an external assessment on
WHV/AIDS and development of masterplans for Irian and Central Java. Suspension or cancellation of the
project was considered as an unpopular alternative because of the sensitivity of the HIV/AIDS issue.
When project supervision responsibilities were moved to the field, supervision missions became rare.
Closeness of the task manager to day to day project undertakings did not strengthen supervision, as a
matter of fact, it made conducting regular supervision missions seemed unimportant. The project received
even less attention when the country was hit by the economic crisis. The Bank as well as the Government
were preoccupied with crisis response efforts and little time was available for supervising this project.
The Bank was unsuccessful in developing a conducive atmosphere with the govemment. The govermuent
felt intimidated by the Bank, and interactions were rather tense. Available records indicated that the Bank
was often late in releasing no objection letters.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance of the Bank particularly during supervision and completion was less than satisfactory.
The project received little attention from the sector unit even after it remained a problem project for a long
tine. The situation should have triggered collective efforts from the headquarters as well as the field office
to salvage the project. The Bank for example had failed to request for or to bring additional support to the
project as it became apparent that the project was in jeopardy. The PSRs (Project Status Reports),
although prepared regularly, were more of an administrative requirement rather than a tool to control the
quality of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance on preparation was satisfactory. When the project was prepared, consciousness
about the threat of an AIDS epidemic in the country was high, resulting in strong commitment from the
borrower to project design and objectives. The teamwork between the government, consultants and the
World Bank was excellent. Both project provinces participated actively in preparing specific provincial
proposals. Local NGOs were involved particularly in designing the behavior change component of the
- 12 -



project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. Project management did not take advantage
of the project steering committee which comprised of intersectoral high level officials. The committee was
chaired by the Secretary General of MOH, and comprised of relevant echelon two staff from the Ministry
of Health, the National AIDs Commission, Bappenas, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Home Affairs and
the Project Manager. They hardly ever convened. The first meeting did not happen until the second year of
the project. In the occasional meetings held, attendance was often delegated to staff.
The influence of the National AIDs Commission (NAC) on the project was minimum. The initial high level
commitment on the national strategy was not supported by budget allocation to facilitate coordination.
After the project launching workshop, interactions with the NAC tended to be passive. Despite its
coordinating function, no regular reports were submitted to the commission for review and follow up.
Allocation of counterpart budget was neglected during the first year of the project, causing lengthy
revisions. The second year of the project coincided with the height of the economic crisis in the country.
Limited government resources, and government policy to freeze project spending throughout the country for
several months effected the timeliness and completeness of the steps required to carry out planned
interventions.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory. Except for the project's last year, the
weakness of the Project Management Unit at the central level had significantly affected project
performance. Poor performance was reflected in very low disbursement, problems in procurement, and
delayed submission of audit reports. Lack of management monitoring and evaluation tools had prevented
the PMU from anticipating and making timely response to implementation problems.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. Aside from the weak advocacy on the part of MOH,
commitment made at the echelon one level did not reach implementers at the ground level. Commitment to
the project was questionable as seen in the failure to put a strong project management team in place.
Support from other agencies and sectors, e.g., MOF for enabling NGO involvement, was minimal. The
intersectoral steering committee gave very limited attention for the project even when the project faced
serious problems that led to cancellation of a large part of the loan. The waning commitment to the project
was not only caused by the government preoccupation with the crisis response but also by the realization
that an intensive HIV/AIDS intervention might be premature since Indonesia was not experiencing an
exponential increase in HIV/AIDS cases as predicted would happen during the life time of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
The project was successful in developing a laboratory system to support HIV/AIDS and STD testing and
surveillance, unfortunately support from the other components was negligible. As the result, the project was
not able to produce a comprehensive model of proved effectiveness for the prevention and management of
HIV/AIDS and STDs. Bank supervision was ineffective in pushing attainment of project goals.
Project Design
The project was ambitious in its design and objectives. It planned to address all aspects of HIV/AIDS
prevention and management from the supply as well as the demand side. However, the three year project
period was too short for achieving behavioral change targets, particularly since most guidelines, manuals,
- 13 -



modules and IEC materials were still to be developed during the first years of the project. The project was
also weak in its monitoring and evaluation design.
Project Management
The decision to establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) led by a Project Manager who was
responsible not just for project administration but also for technical matters proved to be counter
productive. Appointment of a person with no high structural background in MOH's organization to become
the Project Manager had created further problem, because the person had no authority over echelon two
officers, who by their structural positions, were responsible for technical matters. There was constant
conflict and miscommunication about technical issues between the PMU and the units responsible for
HIV/AIDS and STDs management within the DG of CDC-EH. Future projects should consider
maintaining the traditional arrangement in which the PMU is led by an Executive Secretary who is
responsible for overseeing project administrative matters only and reports to the Project Manager.
However, the unit should also be responsible for facilitating communication among the technical units at
the central level, and between the central and the regional implementing units. The Project Manager should
be someone with a high enough structural level within the MOH organization structure, and therefore have
the authority to coordinate the work of the implementing units which most of the time are headed by
echelon II officers. Appointment of the Project Manager and Executive Secretary should be agreed by both
the Bank and the government at negotiations at the latest
Monitoring and Evaluation
The project was a pilot that had to deal with numerous activities in a short time frame, involving multiple
groups of people, numerous agencies and individuals in different locations. The challenge to the monitoring
and evaluation component was to quickly detect and respond to problems of implementation, and also to be
able to give information on what worked or did not work. This important component was neglected by GOI
as well as by Bank supervision missions. Poor monitoring and evaluation of the project contributed
significantly to poor project performance and to difficulties in assessing effectiveness of project
interventions. While project monitoring should be kept within the responsibilities of the project management
unit, delegating project evaluation to a third party should be considered, particularly for pilot projects.
Role of NGOs
NGOs were effective for reaching the high risk groups, but most of them were wary about administrative
requirements. Therefore, regulations such as Keppres No. 16, 1994 could not and should not be applied to
NGO contracts. NGOs, especially the smaller and newer ones, had difficulties in meeting contracting
requirements that were used in the regular bidding process. Special procedures were needed to facilitate
NGO involvement in govermnent financed projects. The NGO guidelines agreed during negotiations were
ineffective, because unlike circulars and decrees, minutes of negotiations are not widely distributed and are
not considered as a binding document. It was proved that the Bappenas-MOF circular on NGO recruitment
released during the end of the second year was helpful in moving the project. Another alternative such as
awarding grants to NGOs based on review of their proposals was not tried in the project but can be
considered for future projects.
The project correctly put an NGO capacity building component in the project, which was directed
particularly at smaller NGOs with strong ties to particular groups of interest. However, the government
who controlled the funds was inexperienced in working with NGOs, and lacked creativity in designing
capacity building activities, hence the limited disbursement of the NGO capacity building category. In view
of this experience, future projects involving NGOs might need to consider recruiting NGO specialists
attached to the provincial irnplementing units. The project had triggered the development of new NGOs.
However, many were not able to maintain their work when the project was over. To sustain the activities,
- 14 -



future projects should be more selective in involving NGOs. The NGO should be credible in that it is self
sufficient financially, and has good management capacity. It should also be experienced in its field which is
proven by its track records, and has an adequate number of qualified staff.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project financed by the World Bank was
implemented for three years (1996 to 1999) in two provinces, i.e., DKI Jakarta and Riau.
The project was designed using accurate HIV/AIDS management principles but some problems occurred in
implementation due to improper assessment of local condition including lack of capable personnel
especially at lower administrative levels, lack of NGO both in number and capability, weak coordination
among those involved in the project, and excessive workload of personnel of the implementing units. Delay
in releasing project funds (DIP) had made the project unable to complete the activities as planned and to
optimally absorb the allocated funds.
In addition to these constraints, Indonesia was hit by the monetary crisis that forced the project to severely
reduce its budget. In the beginning of the three-year project, US$ 24.8 million was planned for Bank
financing, or 70% of the total costs estimated to run the project. US$ 10.4 million was to be allocated by
the Indonesian Government as project counterpart budget. Total project cost was US$ 35.2 million or equal
to Rp. 41 billion (exchange rate US$ l=Rp. 2,370). One year after the start of the project, Indonesia was
hit by the monetary crisis and project fund was reduced. With the drastic decline in the value of rupiah (the
lowest rate was Rp. 10,600 to the dollar in 1998/1999), US$19.8 million was canceled. Until the end of the
second year, the project had only absorbed about Rp. 25.5 billion. About 7.5 billion rupiah was allocated
for conducting activities during the last year of the project (April I to September 30, 1999).
Various government regulation (Keppres 16/1994) and other bureaucratic procedures, both from the
Indonesian government and the World Bank, had slowed down the implementation of the project. On the
other hand, the project team did not give prompt responses to the critics and suggestions given by the Bank
evaluation missions. Early correction and improvement would have yielded better achievement.
Inspite of the constraints and obstacles, the project had made a number of positive results for HIV/AIDS
and STDs management in Indonesia. Some noted achievements were:
1. Concrete involvement of the local government and the AIDs management committees in Riau and DKI
Jakarta in the prevention and management of HIV/AIDS.
2. Establishment of eight SOPs for H[V/AIDS and STDs surveillance, STD treatment using the
syndromic approach, microbiological tests, AIDS management, AIDS and TB co-infection, AIDS
treatment at home, and STD and MCH integrated service.
3. Development of training modules and IEC materials (posters, pamphlets, filler, films, stickers, and so
forth) for HIV/AIDS and STD prevention.
4. Increased number of NGOs involved in the management of HIV/AIDS in Jakarta (19 NGOs) and Riau
(41 NGOs).
5. Increased number and management capacity of many laboratories in Indonesia in the HIV and STD
testing, particularly in the pilot project sites.
6. Training of health workers in DKI Jakarta and Riau on the treatment of STDs using the syndromic
- 15-



approach and universal precaution.
7. Prevalence studies and mapping of high risk groups in Jakarta and Riau.
8. Overseas fellowship for two laboratory technicians and two IEC specialists.
9. An integrated clinic in Riau specializing in STD treatment.
10. Fresh assessment of HIV/AIDS and STDs in Indonesia.
11. Trainers and laboratory technicians to implement the SOPs on HIV Sentinel and AIDS surveillance in
8 provinces (North Sumatera, Riau, South Sumatera, DKI Jakarta, West Java, Central Java, Maluku
and Irian Jaya).
Project personnel as well as implementers had gained many useful experience in canying out this project.
Working with staff from different levels of administration in different departments and with the NGOs was
a very useful experience. Experience in carrying out surveys, developing SOPs, designing training modules
and IEC materials, and conducting laboratory tests for STDs, had contributed to the improvement of
managerial and technical skills of project personnel and program staff. Even the severe budget cut had
served a positive purpose, in that it stimulated the creativity and motives of all parties involved in the
project to achieve optimal results.
Given the positive experience and the availability of laboratory equipment and technical skills for
conducting HIV/AIDS tests, project activities should be maintained. Financing can come from international
donor agencies or from the Indonesian government through the APBN or APBD. At least, the IEC,
counseling skills and laboratory skills for STD testing should be maintained and if possible improved. The
laboratory equipment purchased during the project should also be maintained for long lasting use. In
addition, a study needs to be done to fmd out about behavior change among people who had received I-V
information, training and counseling. Additional IEC activities should be provided if necessary to reinforce
the newly adopted behavior and to guarantee its sustainability.
The Ministry's performance during project implementation:
3  Unavailability of counterpart budget had delayed project implementation during the first year, both at
the central and regional levels. The delay had reduced implementation period to only 3 months, forcing
the implementing units to move the larger part of the activities to the second year.
*   DIP revision was very slow causing delays to project implementation.
*   Due to the complex organizational structure, personnel recruitment for the project was difficult and
took a long time, preventing the organization from functioning optimally as expected. Personnel
recruitment was not based on competency as required by each job and had sacrificed professionalism.
Many project staff at the regional offices did not work full time as was requested by the Bank.
*   Project staff was often changed, hampering the continuation of project activities.
*   Several project teams did not function optimally and had failed to provide the PMU with requested
advice and guidance.
*   MOH high level officers did not elaborate further the PMU's extensive tasks and functions as described
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). This had caused organizational conflicts, overlaps and problems
in decision making.
* The project did not promptly respond to the findings and recommendations of the World Bank
evaluation team. Early correction and improvement would have yielded better project achievements.
*  MOH high level officers often made decisions without clarifying the reasons to the PMU and hence
created problems and questions.
* Some policies were made verbally, not in writing, e.g., the prohibition for using fellowship for short
courses, and termination of SOP pre-testing without a clear explanation.
*   The project and MOH were not strong enough in giving arguments to defend their standpoints during
negotiations with the Bank and other institutions.
- 16 -



* The project faced numerous obstacles since early in the project resulting in inability to absorb funding.
In the second year, the country was hit by the monetary crisis that became worse during the lifetime of
the project. Funding allocated in the first two years grew while absorption capacity declined. Upon
request the PMU developed and submitted a new proposal for the project that was later rejected by the
Bank.
* Inspite of the difficult condition, PMU at the Center and PIU in the regions and the entire program
implementers had done their best to carry out the project. The hard work had resulted in the
achievement of a number of crucial activities. One such activity was hiring consultants as well as
domestic consultants to carry out a fresh assessment on HIV/AIDS and STDs in Indonesia.
Meanwhile, the salaries of the project staff were drastically cut during the last year of the project, e.g.,
the project manager's salary was reduced from Rp. 3,500,000 to Rp. 150,000, while a driver's salary
was cut from Rp. 350,000 to Rp. 42,000. These salaries were unreasonably low particularly for non
active civil servants working full-time for the project. The project regretted that MOH had failed to
negotiate this matter with Bappenas.
The Bank's performance during project implementation:
* In general, the Bank and related government organizations such as Bappenas and MOF were very
supportive in assisting the project to overcome various difficulties. Meetings were organized to solve
problems particularly during the first two years of the project.
*  Nevertheless, the Bank had shown little understanding on the problems of the project, especially on
those caused by external factors.
*  The Bank was too strict in assessing project performance. Some of its decisions were questionable and
had discourage the moral of project staff. Some staff thought that the Bank intervened to much on
project matters.
=  The Bank's team paid little attention to the cause of the problems. People doubted the expertise of Bank
team members. The project would be better if supervised by a team which members had expertise in
different areas e.g., biomedical services, IEC, laboratory and project management.
Future arrangement of HIV/AIDS prevention and care in Indonesia:
When the project ended in September 1999, the country was at a transition towards decentralization which
reduced the role and power of the central government. Most foreign assisted HIV/AIDS project in
Indonesia will be closed in year 2000, although some will be extended to 2003/2004. With decentralization,
the planning of the future arrangement for HIV/AIDS prevention and care will be in the hands of the
regional government. Activities conducted will be subject to approval by the local legislative body (DPRD).
However, the central government has established a national plan consisting of main and supporting
activities to be used by the provinces as guidelines in developing local specific plans. The design of the
national plan draws heavily on the results of the External HIV/AIDS Assessment and the Consensus
Workshop held in Jakarta in September 1999.
Activities in the national plan include:
A. Main Activities:
1. Prevention:
*  Screening of 100% blood donation and provision of HNV test kits for blood screening.
*  Condom promotion aimed at high risk groups and conducted in cooperation with the NGOs.
*  Infection control and universal precaution: distribution of existing SOPs, training and socialization
of universal precaution among health workers, provision of supplies and equipment by the local
government, development of guidelines and training package by the HAPP project (USAID funded
HV/AIDS project).
*  Prevention of mother to child transmission: implementation of a WHO supported pilot project.
- 17 -



*  Harm reduction among IDUs (Injecting Drug Users): conducting rapid assessment and
interventions among IDUs using WHO, USAID and AusAID resources.
2. Care:
*   STD case management in hospitals and health centers.
*   Integrated STD case management and MCH/FP services.
*   STD outreach services.
*   STD clinics.
*  AIDS case management in hospitals.
*  Community based AIDS care.
*  Provision of logistics (drugs, supplies and equipment).
*  Increase coverage, access, and equity of testing and counseling services throughout the country.
3. IEC:
*   Targeted intervention towards high risk groups.
*   Systematic, and wide coverage of IEC to the general population, using effective, tested and
evaluated methods, taking into consideration the target audience's tradition, religious beliefs and
socio-culture.
*   Special attention to moral and ethics aspects, promoting family resilience and welfare.
4. Surveillance:
*   WHV and syphilis sentinel surveillance conducted in 15 provinces, as hoc surveillance conducted in
26 provinces, printing and distribution of SOPs, and training of health workers using local
government resources.
3  AIDS surveillance, training, printing and distribution of SOPs using local government resources.
i   STD surveillance, development of guidelines, pretesting and printing of guidelines, and training
using local government budget.
3  Behavioral surveillance survey, development of tools and incorporating activities in biomedical
sentinel sites.
i  Gonnorhoea Antimicrobial-resistence Surveillance, extension of laboratory sites.
*  Periodic projection and estimation of H[V infection loads.
5. Monitoring and evaluation:
*   Supervision for HIV/AIDS and STDs prevention and control at provincial, district and health
center levels.
* Review meeting for planning and evaluation at all levels.
-   Annual national meeting on H1IV/AIDS and STDs prevention and care in the health sector.
6. Research and Development by government as well as private institutions, and universities.
7. Training and Education:
*  Pre-service training for medical and paramedical education on WIV/AIDS and STDs case
management, universal precaution, and counseling.
*  In-service training for government and privately employed health workers on HIV/AIDS and STDs
case management, universal precaution, counseling, testing and surveillance.
B. Supporting Activities:
1. Coordination, cooperation and community participation through:
*  The National, Provincial and District AIDs Commissions.
*  Bilateral and Multilateral Cooperation.
* Cooperation with intemational agencies and NGOs.
2. Improvement of program management through improvement of functions and elements in the
management of WHV/AIDS and STDs prevention and care.
3. Development of laws and regulations:
*  Development of laws and regulations to protect WHV serologic status confidentiality of people with
- 18 -



HIV and AIDS
*   Development of laws and regulation to prevent discrimination of people with HIV and AIDS.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
a000* ` to d M atr  i               Pjte in0R last P                       A it4aIcts Estimate
1. Percent of CSWs who:               Data not available                     Data not available.
- can describe correct use of a condom,                                      Interview with a few CSWs during the ICR
- can explain where and how to obtain                                        mission found good knowledge on where and
condoms,                                                                     how to obtain condoms, and positive attitude
- have a positive attitude toward consistent,                               toward consistent condom use but actual use
correct condom use.                                                          of condoms was highly dependent on the
preference of clients.
2. Percent of CSWs in "lokalisasi"    Data not available                     An assessment of post syndromic approach
reported ever use of condom and use in last                                 training (1998) in district Kepri by NGOs at
sexual act.                                                                  three "lokalisasi", one massage parlour and
MCH clinic reported 50% ever use condom.
From a Behavioral Surveillance Survey
conducted in two lokalisasis in Riau, on
average 22% CSWs always use condoms,
and 67% sometimes use condoms, 54%
used condom in the last sexual act.
3. Percent of person by target group who: -  Data not available              Means of AIDS prevention (results from the
can cite at least 2 means of STD                                             same BSS): use sterile needle (65%), be
preventions;                                                                 faithful (62%), always use condom (77%).
- state that HIV is a special type of STD;
- state that a person can remain healthy for
several years but still transmit the virus;
- express the importance of positive family
attitudes toward a member with AIDS.
4 Percent of STD patients reportedly  Data not available.                    Data not available.
seeking care within 24 hours of noting
symptoms.
5. Percent of heaith workers trained in  Data not available.                 Data not available.
syndromic approach who can:
- demonstrate appropriate use of flow chart,
- demonstrate how to use a condom,
- explain the importance of treating STDs as
a way preventing AIDS.
6. Number of people aged 15-49 who    Data not available.                    Data not available.
reported condom use in most recent act of
sex intercourse with a non-regular partner,
Number of people aged 15-49 reporting
sexual intercourse with a non regular sex
partner in the past month
7. Reported STD Incidence (men)       Data not available.                    Data not available.
8. Reported STD Incidence (women)     Data not available.                    Data not available.
9. Performance on bi-annual proficiency    Data not available                30 out of 33 health and hospital laboratories
panel (competency reports)                                                   covered by this project conducted evaluation
of proficiency panel regulariy twice a year.
75% achieved maximum score (4).
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrix                    Prjected in last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
1. Number of group education session  Data not available.                    Data not available.
conducted by each province.
2. Number of peer group education     Data not available.                   18 batches in OKI and 223 batches in Riau.
session conducted by each province.                                        Monthly data on sessions were not recorded.
Various media for general community,
3. Number of educational materials    Data not available.                  specific/closed community, adolescents/
printed and distributed by province by                                     students, high risk groups, health workers,
target                                                                     religious group etc., consisting of 54,300
posters, 183,300 leaflets, 2,500 T-shirts,
5,000 modules, 75,000 handouts,
35,000 manuals, 100 fillers and 22 films,
38,000 stickers, 11,500 calendars, 12,500
booklets, 2,500 flipcharts.
There were occasions reported in Batam and
4. Percent of factories/companies who  Data not available.                 Kepri districts, but not well recorded.
have participated in educational programs
who develop formal policies related to
HIV/AIDS in the workplace.
Data not available.
5. Percent of registered CSWs who have    Data not available.
participated in at least one peer group
education session within the past 3
months.
64 NGOs
6. Number of NGOs involved in         Data not available.
implementing IEC activities.
Activities were reported, but data was not
7. Percent of schools reached by project   Data not available.             collected annually. No data recorded.
that have organized peer group programs.
Distribution of condoms was reported but
8. Number of condoms distributed by   Data not available.                  actual records were non existent.
each project management unit to NGOs
providing IEC service
Number of agencies was around 23 from
9. Number of implementing agencies that   Data not available.              both provinces. Annual reports were not
have conducted focus group discussions                                     done.
or other activities to solicit feedback from
those served by the NGOs.
No report is available.
10. Percent of implementing agencies  Data not available.
who report at least 1 supervisory visit by
PMU staff during past 6 months
11. Number of syndromic approach     Data not available                   In Riau: 11 batches involving 330 health
training workshops conducted by                                            workers. In DKI: 30 batches involving 2,254
provinces                                                                  health providers.
12. Number of condoms distributed by  Data not available.                  Survey was not done.
health center/clinics as a numerator of
number received.
13. Number of health workers trained in  Data not available.                2,520 persons in eight provinces
new surveillance methods
14. Number of supervisory visits made  Data not available                   No specific supervisory visits were executed.
by central and provincial level staff
surveillance
-21 -



15. Completion of Materials Checklist  Data not available.                  22 provincial health laboratories and hospital
by each Laboratory.                                                        laboratories completed the checklist.
22 provincial and hospital laboratories
16. Completion of Readiness Report by    Data not available.               provided reports, but only in the second
each laboratory.                                                           year.
17. Completion of Knowledge          Data not available.                    Some laboratories completed the
Assessment (written)                                                       assessment in the second year.
18. Performance on Proficiency Panel of   Data not available.              - Carried out by laboratory of RSCM hospital,
sera:                                                                     once a year.
- ability to determine CD3/418 levels by                                  - Canied out by laboratory of RSCM
flowcytometry                                                            hospital.
- ability to determine p24 levels                                         - Carried out by 27 provincial health
laboratories.
- ability to perform Chlamydia
Data not available.                    Done every year.
19. Visitation and completion of the
Inspection Report
20. Second year visitation and       Data not available.                    Done. on the second year.
Inspection report
End of project
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraal       ActualLatist   Potenteg of
Estimate       Estimat        Appraisal
Prpect Cost 0y Componont      :V$ million              US$ million
IEC & Behavioral Intervention                         10.00             1.59          15.9
Biomedical Services                                   18.20             2.89         15.87
Management & Support                                   3.00             0.44         14.66
Total Baseline Cost                                   31.20             4.92
Physical Contingencies                                1.60             0.25         15.62
Price Contingencies                                   2.40             0.37         15.41
Total Project Costs               35.20            5.54
Total Financing Required               35.20             5.54
Project Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ex;ienditu    - as                   o -etho&                   NBro.F.tt Toat
= = N = . _ .   .  _
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     5.00         4.60         2.00         0.10          11.70
l______________________     (5.00)       (3.70)       (1.30)       (0.00)        (10.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.40         0.00          3.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.30)       (0.00)       (3.30)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.20         14.70         5.20        20.10
(0.00)       (0.20)       (11.30)      (0.00)       (11.50)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     5.00          4.80        20.10         5.30         35.20
(5.00)       (3.90)       (15.90)      (0.00)       (24.80)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ExediuwaaW                                                        NZF        loa Cot
Other2                   _ _  _  _
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.94         0.75         0.00         0.00          1.69
(0.94)       (0.56)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.72         0.00          0.72
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.72)       (0.00)       (0.72)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         2.87          0.00         2.87
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.30)       (0.00)       (2.30)
- 23 -



5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          0.94             0.75           3.59            0.00            5.28
(0.94)          (0.56)          (3.02)         (0.00)          (4.52)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
|(5204.  81 !  t!0l'021  i  -i 2*w4
IEC & Behavioral           7.02       3.00       0.00       0.72       0.37       0.00      10.3   12.3    0.0
Intervention
Biomedical Service         12.84      5.50       0.00       3.46       0.86       0.00     26.9    15.6    0.0
Management & Support       1.96       0.84       0.00       0.33       0.03       0.00     16.8    3.6    0.0
-24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic cost and benefit was not done due to valid supporting data were not well available.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Ste of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I EMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1994                  4   1 Population & Health                S                 S
Specialist, 3 consultants,
HIV/AIDS and STDs
February 1995                 4   1 Economist, I Population &          S                 S
Health Specialist, 2 consultants,
HIV/AIDS and STD
Appraisal/Negotiation
July 1995                    2    1 Economist, I Population &          S                 S
Health Specialist
October 1995                  4   1 Economist, I Population &          S                 S
Health Specialist, I Public
Health Specialist, I FMS
January 1996                  5   1 Economist, I Population &          S                 S
Health Specialist, I Operations
Analyst, 1 Senior Counsel,
Legal Departnent, I
Disbursement Officer.
Supervision
September 1996                2   1 Economist, I Public Health         S                 S
Specialist
January 1997                  2   1 Economist, I Public Health         S                 S
Specialist
September 1997                2   1 Economist, I Public Health        U                  S
specialist
June and July 1998            3   1 Economist, 2 Public Health        U                  U
(no site visit)                 Specialists
ICR
April 2000                    3   2 Public Health Specialists,         U                 U
I Project Management
Consultant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation              24.2                        113.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                     17                        57.3
Supervision                               54                        150.3
ICR                                      8.4                         13.5
Total                                  103.6                       334.6
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
I Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
I Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
?Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
ER Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Gender                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
LII Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
-27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactoiy)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS   O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS   *U  O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project No. 15118-IND,
January 1996.
2. Loan Agreement for HlV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project between the Republic
of Indonesia and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Ln. 3981-IND, March 1996.
3. Aide-Memoires and BTOs for preparation and appraisal missions.
4. Aide-Memoires and BTOs for supervision missions.
5. Project Supervision Reports (PSRs).
6. External Evaluation Report of HIV/AIDS Project, April -May 1999, by National Board of Health
Research and Development..
7. Report of Independent Auditor (BPKP) on the Consolidated Financial Statement FY 1999 and 1998 of
WIV/AIDS Project, January 2000.
8. Financial Consolidation Report for FY 1999/2000, of HIV/AIDS Project by Project Management Unit,
March 2000.
9. Detailed Cost table for HWV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project, January 1996.
10. External HWV/AIDS Assessment, November 1999 by John Kaldor, Tonny Sadjimin. Suharyo
Hadisaputro and Jeanine Bardon.
11. HIV/AIDS, STDs and related risk behavior in Indonesia, Report of a Consensus Workshop.
12. Final Report, NGO Capacity Building Project, LAHSI.
13. Dampak Bantuan Bank Dunia Terhadap Peran Lembaga Swadaya Masyarakat Dalam
Penanggulangan WV/AIDS di DKI Jakarta, Yayasan Wira Bhakti Husada
14. Final Report HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project, IBRD Loan 3981-IND,
1996/1997-1999/2000, DG of CDC-EH.
15. Implementation Completion Report: Project Management Aspect, Widyastuti Soerojo.
- 29 -



