                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 32572




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                    INDONESIA

             INDONESIA PREVENTIONAND
                         HIWAIDSAND STDs
                            MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                (LOAN 3981)
                                        NO.


                                   June 13,2005




Sector, Thematic,and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)
                          Currency Unit =Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
                        (ExchangeRate Effective as o fApril 2000)
                                 Rp. 1million=US$ 125.87
                                      US$ 1=Rp. 7,945

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

 AEM         Asian epidemic model
 AIDS        Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
 ARV         Anti-retroviral
 ASA         Aksi Stop AIDS (FHI-executedproject of USAID)
 ASEAN       Associationof South-East Asian Nations
 AusAID      Australian Agency for Intemational Development
 Bappenas    Ministry of Planning
 BKKBN       National FamilyPlanningCoordinatingBoard
 BNN         National narcotics board
 BPS         CentralBureauof Statistics
 BSS         Behavioral SurveillanceSurvey
 CAS         Country assistance strategy
 CDC         Centersfor DiseasePreventionand Control (US)
 csw         Commercialsex worker
 DepKes      MinistryofHealth
 DfID        Departmentfor International Development(UK)
 DIP         Investmentbudgetitedallocation
 DKT         CondomSocial Marketing Agency
 EAP         EastAsia and Pacific Region(World Bank)
 FHI        FamilyHealthInternational
 GDP         Gross domesticproduct
 GFATM      Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB, andMalaria
GO1         Governmentof Indonesia
GPA         Global Programon AIDS (WHO)
HAPP        HIVIAIDS PreventionProject (USAID)
HC          Health center
HD          Humandevelopment
HDI         Humandevelopmentindex (UNDP)
HIV         Humanimmunodeficiencyvirus
HNP         Health, nutrition andpopulation
HRG         High-risk group
HSPMP       HIV/AIDS and STDsPreventionand Management Project
IBRD        Intemational Bankfor ReconstructionandDevelopment
ICR         ImplementationCompletion Report
IDU         Intravenousdrug user
IEC         Information, education, and communication
IHPCP       IndonesiaHIV/AIDS and STD Preventionand Care Project (AusAID)
IMF         Intemational Monetary Fund
iwgAIDS     Inter-agencyworking group AIDS (epidemic model)
W A         National AIDS Commission
KSAR        Provincial AIDS Commission
M&E         Monitoringand evaluation
MCH         Matemal and childhealth
MOF         MinistryofFinance
MOH         Ministry o fHealth
MSM         Menwho havesex with men
MTR         Mid-term review (during project execution)
NAC         National AIDS Committee
NGO         Non-govemmentalorganization
OED         OperationsEvaluation Department
PDO         Projectdevelopmentobjectives(for project status report)
PKBI        PlannedParenthoodAssociation, Indonesia
PLWA        Peopleliving with HIV/AIDS

  PMU               ProgramManagement Unit(for HIV/AIDS and STDs, inMOH)
  PSR               Project status report
  Pukesmas          Publiclyowned localhealthcare facility
  RP                Rupiah
  RSI               ResidentstaffinIndonesia-the WorldBank country office
  S A R             Staffappraisalreport
  SOP               Standard operatingprocedure
  STD               Sexuallytransmitteddisease
  STI               Sexuallytransmittedinfection
  STP               Short term plan
 TB                 Tuberculosis
 UN                 UnitedNations
 UNAIDS             UnitedNationsJoint Programon HIVIAIDS
 UNDP               UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
 UNFPA              UnitedNationsPopulationFund
 UNGASS             UnitedNations General AssemblySpecialSession(on AIDS)
 UNICEF             UnitedNations Children'sFund
 USAID              UnitedStatesAgency for IntemationalDevelopment
 WB                 World Bank
 WHO                World HealthOrganization
 YPI                YayasanPelitaIlmu, anIndonesianNGO

Fiscal Year:               Government: April 1-March 3 1




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation               : Mr. Ajay Chbber
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department            : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global EvaluationGroup        : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                                 : MsMarthaAinsworth


                                                             1




    OED Mission:Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
  purposes: first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verif'y that the Bank'swork is
  producingthe expected results,and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
 the dissemination of lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those that are
 innovative, large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; thosefor which
  ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analytical approaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) is basedona review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED.To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operationalstaff,and in most cases visit
 the borrowingcountryfor onsitediscussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validateand augment the informationprovided in the ICR,as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review processand OED managementapproval.Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewedby the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completedPPAR is then
 sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to the Board,it is disclosedto the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigoranda necessary levelof flexibilityto adapt to lendinginstrument, projectdesign,or
 sectoralapproach.OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Followingis
 the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion (moreinformationis availableon the OED website:
 http:/lworldbank.org/oedleta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to whichthe project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
 currentdevelopmentprioritiesand with currentBank countryand sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
 goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers,CountryAssistanceStrategies,SectorStrategy Papers,
 OperationalPolicies).Possibleratings: High,Substantial, Modest,Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to whichthe project's objectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
account their relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High,Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Eflcjency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat leastcost comparedto alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generallyappliedto adjustmentoperations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely,Not Evaluable.
      InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe abilityof a countryor region
to make more efficient,equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
better definitjon,stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b)
betteralignmentof the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intendedand unintendedeffects of a
project.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently.Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extentto which servicesprovidedby the Bank ensuredquality at entry and
supported implementationthroughappropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequatetransitionarrangements
for regularoperationof the project).Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenantsand agreements,towards the
achievement of development objectivesand sustainability.Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       111




 Contents

 PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................    v

 Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................    v

 Preface   ..............................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                              vi1


 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................      ix

 1 IntroductionandBackground
  .                                                      ....................................................................................   1

          TheEarly Spread of HIY/AIDS in Indonesia........................................................... 1
          TheInitialIndonesian Policy Response...................................................................                               1
          WorldBank Involvement in Health in Indonesia.....................................................                                    2
          Project Preparation .................................................................................................                3

2 ProjectObjectives andDesign
  .                                                      ....................................................................................  4

3 ProjectImplementation
  .                                          ...............................................................................................   6

4 Outputsand Outcomes, by Objective
  .                                                                   ......................................................................  10

         Develop institutionsfor reducing STD and HIY transmission ..............................                                             10
         Pilot interventionsfor reducing STD and HIV transmission.................................                                            11
5 Ratings
 .              ........................................................................................................................      12

          Outcome.................................................................................................................            12
         Institutional development impact...........................................................................                          14
         Sustainability..........................................................................................................
                        . .                                                                                                                   14
         Bankperformance .................................................................................................. 14
         Borrowerperformance ...........................................................................................                      15

6 Lessons
 .             ........................................................................................................................       16

References    .........................................................................................................................       19

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                              ..............................................................................................      22

Annex B: ListofPeopleMet                      ...........................................................................................     24

Annex C:TimelineofEventsfor the HIV/AIDS and STDs Preventionand
Ths report was preparedby A.EdwardElmendorf. consultant. who assessedthe project inJanuary 2004.
and peer reviewedby Martha Ainsworth. task manager. The report was edited by Bill Hurlbut.and Pilar
Barquero provided adrnhstrative support.

                                                       iv


   Management Project     ..................................................................................................    26

Annex D Key Project Performance Indicators
         .                                                       ............................................................   30

Annex E An Overview of HIV/AIDS Epidemiology in Indonesia
         .                                                                                       .............................. 34


Boxes

Box 1 Project Components..............................................................................................
     .                                                                                                                          4

Tables

Table 1. Summary o fProject Outcome Ratings by Objective..........................................                              14



Figure 1.Flat or decliningcondom use inJakarta............................................................
Figures
                                                                                                                                12

                                                           V



PrincipalRatings
                                                   ICR*                              PPAR
Outcome                                      Unsatisfactory                      Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                                    Unlikely                          Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                 Negligible                         Negligible
Bank Performance                             Unsatisfactory                      Unsatisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                          Unsatisfactory                      Unsatisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperational division of the Bank.


Key StaffResponsible
Project                          Task ManagedLeader                   Division Chief/           Country Director
                                                                      Sector Director
 Appraisal                        Samuel S. Lieberman                 Imelda Martinez             Marianne Haug
 Completion                            Puti Matzoeki                     Alan Ruby                   Mark Baird


                                                      vii


  Preface


           This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Indonesia
  HIV/AIDS and STDs Prevention andManagement Project (Ln.3981-IND). The Loan
  was approved on March 27, 1996, and became effective on May 15,1996. Itprovided
  financing for institutionaldevelopment for HIV/AIDS and STD prevention, and for pilot
  interventions to reduce transmission o f HIV/AIDS and STDs inJakarta and Riau
 Provinces, alongwith complementary support to centrallyprovided Ministryo fHealth
  (MOH) services. The $35.2 milliontotal Project cost was to be financed by an IBRD
 loan o f $24.8 million, and $10.4 millioninfinancing by the Government o f Indonesia.
 Following major Projectmanagement problems andinthe wake o f the Indonesian
 financial, social andpolitical crises that eruptedbeginninginmid-1997, $19.8 milliono f
 the loan- 80 percent - was cancelled in 1998. The remainder o f the loan continued to
 disburse untilthe original closing date o f September 30, 1999. Total disbursements
 amounted to $4.5 million.

          The findings o f the PPAR are based on: an OED mission to Jakarta inJanuary
 2004;' review o fproject documents and files inWashington and Jakarta, including the
 StaffAppraisal Report, the ImplementationCompletionReport, andProject Status
 Reports; and interviews with Indonesian government officials inthe planningagency
 (Bappenas) andthe Ministryo f Health, healthresearchersinJakarta, World Bank staff in
 Jakarta and Washington, development partners, inJakarta, Geneva (by telephone),
 Atlanta (by telephone) and Washington, andnon-governmental organizations (NGOs)in
 Jakarta. A list ofpeople met i s inAnnex B.Annex C provides a timeline o f key events
 with respect to the project andIndonesia's AIDS response. Annex E-an overview of
 HIV/AIDS epidemiology inIndonesia-i s an abbreviated version o f a paper by Elisabeth
 Pisaniincludedinthe Indonesia country case studyprepared for OED's evaluation o f
 Bank assistancefor HIV/AIDS control. Appreciation i s expressed to all concerned for
 their cooperation and assistance inconnection with the PPAR.

         Following standard OED procedures, copies o fthe draft PPARwere sent to
 government officials for their review and comments, but nonewere received.




1. The mission was conducted inconnection with a case study o f the effectiveness o f the Bank's HIViAIDS
assistance to Indonesia (Elmendorf, Jensen and Pisani2004), one o f four country case studies for OED's
evaluation of the Bank's assistance for HIViAIDS control. This PPAR provides greater detail o n the
performance o fthe HIViAIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project, one element o f that case
study. The PPARhas beenpreparedbyone member of the case studyteam (A. EdwardElmendorf), and
takes into account findings from the case study, to which team members Eric Jensen and ElisabethPisani
provided significant contributions.


                                                i x


  Summary

          The HIV/AIDS and STDsPrevention andManagement Project (HSPMP) aimed
  to use intensive pilot efforts to achieve two objectives: (a) develop HIVlAIDS and STD
  institutionalmechanisms at the nationalandprovincial levels; and (b) develop
  interventions capable o freducingtransmission o fHIV and STDs. The total Project cost
  o f $35.2 millionwas to be financed with an IBRD loan o f $24.8 millionand government
 counterpart funding for the remaining $10.4 million.

          The HSPMP represented an effort to addressthe world-wide AIDS pandemic in
 Indonesia inthe pre-epidemic stage o fthe disease. Prior to projectpreparation, inthe
 early-mid 1990s, attention o fpolicy makers inIndonesia and the Bank was gained for
 early interventionwith commercial sex workers through epidemiological projections
 showing that, withno change inpreventive efforts, Indonesia would have 500,000
 sexually transmittedHIV infectionswithin four years. These scenarios turned out to be
 quite inaccurate. SexuallytransmittedHIV remains even today at a low level in
 Indonesia, while HIV transmission associatedwith druguse has grown rapidly.

          Despite the weakness o f the analytic foundation for an emergency response to
 HIV inIndonesia, the conceptual design ofthe HSPMPwas sound, andbased on
 acceptedpractices o fthe time. Project preparation took about one year, for an activity
 that was entirely new for the Bank inthe country. The Project emphasized behavior
 change interventions with high-risk groups (HRG), public goods such as disease
 surveillance, andparticipatory engagement o f affected populations. Involvement o f non-
 governmental organizations (NGOs)inexecution was a definingfeature o f the Project.
 TheProjectwas expected to be aninitialthree-year phase o f a longer Bankinvolvement.
 A ProgramManagement Unit(PMU) was established inthe Ministryo fHealth, with
 responsibility for coordination o f all HIV- and STD-relatedactivities o f the Ministry, as
 well as for relevant donor-supported interventions, includingthe HIV/AIDS and STDs
PreventionandManagement Project.

         The HSPMP was negotiated and approved early in 1996 and the Bank loan
became effective inMay. Project start-up was slow, due inpart to delays inrelease o f
Indonesian government counterpart financing providedthrough the public investment
budget. Managerial weaknesses appearedquickly. Procedures to facilitate NGO
involvement agreed duringnegotiations were not communicatedto provincial financial
authorities, and it was only late in 1998 that a Ministryo f Finance (M0F)-Bappenas
circular on the subject was finalized. About 15 months after effectiveness, inJuly 1997,
the East Asia financial crisis hit Indonesia, andthe energy and attention o fpolicy makers
was necessarily focused on issues other thanthe managerialproblems o fthe HSPMP.
Political commitment to the Project weakened as the anticipated explosion o fHIV
transmitted by commercial sex workers that hadprovided a rationale for early
interventionwith marginalized and dis-empowered social groups didnot occur. In 1998,
eightypercent o fthe JBRD loanwas cancelled, inconnectionwith the restructuringo f
the Bank's Indonesiaportfolio that took place inthe wake o fthe EastAsia crisis. Very
little Project implementationtook place after the crisis.

                                               X



        While the development o f institutionsto reduce STD andHIV transmission
remains highlyrelevant and the needto pilot interventions substantially relevant, Project
efficacy and efficiency were low. Project outcome i s rated unsatisfactory. While some
progress was made on improvingthe environment for NGO engagement, sustainabilityo f
Project achievements is rated unlikely. Bank performance i s rated unsatisfactory.
Despite the achievement o fplacing HIV on the agenda for GOI-Bank cooperation at an
early stage inthe epidemic, insufficient attention was paidduringProject preparation to
the breadthand depth o f commitment to the Project, to institutionalanalysis, and to NGO
capacity buildingrequirements. As explained inthe ICR, Bank supervisory support
tended to focus on current issuesrather than underlyingproblems o fpolitical
commitment and the resolutiono f institutional rivalries withinthe MOH. Finally,
borrower performance i s also rated unsatisfactory. DuringProjectpreparation, attention
concentrated on technical issues; the failure to address institutionalroles and
responsibilitieswithin the MOHcontributed to conflicts that impededProject execution.
Macro factors affected execution instrongly negative ways, and the implementingagency
showed little commitment.

        Despite its failure to achieve satisfactory development outcomes, the HSPMP
offers valuable lessons, includingconfirmation o f experience inother countries:

       Amplifying HIV/AIDS messagesinthe face ofuncertaintyrisks undermining
       subsequent commitment to activities that require continuous nurturingo fpolitical
       and institutional support ifthe focus on HRGandpublic goods i s to be
       maintained.
       Failure to assess institutionaloptions andresponsibilitiesprior to the launch o f the
       project and to develop local ownership can result inunworkable institutional
       arrangements withinthe agency leadingthe AIDS response.
       Development o fAIDS-related institutions and services requires long-term
       engagement o fthe Bank and its clients, andcannot be expected through a three-
       year pilot operation.
       More donor funds may be available insome environments, particularly inthe pre-
       epidemic stages o fHIV,thanrecipient countries are able to absorb, particularly
       for direct HIV/AIDS services provided through NGOs.
       Physicalproximity o f the Bank task manager inthe Bank's country office does
       not necessarily strengthen Bank supervisory support to project implementation.


                                                                    Ajay Chhibber
                                                               Acting Director-General
                                                                 Operations Evaluation

                                                        1




  1. Introductionand Background

 THEEARLY          SPREAD OF HIV/AIDSININDONESIA

  1.1          The first case o f HIV inIndonesia was identifiedina foreign homosexual
 tourist inBali in 1987. Systematic sentinel HIV surveillance o f sex workers inJakarta
 and Surabaya began in 1988, whenno HIV-positive cases were found. As o f December
 31, 1993, the Ministry o f Health(MOH) reported 193 HIV infections, ofwhich 49 were
 A D S cases (Jalal and others 1994). About halfo fthe infectionswere spread through
 heterosexual activity, and only 3 were attributed to intravenous druguse. In 1993/1994
 the first HIV-positive blood sampleswere identified among blood donors - only 8 out o f
 533,865. Inthe same period sentinel swveillance reported the first HIV-positive cases
 among sex workers -3 were HIV-positive out o f 52,870 tested.2 Even as late as 1997,
 HIVprevalence was still sufficiently low that MOHstatistics refer to a small numberof
 cases inIrianJaya as `Thai fishermen, who have since left the c~untry'.~

THEINITIAL POLICY RESPONSE
                    INDONESIAN

 1.2          As early as 1985, an unofficial working group o f Indonesians was discussing
HIV/AIDSinIndonesia. While only a few AIDS cases hadbeenobserved, public health
researchershadthe exploding Thai epidemic as a geographically, though not culturally,
proximateexample o fthe possible course o f an Indonesian epidemic. A National AIDS
Committee (NAC) was formed in 1987. AIDS became anotifiable disease in 1988.
Startingin 1988, short andmedium term plans for A I D S control were implementedwith
WHO Global Programon AIDS (GPA) assistance infour provincesthought to be at high
risk -- Jakarta, Bali, Jogjakarta, andEast Java. Sentinel HIV surveillance expanded to
include nineprovinces by the early 1990s, and screening o f the blood supply grew
rapidly (Jalal andothers 1994). A NationalAIDS Preventionand Coordination
Commission, including 14 Ministers, was created in 1994, but it did not meet. An AIDS
strategy was adopted in 1994, modeledon the work o f Indonesia's successful population
andfamilyplanningboard, BKKBN. It espousedbroadprinciples ratherthanspecific
programs, anddidnot include focus onhigh-risk groups. The work o fthe NationalAIDS
Commission and implementation o f its strategy was supported by AusAID andUNDP
projects, but nationalresources for strategy implementation were limited, particularly
after the financial crisis startingin 1997.

1.3          Projections o f the possible course o fthe HIV/AIDSepidemic were generated
byexpatriate consultants and researcher^.^ They were largely basedonthe African and
Thai experiences o f the late 1980s and early 1 9 9 0 and     ~ ~ showed the potential for an
explosive acceleration o f the epidemic.

2. National surveillancerecords, MOH, and U.S. CensusBureauHIV database

3. Republic of Indonesia, MOHtables containedina January 1997Bankmemorandum.

4. Liman1992.

                                                          2


 WORLD BANK INVOLVEMENT INHEALTHINDONESIA             IN

  1.4           The World Bank has had a long, active, and largely successful engagement in
 health inIndonesia. Startingwith a populationproject in 1972,the Bank financed 13
 health, nutrition andpopulation (HNP)projects by 1996,with total financial
 commitments amounting to $638 milli~n.~               Completionreports on these projects show a
 very positive record. The outcome o f one o fthe projects was ratedhighlysatisfactory;
 the outcomes o ften were ratedsatisfactory and one marginally satisfactory.

  1.5           The Bank's health sector strategy inIndonesiahas evolved considerably over
 time, as health and other conditions inthe country changed. When the HIVIAIDS and
 STDs PreventionandManagement Project (HSPMP) was initiallyproposed, inlate 1994,
 the Initial Executive Project Summary set out a two-prongedBankhealth sector strategy
 inIndonesia: to foster facility-level service delivery throughprovince-based projects; and
 to fund complementary operations which buildcentral capacity to perform policy
 formulation, analytic, andtechnical assistance functions. HNP lending inIndonesia
 concentrated on financing and provision o f services by the public sector, and gave little
 attention to private provisiono fhealth services inthe country. The HSPMP fit within this
 strategic framework.

 1.6           Discussions on HIV/AIDSby Bank HNP staff with the Indonesianauthorities
 started in 1992. Based on the highprevalence o f sexually transmitteddiseases (STD)
 among high-riskgroups, like sex workers, andthe experience o f the explosive HIVIAIDS
 epidemicinThailand, Indonesia was perceived to have the potential for a major HIV
 epidemic. Although sentinel HIV surveillance insex workers detected only a handfulo f
HIVpositivecases, oneresearcher estimatedthat, after adjustingfor under-reporting,
there were 40,000 to 50,000 infectionsby the end of 19936. Assuming this to be correct,
with no change inpreventive efforts, it was projected that Indonesiawouldhave half a
million infections within 4 years.' Such thinkingwas widespread inthe donor
community inJakarta at the time, andwas stimulated by dialogue among World Bank
and USAID staff and their Indonesian counterparts.

 1.7           Within the Bank, the 1993 country economic report includeda box suggesting
that the epidemic had entered its "exponential growthphase, with doubling time for
reported cases of less than a year and threatening to fall." The economic report found that
policy makers "have responded quickly", with strategies including surveillance, clinical
management, andpreventiono fblood transmission. Resources allocatedto HIVADS
were said to be inadequate, with insufficient recognitionthat preventingfurther spread o f
the virus would require "extensive behavioralchange inthe population, involving strong
and visible leadership, intensive social marketing andtraining activities, andvigorous
cooperation with the private sector, includingNGOs." A successful strategy, according
to the box, would involve promoting safe sex, STD prevention and control, campaigns
targeted at "actual or potentialhighrisk groups", and "identification o fhighpriority


5. Water supply and sanitationin low-income communities i s also included in the health portfolio.

6. Jalal and others 1994.
7. Jalal and others 1994

                                                 3


  initiatives".' Inretrospect, the epidemiologicaldata inthe box were inaccurate, but the
  proposed responses were sound.

   1.8        The project rationale and strategy set out inthe S A R followed the approach o f
  the Bank economic report, with heavy emphasis on STDs, HIV surveillance andHIV
  behavior change, and experience inThailand. Regionaldimensions within Indonesia
  were outlined, and set the stage for pilot interventions proposed inthe HSPMP S A R for
  two provinces. The projections summarized above buttressed the argument for an
  emergency response and were the basis for calculatingproject benefits, but the
  conceptual design was dnven more by internationally accepted practices at the time, with
  emphasis on highrisk groups (HRG), public goods and services, andparticipatory
  engagement. Duringthe internalreviewprocess the projections were not challenged
  (Annex E). Thus, it appearsthat a combination o f awarenessofthe situationinother
  countries, availability o f deeply worrisome projections andpromotion o f an alarming
 though highlyuncertainscenario by resident expatriates, Bank staff, and some key
 Indonesianpersonnel put the issue o fHIVIAIDS on the agenda for operational
 collaborationbetweenthe Indonesian government andthe Bank at a very early stage in
 the epidemic inthe country. The fact that the projections were inaccurate shouldnot
 detract from the importance o f the accomplishment o f successfully insertingHIV into the
 GOI-Bank work program, ina country with only a nascent epidemic.

 PROJECTPREPARATION

 1.9         The HSPMPwas prepared inan emergency mindset. An identificationmission
 visited the country inOctober 1994, andpreparationand appraisal missions took place in
 January-February, July, and October 1995. A grant by Japan for project preparationwas
mobilized, andthe Bank managed the grant at the request of the authorities, to permit
rapidprocessing. The speed o fproject preparationwas not significantly different from
other operations inIndonesia. Identification and preparationtook place over one year.
Yet the operation represented an entirely new activity for the Bank inthe country and
involved highlycontroversial areas o f deeplypersonalbehavior. According to the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), no prior sector work was undertaken.

1.10         Within the Indonesian government, a numbero f agencies heldresponsibilities
touching on HIV/AIDS issues, which had a bearing on project preparation. Beyond the
inactiveN A C and subsequent Commission, the Ministryo fPlanning(Bappenas) took a
strong lead onpublic investment and donor relations. A key Bappenas officialworked
closely with researchers concerned by HIV inIndonesia, andwas a championpromoting
involvement. The Bappenas counterpart inthe MOHplanningbureau orchestrated the
technical aspects o fproject preparation. Within the Ministryo f Health, there was no
overall institutional locus o fresponsibility for HIV/AIDS and STDs. Different aspects of
HIVandSTDswere coveredbyseparateunitsresponsible for specific diseasesandfor
epidemiology.

1.11        To assist on project preparation, specialists on IEC andbehavior change
programswere recruited, along with experts on STD programs andpublic health

8. World Bank 1994.

                                                            4


  laboratories, largely from the US.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
  One person was to assumeresponsibility for monitoring and evaluation, among other
  tasks. The absence o f specialized expertise ininstitutional analysis andNGO
  partnerships stands out, inlight o f the fact that institutional development was to become a
  major objective o fthe project.'




  2.        ProjectObjectives and Design

  2.1           The HSPMP was intendedto help operationalize and implement the AIDS
  strategy presented inthe Government's 1994 decrees, which aimed to lower STD and
 HIV incidence anddeaths from AIDS inIndonesia. The specific objectives ofthe Project
 were to use intensive pilot efforts to develop (a) institutionalmechanisms and (b)
 interventions capable o f reducingtransmission o f STDs andHIV inIndonesia, as the first
 phase for longerrunsupport for Indonesia's AIDS response. The project's three
 components includeda core program for STD and HDIprevention interventions ineach
 o f two pilot provinces, to be designed andimplementedinpartnership with local NGOs,
 and a component to finance complementary activities at the central level (Box 1).
 Extensivemonitoring and evaluation were to identifywhich trial interventions were
 promisingandworth continuing. The Project was plannedas a brief, three-year
 intervention, with subsequent operations to follow, The total cost o f the project at
 appraisal was $35.2 million, financed by an IBRD loan of $24.8 million anda counterpart
 contribution from the Indonesian government o f$10.4 million.

 Box 1. Project Components                                                                                         1
 The HSPMP consisted of provincial-level pilots in Jakarta and Riau provinces and support to central activities of
 the MOH:

 Jakarta ($8.8 million): The Project was to support behavior change, STD service delivery, STD and HIV
 surveillance, laboratory strengthening, NGO capacity building, andmonitoring and evaluation. NGOs were to be
 contracted to play a key role in designing and carryng out behavior change interventions. Training and IEC
material preparation and use were central to the Jakartacomponent.
Riau ($7.3 million): The Project was to finance activities comparable to those in Jakarta, including behavioral
and service delivery initiatives (training, guidelines, and laboratory support) and surveillance, monitoring, and
evaluation. Behavioral interventions were directed at health care personnel, commercial sex workers, and others
at risk, and comparable efforts were to be made with secondary audiences. As inJakarta, NGOs were expected to
play a central role.

Central activities ($15.0 million): The project was to support coordination, technical assistance, media
development, monitoring and evaluation and research, and other activities of central MOH units. Development
and testing of procedures for syndromic management o f STDs, including training, equipment, and supplies, were
included. Surveillance support was initially to focus on Jakarta and Riau, and subsequently in other districts,
including guidelines, training, and purchase of equipment and supplies. Centers o f excellence for laboratory
services were to be established inseveral areas, to serve as anchors for quality assurance. Provincial laboratories
throughout the country were to be given increased capacity to handle HIV and STDs. To support behavior
change activities at the provincial level, development o f prototypes for needs assessments, preparation, and pre-
testing o f IEC materials, training of trainers, technical assistance, and research were anticipated at the central
M O H level. Finally, the project provided funds for researchon arange o f topics relatedto HIV and STDs.



9. The Japanesegrant provided for financing o fan institutional specialist, but the individual was not hired.

                                                    5


  2.2         The SAR recognized that progress towards the HIV transmission reduction
  goal might not be discemable inthe three-year duration o fproject execution. At least
  initially, the S A R expected the reported number o f STD and HIV cases to rise, as an
  indication that a strengthened surveillance systemwas functioning. For these reasons, the
  HSPMP was designed to attain a numbero fproximate objectives. Designated
  performance indicators covered four objectives: (a) improved awareness and behavior
  change inkey groups; (b) improved knowledge and skills o fhealthworkers; (c)
  establishment o f effective surveillance mechanisms; and (d) enhanced capabilities o fthe
  healthlaboratory system.

  2.3         A defining feature ofthe Bank-financed Project was to bethe role ofNGOsin
  different aspects of implementation. They were to be actively involved inthe Provincial
  AIDS Commissions. IndividualNGOswere to be contracted for various behavior
  change, service delivery, training andmonitoring and evaluation activities. For specified
  tasks, NGOs with known expertise were to be askedto submit proposals, and for other
 tasks NGOswould be able to submit unsolicitedproposals to carry out STD and
 HIV/AIDS related activities. The loanwas also to finance capacity buildingmeasures
 directed at smaller NGOs, some with strong ties to particular groups of interest to the
 Project.

 2.4          The objectives o f the Projectwere somewhat ambiguous intheir follow-
 through inproject design. The intentionto develop institutionalmechanisms and to pilot
 interventions was clear. These objectives needed to bemore closely linked to the
 individual components, and to the monitoring and evaluation program. The indicators set
 out inthe S A R covered only the activities to be carried out under various project
 components, without linkage to the project development objectives (PDO). A statement
 was neededon how monitoring and evaluation ofthe two fundamental objectives would
 becarried out, The project descriptioninthe LoanAgreement stated the objectives in
 geographic terms: to develop (a) institutionalmechanisms andpilot interventions "in the
 provinces of Jakarta and Riau," and (b) "activities at the center" to reduce STD andHIV
 transmission and prepare for extension o fthe pilot interventionsto other provinces.'o The
 project statusreports (PSR) PDO statements accurately follow the S A R andthen discuss
 the project components without linkage to the pilot nature o f the interventions or the
monitoringofinstitutional development with reference to central or provincial AIDS
program delivery capacity or NGO development.

2.5          The objectives o f the Project were epidemiologicallyrelevant (focusing on
development o f institutions for STDs/HIV/AIDS, andpiloting interventions), but
institutionally andpolitically premature, relative to the level of political commitment and
existing institutionalcapacity that would have beennecessary to implement and sustain
themeffectively inthe environment ofanascent epidemic. An alternativehealthproject
to expand public health services o f interest to HIV and other diseases could have been
considered, particularly bearing inmindthe limited knowledge o f HIV and STDs then
available inIndonesia. This mighthave beenmore responsive to the Bank's comparative


10.As with most other Bank-financedprojects, the presentation ofthe project development objectives in
the Loan Agreement was the only statement of objectives explicitly agreed betweenthe borrower and the
Bank.

                                                            6


  advantages indealing with large, national, structural issues, and fit more closely into the
  Bank's health sector strategy. Such an operation could have focused on institution-
  building, broadeningand deepening politicalcommitment to address controversialhealth
  issues, andproviding public goods (like epidemiologicalandbehavioralsurveillance and
  improvedlaboratory capacity). Itmighthave beenable to introduce pilots for behavior
  change intervention after a mid-term review. This would have allowed more time to
  nurture commitment andbuildcapacity before undertakingan aggressive pushfor
  targeted high-risk interventions for which there was little support at the time o f the
  HSPMP.



  3. ProjectImplementation

  3.1         The Projectwas ledby the Director General o f Communicable Disease Control
  and EnvironmentalHealthinthe Ministryo f Health(DG-CDCIEH). An advisory
 Steering Committee was chairedby the Secretary-General o f the MOH. The Bank loan
 supported the creation o f a special HIV/AIDS and STDs ProgramManagement Unit
 (PMU) reportingdirectly to the DG-CDC/EH. TheUnitwas to beresponsible for
 planning, coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating all HIV/AIDSand STD-relatedwork
 within the MOH. Itwas to providetechnical assistance to localhealthagencies andto
 facilitate links with the National AIDS Commission. Beyondthe Bank-financed Project,
 the PMUwas to beresponsible for coordinationo f all other donor assisted activities in
 the MOHrelatedto STDs and HN/AIDS. These broadresponsibilitiesjustified the
 name 'Program Management Unit', as distinct from a 'Project Management Unit.'
 However, while an MOHDGCDC-EH implementation decree o f December 1996 gave
 the PMUresponsibility for coordinationof all donor-assisted projects, it described the
 PMUas a Project Unitwithout a permanent structural positionwithin the Indonesian
 public administration. It thus appearedto underminethe institutional development
 objective o f strengtheningMOH structures to address HIV/AIDS." As with other
 investment projects, Bappenas retainedoverall responsibilitybut was not engaged on a
 dailybasis.

 3.2         The Projectwas approved inFebruary 1996, andthe Bank loanbecame
effective inMay ofthat year. Project completionwas expected by the end o fMarch
 1999. The Project faced difficulties from the beginningo f execution. A one-day project
launchworkshop was held, but only at the end o f July 1996 and apparently without
participationo fthe task manager or other Washington-based Bank staff. The initial
supervision mission, inSeptember 1996, reportedthat a delay inavailability o fproject
funds apparently attributable to inadequate budget planningwithinthe GO1was delaying
central andprovincial execution. The terms o f recruitment of the Project Manager were
unclear, andthere was considerable lack o fclarity regarding the planned work with
NGOs. Responsibility for baseline surveys was beingdebated amongthe unitstasked
with carrying out different components o fthe Project. Overall, the initialsupervision

11. The ICR treats the PMUas a project unit, and reflects the continuing confusion on this issue that persisted during
HSPMPimplementation. Since closure ofthe Bank loan, the PMUappears to have disappeared, inpractice ifnot in
form.

                                                          7


  mission found the Project to be `starting ina disappointing fashion.' Looking back, these
  are signs o f limitedreadiness for implementation.

  3.3         The second supervision mission, inFebruary 1997, also reportedsignificant
  delays, and the PMUwas thought not to be ina position to manage the Project
  effectively. The PSR rated implementationprogress anddevelopment objectives as
  satisfactory, while project management was unsatisfactory. Shortly thereafter, only about
  15 months after loan effectiveness, the East Asia financial crisis hit Indonesia, and the
  attention o fpolicy makers inboth and GO1and the Bank was understandably devoted to
 issues more urgentthan the HSPMP. The September 1997 supervision missionrated the
 Project unsatisfactory on implementation, though still satisfactory on development
 objectives becauseo fprogress on some components. The Bank's follow-up letter stated
 that, ifina further six months the ratingremained unsatisfactory, the Bank would seek to
 discuss possiblerestructuring or, ifnecessary, closure o f the Project.

 3.4          Because o f inadequate management, limited support within the MOH, and lack
 o f evidence to demonstrate that HIV was actually spreading inthe Indonesianpopulation,
 the HSPMP was ina very weak positionwhen the financial crisis hit IndonesiainJuly
 1997. Other donor-financed healthprojects, includingother Bank-financed projects for
 provincial health services, iodine deficiency control and safe motherhood, weathered the
 storm without major cancellations. Collapse o f the whole health system was a real
 possibility at the time, while the number o fHIV/AIDS cases was very low. Very little
 work occurred on the Project, post-crisis. A supervision mission inJune-July 1998
reportedthat the MOH and Bappenas had decided to cancel approximately 80 percent o f
the loan. This was formally confirmed at the time o fthe initial restructuringo f the entire
Bankportfolio, inAugust, 1998, inthe wake ofthe financial crisis. Ofthe $5.0 million
remaininginthe loan, over $3 million had already been disbursed. The cancellationtook
place following months o f effort bythe staff to turn around the poor performance o f the
Project.

3.5          While no aspect ofthe Bank's portfolio escapedcritical scrutiny, the HSPMP
was cut muchmore dramatically than other projects. Hadthe Project shown reasonable
prospects for achieving its objectives, the HNP staffwould have endeavored to protect it.
According to decision-makers inthe Bank, the effort required to restructure and redesign
the Project to the new circumstances o f HIV and o f Indonesia's rapidly decentralizing
health system, combinedwith the risks o f failure and the work requiredto ensure a
management system and staff that would effectively function, appeared to outweigh the
potentialbenefits. Inretrospect, the decision to close almost all activities must be seen as
areasonable responseby both the GO1andthe Bank, since the Project, as designed,
seemedto have lost its priority andrelevance indramatically changed social, political and
economic conditions, andhad clearly had lost its constituency amongkey Indonesian
stakeholders.

3.6          The management problems affecting the HSPMP touched procurement and
financial management. Twice - inJanuary 1998 and January 1999 - the Bank advised the


12.. Some other donor-financed HIV/AIDS projects also suffered from the financial crisis and the changing context for
HIViAIDS work inIndonesia. A UNDPproject was particularly affected (Janssen andPurwaningsih 2003)

                                                      8


 P M Uthat unless audited financial statements were received by the end o f March, the
 Bank would not extend the closing date o f the loan andwould delay Boardpresentation
 o f new loans benefiting the MOH. InFebruary 1999 the Bank informedthe Ministryo f
 Finance (MOF) that auditors were unable to audit certain HSPMP expenditures because
 of lack o f documentation. The Banktherefore requiredthat the government deposit funds
 into the Special Account for the Project equivalent to the amounts for undocumented
 project expenditures. The auditors also found problems inprocurement, excessive
 payment for travel, weakness inprogramming training activities, and distribution o fIEC
 materials.

 3.7         The underlying and unresolved managerial problems that affectedthe HSPMP
 appear to be related largely to role conflicts between the PMUand the main line agencies
 o f the MOHconcerned with the Project -the Directorates for Directly Transmitted
 Diseasesi3 and for Epidemiology and Immunization, andthe Centers for HealthEducation
 and for HealthLaboratories. Furthermore, there were conflicts betweenMOHagencies
 themselves, such as between the directorates responsible for specific diseases and for
 epidemiology, on HIV surveillance. Bybeingstaffed with technical specialists as well as
 administrators, the PMUduplicated functions o fthe line agencies.

 3.8       The fundamental notion to strengthen the positionofHIV andA I D S within the
 MOH, both technically and inits institutionalpositionwithin the hierarchy, was sound,
 andresponded directly to the institutionaldevelopment objective o fthe Project.
 Unfortunately, there was insufficient role clarification and consultationprior to
 agreement on the arrangements duringnegotiations on the Bank Loan and insufficient
time duringimplementationto resolve problems. The Indonesian ProjectManagerwas a
healthresearcher with no experience o fBank-financedprojects, while an administrator
with deep knowledge o fBank operational policies andprocedures butnot from the health
sector would probably have had fewer conflicts with other MOHunits andbeen more
successfbl infacilitating execution ofthe various Project components, though not
necessarily ingaining greater institutionalprominence for HIV/AIDS and STDs within
the MOHhierarchy. Insum, the establishment of appropriate institutional mechanisms to.
addressHIV andAIDS within the MOHseems to have beengiven insufficient attention
as a design issue.

3.9         At Bankrequest, a dossier ofpolicies andprocedures relatingto use o fProject
funds to support NGOs was prepared for review duringnegotiationson the loan. An
annex based on these materials was included inthe LoanAgreement, anddetails were
recorded inthe agreed minutes o fthe negotiations. However, these arrangements were
not converted into appropriate internalinstructions within the GOI, nor were they
communicated to provincial financial authorities, who continued to operate for NGO
contracting underpre-existing rigidMOF rules. I t was only late in 1998 -near the end o f
the execution o fmost Project activities - that a Bappenas-MOF circular was issued that
resolved outstanding issues.




13 .The term 'Directly Transmitted Diseases' is used inthe IndonesianEnglishtranslation of decrees and
other working documents.

                                                9


 3.10       The Indonesian financial andpolitical crises o f 1997 and 1998 highlightedtwo
 weaknesses inthe design o fthe HSPMP - short duration andweak monitoring and
 evaluation. As an effort to develop newinstitutional mechanisms for STD and HIV
 prevention and management, the Project would probablyhave requiredlonger than the
 three years initially planned. Had a normal five-year implementationperiod been
 envisaged, a full mid-term review (MTR) couldhave beenbuilt into the Project, with
 substantial mid-course correction. The Project was labeled a pilot. A true pilot would
 have inclitded an evaluation design, establishment o f control populations, and baseline
 surveys before initiation o fproject preventionactivities. While large numbers o f
 performance indicators were established duringProject preparation and appraisal (Annex
 D), `baseline' surveys were executed only inthe thirdyear ofthe Project when itwas
 already near closure.

 3.11       The flexibility reported as an important strategic element inthe S A R was a
 positive design feature but didnot work out inProject implementation. Bank resources
 were conceivedto be used as a complement to other donor funding. The notion of
 complementaritywas reflectedinthe assignment of responsibility for coordination of all
 donor-financed HN/ALDS projects to the PMU, but was not adequately reflected inthe
 specific management arrangements within the MOH. The assignment o f responsibility
 for donor coordinationto the PMUwas never realizedinpractice, andwas largely
 unknowninthe donor community. The flexibility underscored inthe S A R could have
made the Project into an evolving tool for GO1response to a changing, poorly understood
diseasethat was potentially threatening but only inways that were not fully understood at
the time o f Project design. No MTR, with the possibility for correction and changing
course, was foreseen inthe S A R or inthe Loan Agreement. There was no provision for
annual reprogrammingand updatingo fwork programs, aside from consultant services,
fellowships andtraining, or for a project implementation manual. Management advised
the task team prior to negotiations that, giventhe pilot nature of the Project, it was
important to buildinthe possibility o f change after initial experience. The decisionnot to
draw upon instrumentswidely used inother Bank-financed operations, such as a project
implementationmanual, anMTR, andannual work programming, seems to have been
dnvenby the short duration o fthe Project as designed.

3.12       The early discussions within the Bank andwith the Indonesianauthorities
concentrated onhigh-risk populations, but the project as appraised dilutedthis to an
emphasis on behavior change through (i)     increased knowledge o fHIV risks while
reinforcing traditional values andnorms `withinthe population'; (ii)   enhanced skills in
risk reduction for those engaged inhigh-risk behavior; and (iii)  promotion ofthe use o f
STD services. Further dilution occurred duringimplementation.

                                                            10


  4. Outputs and Outcomes,by Objective

 DEVELOP        INSTITUTIONS FOR REDUCINGSTD AND HIV TRANSMISSION

 4.1           Despite the limitedportion o f the Bank loanthat was used, the Project
 producedsome outputs important to the strengthening o f a number of institutions critical
 to STD and HIV prevention.

 4.2           Health careprovider skills: More than 2,000 health care providers were trained
 on the syndromic approach to managingSTDs, largely at the provincial level inJakarta
 and Riau. However, as the implementationcompletion report (ICR) observes, the
 training took place insingle sessions without follow-up through refresher training or
 continuous supervision. No evaluation o f healthproviders' knowledge and skill was
 conducted after the training. Surveillance training was provided to 2,500 healthworkers
 ineightprovinces. Supervisory visits werenot carried out, however.

 4.3           Surveillance of HIV and STDs: The Project produced eight Standard Operating
 Procedures (SOPs) for surveillance. Two were disseminated to the provinces, three were
 cancelled, andthree needed improvement. Institutionalrivalries betweenthe MOH
 Directorate for Epidemiology and Immunization(with a sub-directorate for surveillance),
 and the sub-directorates for specific diseases (with their own surveillance activities)
 contributedto the poor quality o f the guidelines andprocedures for HIV surveillance.
 Studies carried out under the Project on infectioncontrol, microbiologicalresistance,
 STDs among pregnant women, and STD management usingthe syndromic approach are
 thought to haveprovidedvaluable inputs, not so much for the project as for future
 policies andprograms. The OED missionwas told that work on SOPs sponsored by the
 Project duplicated similar work under other donor-financed projects, such as the USAID
 HIVandAIDS Project(HAPP). Thisis evidence oftheneedfor the Program
 Management concept inthe SAR that was not realized inpractice.

 4.4          Public health laboratories: The laboratory component was relatively more
 successful inimplementationthan the others, with training o f staff incenters o f
 excellence infour cities, andprovision o f equipment. Planning, however, was weak. Not
 all intendedequipment was procuredbecauseprocurement problems ledto the
cancellation o f one round o fICB.l4Five milliondollars worth of reagents were not
purchasedbecause nationalneeds were found already to have been met by the
government budget. This reflectedinadequate coordination between the Center for
HealthLaboratories andthe DGCDC-EH. A longer executionperiod might have ledto
reallocationo fthe finds rather than cancellation. Laboratory quality assurance for HIV
antibody testingfunctionedwell, andthe Center for HealthLaboratoriesmade good use
o f technical assistance.




14. The Bankresponded to a non-objection request for a procurement award with an estimate that the recommended
bidder's prices were 50 percent to 350 percent higher than international market prices. According to the ICR, the letter
found that collusive practicesbetweenbidders and authorized medical equipment suppliers appear artificially to raise
equipment prices, and recommendedthat supplies be procured through the UN.

 4.5            NGO engagement: While the SAR didnot specify it as an explicit Project
 objective, the HSPMP strived to ensure the design, introduction, and effective use o f
 arrangements for the flow o fpublic funds to NGOs for the provision o fhealth services to
 hard-to-reach populations. Important progress towards this objective was achieved. An
 MOF-Bappenas circular was issued that clarified arrangements, and made it easier for
 NGOsto be able to contract for use o fpublic funds, by simplifyingthe application of
 nationalprocurement rules to them. The ICRreports that contracts were concludedwith
 64 NGOs- an important accomplishment bearing inmindthe rigidities o f MOF
 procedures before the late 1998 circular. Because at appraisal there were few NGOs
 available to the Project (inpart because o f stiff demandfor those already operating by
 other donors), effectively the Projectrelied on creating largenumbers o fNGOs. For the
 NGOsto operate effectively, they requiredtraining, bothinfinancial accountingand in
 their substantial tasks. The former was accomplished underthe Project, but it is not clear
 that systematic training regarding counseling, condom distribution, or other substantial
 HIV-relatedtasks ever was plannedor undertaken. Several respondents raisedthe issue
 o fthe absorptive capacity o f the MOHand the NGO sector for this activity. The
 concurrent USAID HAPPproject routed $3 million throughthe MOH, and the Ministry
 was able to disburse only $1millionbythe end o f the project. A two-year UNDP project
 for strengthening NGO capacity andpartnerships for HN/AIDS program implementation
 was extended to six years but still only implementedabout 50 percent o fplanned
 activities despite the fact that 97 NGOs and CBOs received training and 17 CSOs
 received funds for small-scale interventions.l5

 PILOT INTERVENTIONS              FORREDUCING STDAND HIVTRANSMISSION

4.6           The interventions for reducing STD and HIV transmission pilotedunder the
HSPMP were conceived to address behavior change inhighrisk groups of commercial
sex workers. Injectingdrugusers (IDU)were not targeted, presumably because the
importance of this group to HIVtransmission was not widely understoodat preparation
andthere was little time to modify target groups duringexecution. IEC materials
(posters, leaflets, T-shirts, handbooks, stickers, calendars, booklets, flipcharts, billboards,
andbanners) were produced. Mediatime (radio spots, TV filler, 16mm films) also
supported behavior change. NGOswere deeply involved indelivering IEC to target
populations. The ICR reports that no data were documented on the numbers ofpeople in
target populations who received training or participatedinawareness-raising sessions.
The disputebetweenthe PMUandthe Center for HealthEducation, whichwas
responsible for the IEC materials but wishedan untargeted campaign, was never
resolved. As Figure 1shows, both sex workers and clients inJakarta (one o fthe two
project areas) report consistently low levels o f condomuse for the duration o fthe Project,
despite bothBank and USAID-fundedprojects that focused on changing this behavior.I6




15. Jansen and Purwaningslh 2003.
16. The spike incondom use reported bysex workers butnot clients in 1999 may be related to the economic crisis,
which reduced demand for commercial sex among Indonesianmen. The women working inthe north Jakartaport area
covered by this surveillance are likely to havehadproportionately more foreign clients in 1999 than in other years, and
BSS data show that foreign clients are more likely to use condoms than Indonesian clients.

                                                              12




                     Figure 1. Flat or declining condom use inJakarta



                            loo
                             1: i1    "-Used    condomat last wmmercidsex    -Clients

                                           Use wndoms in all recent wmmercial sex -Clients

                                      +-Used    condom at last commercial5ex -- FSW

                             70 2I         Use condoms in all recent commercialsex-- FSW

                             60 i~




                                     51




                            30 II

                            20 1,
                                I    20

                                   17                                                                           14
                                   12                                                                           11

                                                                                                                4
                             O    C
                                    1996          1997             1998           1999       2000    2001    2002




                        Source: Behavioral Surveillance Surveys (BSS, see Annex E)



 5. Ratings

 OUTCOME

 5.1       Relevance, The initial overall design was, andremains, substantially relevant,
 despite the dilution ofthe targeting during appraisal and execution, inthe context of
Indonesia's priorities andthe Bank's country and sectoral strategies. Current high-risk
targetpopulationswould focus somewhat more on IDUthan CSW. The Bank's 2003
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)" establishes, as a keypillar of strategy, making
service delivery responsive to the needs o fthe poor, with particularreference to health
services. The HSPMP concept fits well into this. Similarly, the Project objectives are
consistent with the 2004 East Asia andPacific regional AIDS strategy."

5.2        The first objective, o f strengthening institutions needed for the preventionand
management o fHIViAIDS and STDs, is highZy relevant inIndonesiatoday. With
dramatic decentralization ofpublic services since the financial and other crises o fthe late
1990s, provincial-level services have assumedincreasingimportance. Strengthening
epidemiological andbehavioral surveillance continues to be important inIndonesia. In
particular, while the HSPMP didnot addressthis problem, dealing with issues inthe
financing o f surveillance i s a highpublic priority, as Indonesia's health system i s
increasinglydecentralized. Similarly, enhancing the capabilities of Indonesia's public
health laboratories continues to be important to the country's priorities andthe Bank's

17.World Bank 2003b.
18. World Bank 2004.

                                                13


  global and sectoral strategies. Finally, the effective establishment and operation o f
  policies andprocedures for improvingthe flow o fpublic funds to NGOs for health
  services, ando fmakingNGOs an active partner inthe provision o f services to hard-to-
  reachpopulations continues to be highZy relevant today, particularlyunder a country
  strategy that emphasizesmaking service deliveryresponsive to the needs of the poor.

  5.3       The second objective, o f piloting interventions to reduce transmission o f STDs
  and HIV, continues to besubstantially relevant inIndonesia. The key problem concerns
  movingbeyond disparate, discrete donor interventions, often associated with highquality
  technical support, into largenationalprograms. This is an issue o fboth intervention
  design and institutionalsupport.

  5.4       Efficacy. Since most of the Bank loanwas cancelled and only a fiftho fthe
 resources were actually disbursed, efficacy -the extent to which the Project objectives
 were achieved, or expected to be achieved - o fthe HSPMP is ratednegligible, overall.

 5.5        The efficacy o fthe project with respect to the first objective, o f strengthening
 o fAIDS institutions, is rated modest. As indicated above, the most significant
 achievements were inthe areas o fpublic health laboratories (see Annex D) and
 establishment o f mechanisms for the flow o f government funds to NGOs for public
 health action. The latter occurred near the end o f the Project's limited period o f
 execution, so they were only putpartly into practice. Their apparent lack o f use since
 then, and the rapid intervening change inthe organizationo fthe Indonesianhealth
 system, risk requiringfuture review and revision o fthe policies andprocedures
 established during execution o fthe HSPMP.

 5.6        The efficacy o fthe project with respect to the second objective, piloting o f
 interventions, is rated negligible, despite the involvement o f a considerable number o f
NGOs. The weaknesses inM&Emade it impossibleto buildonproject experience and
 ensure the learningthat is an essential element o f a successful pilot operation.

 5.7        Efficiency. Overall efficiency is rated negligible. Utilizingthe iwgAIDS
projectionmodelthat assumeda rapid escalation o fthe epidemic inIndonesia, with
parameters similar to an Ahcan epidemic, the SAR estimated rates o freturn on Project
investments, rangingfrom 13 to 41 percent. No economic analysis was prepared for the
Implementation CompletionReport. Available evidence on Project execution did not
justify or permit estimating economic rates o freturn for this report. Whde the AIDS
literature suggests that the interventions plannedto bepiloted under the HSPMP are
normally cost-effective, particularly inenvironments ofhighSTD prevalence, no
estimates are available o f the cost-effectiveness inIndonesiaofthe specific interventions
pilotedunder the HSPMP. With respect to the first objective, on institutional
development, efficiency is rated modest on the grounds that the limited achievements on
public healthlaboratories andNGO engagement likely improved the cost-effectiveness of
the AIDS program. With respect to the second objective, despite the sound theoretical
underpinnings of the plannedpilot interventions, their efficiency as executed is rated
negligible, since little was implementedand there was substantial dilution o f the
emphasis on HRGinimplementation.

                                                        14


 5.8           Overall, despite the substantial relevance o f its design, the HSPMP outcome i s
 rated unsatisfactory, due to its negligible efficacy and efficiency. This flows largely from
 the failure o f the authorities to execute nearlyfour-fifths o f the HSPNP inthe wake of
 management problems andthe Indonesian financial crisis. The assessment o f relevance,
 efficacy, and efficiency byproject objective i s summarized in Table 1.

  Table 1. Summary ofProject OutcomeRatingsby Objective

                                                     Relevance   Efficiency   Efficacy     Outcome

    Objective 1: Develop Institutions to reduce STD                                        Moderately
    and HIV Transmission                               High       Modest      Modest      unsatisfactory
    Objective 2: Pilot Interventionsto reduce STD                                         Unsatisfactory
    and HIV Transmission                            Substantial  Negligible   Negligible

    Overall Proiect                                 Substantial  Negligible   Negligible  Unsatisfactory


 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTIMPACT

 5.9          Overall, institutional development impact is rated negligible. The HSPMPhad
 a modest impact on the enabling environment by facilitating andrequiringthe adoptionof
policies andprocedures for use o f public funds for provisionbyNGOs o fhealth services
 deemed to be inthe public interest. Other impacts on the enabling environment were
negligible. Aside from its favorable impact onhealthlaboratories, the Projecthada
negligible impact on buildingAIDS institutionswithinthe MOHandprovinces. The ICR
reports that the number o fNGOs working on HIV/AIDS increased dramatically during
project implementation, despite the rigidityo fMOF contractingprocedures. However,
only the NGOs already active prior to the Project could maintaintheir activities after the
HSPMPended.

SUSTAINABILITY

5.10          Sustainabilityi s ratedunlikely. First, despite indications to the contrary from
core agency personnel duringpreparation and appraisal, there was very little ownership
o f the Project among the many agencies andpersonnel concerned. Key champions in
Bappenas changedjobs early in execution. Second, only a small part o f the Project was
actually executed, and only 20 percent o fthe loan was disbursed. Third, there were few
measurable outcomes associated with those HSPMP activities that were executed. Only
the public healthlaboratories component may have some modest sustainability. Iffuture
use is made of the procedures for government financing o f NGO services, the
arrangements made inconnectionwith the Project could be sustainable, but no GOI,
Bankor other donor programor projectis knowncurrentlyto beusingthem. Fourth, the
Project was conceived as apilot, but had essentially no effective monitoring or
evaluation. Inthese circumstances, sustainabilitycould not be expected.


BANKPERFORMANCE

5.11         Bankperformance was unsatisfactory onbothquality at entry and supervision.
The concept o fearly interventionwith high-risk groups and support to public goods was,

                                               15


 andremains, fully consistent withBank corporate andcountry strategy. Nonetheless, the
 pressure to advance rapidly ledthe Bank's preparation support andproject appraisal to
 focus on specific technical dimensions o fthe proposedproject andto pay insufficient
 attention to breadth and deptho f ownership, institutional analysis andNGOs. The
 absence o f sound sector work prior to identificationandpreparation, the complexity o f
 the Project, andthe limited period planned for its execution magnified these problems.
 These weaknesses meant that project approval was premature, and contributedto
 subsequent, managerialproblems duringproject execution that were never resolved.

 5.12       As observed inthe ICR, the Bank's supervisory support tended to focus on
 current issues rather thanthe underlyingfundamental problems o f ambitious expectations
 and disagreements on target populations. While the staffpaid attention to the Project's
 development objectives and demonstrated concern for M&E, the solutions proposed did
 not leadto meaningful actionby the MOHor the core agencies o f government. The tone
 o f Bank communicationswas occasionally inappropriate and ledto tensions with local
 stakeholders. The ICRpoints out that when supervision responsibilities were transferred
 from Washington to the World BankJakarta office, supervision missionsbecame rare.         .
 Closenesso fthe task manager to day-to-day Project activities didnot strengthen
 supervision inthis case, but appearedto make the conduct o fregular supervision
missions seem unimportant.


BORROWER      PERFORMANCE

5.13        Overall, borrowerperformance was unsatisfactory. Duringproject preparation,
leadership was taken bythe central planningagency Bappenas. This i s not surprising, in
lightofthe thenprevailingpatterns ofgovernment actioninIndonesia. However, the
MOHimplementing agencies, such as the Center for HealthEducation, andprovincial
level staff had a relatively passive role. Preparatory activities concentrated on technical
aspects o fthe project, such as healthlaboratories andtheir requirements, and gave
insufficient attention to definition o fthe respective roles andresponsibilities o fthe many
parties to be engaged inProject execution. Readiness for implementationwas weak at
the time o f Loan signature. Duringimplementation, macro factors -delays inreceiving
government counterpart funds under investment budget allocations, delays inensuring
adoption o f an MOF circular to facilitate NGOparticipation, and the Indonesianfinancial
crisis -had a strongly negative impact on the Project. Similarly, implementing agency
performance factors were also negative, including conflicts betweenMOHunits,
unresolved role ambiguities betweenthe PMUandthe line departments o f the MOH,
reluctance to make use o ftechnical assistance, and low levels o f commitment to the
Project. Monitoring was all butnon-existent. While detailedindicators were set out in
the SAR, target values were not fixed andbaseline data were only collected late in
Project execution (Annex D). There was no evaluation o f the Project. While a high
quality external review o f Indonesia's HNandAIDS programs was carried out near the
end o fthe Project, discussions with stakeholders suggest that it had little impact. There
were modest levels o fcompliance with requirements o fthe Loan Agreement, as indicated
bythe problems ofdelays inreleaseo fcounterpart funds, PMUrole confusion, and
procurement performance.

                                                16


   6.      Lessons

   6.1        There are risks of amplifiing HIVIAIDS messages in theface of the inherent
   uncertainty in a nascent epidemic. Political commitment was too closely tied to the
   expectation that HN/AIDS would imminently explode under CSW-driven transmission,
  inthe absence ofearly action. As theProjectentered into execution, MOHstaffcould
   see that the alarming scenarios that established a rationale for emergency intervention
  were not being realized, underminingpolitical commitment for the Project. The attention
  ofpolicymakers inevitably turned to other subjects inthe wake o f the financial crisis.
  Yet, there were still good grounds, inthe experience ofother countries, for the GO1to
  devote attentionandpolicy energyto HW.

  6.2         A strategicfocus on HRG andpublic goods is not enough to ensure results in a
  nascent epidemic. Investmentsininstitutional development andmobilization o fpolitical
  support amongrelevant decision-makers andimplementers are even more important.
  Close supervisiono f interventions for HRGi s critical to ensure that the focus is not lost
  inimplementation. Thepressuresto broadenservices beyondHRGwere evident in
  Indonesia and the focus on HRGwas diluted inimplementation. Investments ina low-
  level epidemic that call for reachingout to dis-empowered andmarginalizedpopulations,
 such as commercial sex workers and IDU,need to include continuing activities to nurture
 andexpand political support.

 6.3         More donorfunds may be available than can be absorbed in direct HIV'AIDS
 services in a nascent epidemic. Discussions with donors inIndonesiasuggest that this
 was the case with NGOs. Policy development and institutionalpreparedness may
 initiallybe more important thanwidespread service delivery

 6.4         Closenessof the task manager to day-to-day Project activities does not
 necessarily strengthen supervision. In the HSPMP it appeared to make the conduct o f
 regular supervisionmissions seem unimportant. It is notjust proximity to the client that
 i s important, but the right kind o fproximity.

 6.5         It is unrealisticin threeyears to expect to build capacity, institutions, and
political commitment among the many stakeholders inside and outside governmentfor
controversial activities in highly contested areas like CSW and IDU. I h e HSPMP S A R
appropriatelyforesaw the Project as the first phase o fa long-term engagement, but the
GO1andthe Bank expected to accomplishtoo muchinthe limitedperiod o f a three-year
operation.

6.6          TheIndonesiaHSPMP experience underscores the country specijkity of
decisions on institutional roles and responsibilities and the needfor analysis of
institutional options. InIndonesia, the Bank staff chose to focus their work on
strengthening HIVlAIDS institutions inthe health sector by creation o f an MOHProgram
Management Unit, rather than a more simple Project ImplementationUnit. Given the
growing importanceo f sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) inthe country andtheir
importance as a vehicle for addressing HIV issues, the choice o f focus on the MOHwas
appropriate. The National AIDS Commission was too weak, institutionally and
politically, to be leadinterlocutor. However, the institutional arrangements withinthe

                                        17


MOHpromotedbythe project didnot anticipate the duplicationofroles andconflicts
among units within the MOH, due inlarge part to weak institutional analysis at the time
o fproject design.


                                                  19


 References

 AusAID.2002. "Phase 2 HIV/AIDSPreventionandCare Project." Sydney.
 AusAID and CoordinatingMinistry for People's Welfare. Undated. "Indonesia HIV/AIDS and
        STDPrevention and CareProject, 1995-2002" (completion report).
 DG-CDC, Ministryo f Health. 1999. Final Report: HN/AIDSand STD Prevention and
        Management Project, Jakarta.
Dhannaputra, Nick G.,BudiUtomo, and Sandi Iljanto. 1996. "Operational Assessment o f
        Institutional Responsesto HIV/AIDS inIndonesia". Center for HealthResearch, University
        o f Indonesia, December 1996, fundedby USAID, Contract # HRN-5972-Q-00-4002-00
        FCO #55426.
Elmendorf, A.Edward, Eric Jensen, and Elizabeth Pisani. 2004. Evaluation of WorldBank
       Assistance in responding to theAIDS Epidemic: Indonesia CaseStudy. Operations
       Evaluation Department, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Family Health International (FHI).2003. "Aksi Stop A I D S Program, Year Four Workplan,
       October 1,2003 - September 20,2004", Cooperative Agreement No. 497-A-00-00-00038-
       00, September 26.
Family Health International (FHI).2002. "Aksi Stop AIDS Program, Year Three Workplan,
       October 1,2002 - September 20,2003", Cooperative Agreement No. 497-A-00-00-0003 8-
       00, RevisedDecember 30.
Family Health International, HN/AIDS Prevention Project [HAPP] -AusAID, and Aksi Stop
       AIDS Project- USAID.2002. "Report and Recommendations on Revitalizingthe KPA and
       KPA Secretariat Role, Structure andFunctions", April.
Family HealthInternational, HIV/AIDSPrevention Project [HAPP]. 2001. "Completion Report
       1997 -2000", February 15.
Family Health International, HIV/AIDS Prevention Project [HAPP].2000. "Internal Evaluation
       Report 2000", September 29.
Holzschneider, Silvia. 2003. "HIV/AIDS inIndonesia: World Bank Strategy Note". Draft for
       internal World Bank discussion, July 8.
Jalal, Fasli, HadiM.Abednego,Tonny Sadjimin and Michael J. Linnan. 1994. "HIV and A I D S in
       Indonesia", AIDS 8 (suppl2): 591-594.
Janssen, Paul Land Sri Sunafi Purwaningsih. 2003. "Strengthening GO1-NGO capacity and
       partnership for HIV/AIDSprogram implementation". Endo f Project Evaluation Report,
       Project # INS/95/005, UnitedNations Development Program, Jakarta, August.
Joesoef, M.R., et al. 1996. "Coinfection with chlamydia and gonorrhoea among pregnant women
       and bacterial vaginosis", International Journal of STD and AIDS 7(1): 61-4.
Joesoef, M.R., et al. 1997. "Pattems o f sexually transmitted diseases infemale sex workers in
       Surabaya, Indonesia", International Journal of STD and AIDS 8(9).
Kaldor, John, Tonny Sadjimin, Suharyo Hadisaputro, and Jeanine Bardon. 2000. "Extemal
      HIV/AIDSAssessment, Indonesia, November 1999", DGCDC-EH, MOH, December.


Kambodji, A., M.Linnan, and M.Kestari. 1995. "Adult sexual behaviour and other risk
         behaviours inEast Java". Yayasan Prospektiv: Surabaya.

                                                 20


Kambodji, A.R. and M.Linnan. 1995a. "Preliminary report o f sexual behaviour and other risk
       behaviour survey among university students at private university inMalang, East Java".
       Yayasan Prospectiv: Surabaya.
Kambodji, A. and M.Linnan. 1995b."Preliminary analysis o fbehavioural interviews with 100
       drugusers inSurabaya, East Java". Yayasan Prospectiv: Surabaya
Koambodji, Alphinus, Michael Linnan, Mira Kestari and MurphinYosua Sembiring. 1995.
       "Adult sexual behavior and other risk behaviorsinEast Java". Yayasan Prospectiv,
       Surabaya.
Lieberman, Samuel S. and Puti Marzoeki. 2002. "Health Strategy ina Post-Crisis, Decentralizing
       Indonesia". Health, Nutrition, and Population (HNP) Discussion Paper, World Bank,
       Jakarta.
Linnan, Michael. 1992. " A I D S inIndonesia: The Coming Storm". USAID, Jakarta.
Linnan, M. 1995. "Summary report o f the STD studies in Surabaya, East Java. Surabaya STD
                                                                               "
         Study Group: Jakarta.
Lubis,I.,al. 1997."Second report ofAIDS relatedattitudes and sexualpractices o fthe Jakarta
          et
      WARIA (male transvestites) in 1995". SoutheastAsian Journal of TropicalMedicine and
      Public Health 28(3): 525-9.
Monitoringthe A I D S Pandemic (MAP). 1997. Thestatus and trends of the HIV/AIDS /STD
      epidemics in Asia and thePacijk. Manila, Philippines.
National AIDS Commission, Special Cabinet Session HIV/AIDS.2002. "The Threat o f
      HIV/AIDS inIndonesia i s Increasingly Evident and calls for more Concrete Measures o f
      Prevention", USAID-FHI-AksiStop AIDS.
National AIDS Commission. 2001. "HIV/AIDS and other Sexually Transmitted Infections in
      Indonesia-Challenges and Opportunities for Action", October.
National AIDS CommissiodOffice o f the Coordinating Minister for People's Welfare. 2003.
      National AIDS Strategy, 2003- 2007. Jakarta.
Pisani, E. and others. 2004. "HIV, syphilis infection and sexual practices among transgenders,
        male sex workers and other men who have sex with men inJakarta, Indonesia". Sexually
        TransmittedInfections.
Reis, Edward, Abby Ruddick, and Dr. Suharto. 2002. "Report and Recommendations on
      Revitalizing the KPA andKPA Secretariat Role, Structure and Function", GOI, AusAID,
      and USAID, April, processed.
Republic o f Indonesia, Ministry o f Health(ROI/MOH), and WHO. 2000. Consensusreport on
      STI, HIVandAIDS Epidemiology. Jakarta.
Republic o f Indonesia (ROI). 2003. Estimasi HIV di Indonesia, 2002.Laporan kegiatan estimasi
     populasi rawan terinfeksi HIV. Directorate General o f Communicable Disease Control and
      Environmental Health: Jakarta.
Riono, Pandu. 2001. "Sexual networkmgamong men and STDs/HIV epidemic inIndonesia",
     Public Health (University of California, Los Angeles).
Sedyangingsih-Mamahit, E. and S. Gunawan. 2000. "Situational Analysis for the Indonesia
        HIVIAIDSand STD Preventionand Care ProjectPhase2". Jakarta.


World Bank. 1994. Indonesia: SustainingDevelopment. A World Bank CountryStudy.
     Washington, D.C.

                                            21


World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region. 1996.Republic of Indonesia HIV/AIDSand STDs
    Prevention and Management Project, Staff Appraisal Report, ReportNo. 15118,
    Washington, D.C., January 31.
World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region. 1999.Indonesia: Public Expenditure Review. World
    Bank,Washington, D.C.
World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region. 2000a. Health Strategy in a Post-Crisis,
    Decentralizing Indonesia, ReportNo. 21318, Washington, D.C., November 17.
World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region. 2000b. Republic of Indonesia HIV/AIDS and STDs
    Prevention and Management Project, Implementation Completion Report. ReportNo.
    20566, Washington, D.C., June 16.
World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region. 2003a. "HIV/AIDS inIndonesia -Short Strategy
    Note". Draft, December 17,2003, processed.
World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region, 2003b. Country AssistanceStrategyfor Indonesia.
    Report No. 27108-IND, October 29,2003.
World Bank, East Asia andPacific Region. 2004. "Addressing HIV and A I D S inEast Asia and
    the Pacific", Human Development Network, Health, Nutrition and Population Series.
World Bank, Operations Evaluation Department. 1999.Indonesia Country AssistanceNote,
    ReportNo. 19100, Washington, D.C., March29.

                                         22


 Annex A. BasicData Sheet

 INDONESIA HIV/AIDSAND STDS PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT
 PROJECT (LOAN 3981)



 Kev Proiect Data (amounts in US$million)
                                      Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
                                       estimate      current estimate    appraisal estimate
Original commitment                     24.8              4.51                  18.1

Total cancellation                                        19.80
Total woiect cost                       35.20              5.54                 15.7




                                             Original                      Actual
Appraisal                                                                 08115195
Board approval                                                            02127/96
Signing                  i                                                03/29/96
Effectiveness                                05115/96                     05115/96
Closing date                                 09/30/99                     09130/99




                                              ActuaVLatestEstimate
                              N" Staff weeks                         us$us$(looo)
Identification/Preparation         24.2                                113.5
AppraisallNegotiation              17                                   57.3
Supervision                        54                                  150.3
ICR                                8.4                                  13.5
Total                             103.6                                334.6

                                                  23


Mission Data
                                  Date     No. of     Specializations represented             Performance rating
                             (montfv'year) persons                                       Implementation Development
                                                                                           progress       objective
Identification/Preparation   October 1994     4   1 Population & HealthSpecialist,3            S              S
                                                  consultants, HIV/AIDSand STDs
                            February 1995     4   1 Economist, 1 Population& Health            S              S
                                                  Specialist,2 consultants, HIV/AIDS
                                                  and STD
Appraisal/Negotiation          July 1995      2   1 Economist, 1 Population & Health           S              S
                                                  Specialist
                             October 1995     4   1 Economist, 1 Population & Health           S              S
                                                  Specialist,1 Public HealthSpecialist, 1
                                                  FMS
                            January 1996      5   1 Economist, 1Population& Health             S              S
                                                  Specialist,1Operations Analyst, 1
                                                  Senior Counsel, Legal Department,1
                                                  Disbursement Officer
Supervision                September 1996    2    1 Economist, 1 Population & Health           S              S
                                                  Specialist
                            January 1997     2    1 Economist, 1 Population & Health           S              S
                                                  Specialist
                           September 1997    2    1 Economist, 1 Population & Health           U              S
                                                  Specialist
                           June and July     3    1 Economist, 2 Population & Health           U              U
                           1998 (no site          Specialists
                           visit)
ICR                        April 2000        3    2 PublicHealth Specialists, 1 Project       U               U
                                                  ManagementConsultant

                                                    24


   Annex B: List of People M e t
'




   Adiotomo, Dr. Sri            SpecialAdvisor, Coordinating Ministerfor People'sWelfare
   Moertiningsih
  Aditya, Ms. Baby Jim          AIDS Activist, PartisanClub, Jakarta
  Ahmadi, Dr. Umar Fahmi        Director General,Communicable DiseaseControland Environmental
                                Health,Ministryof Health,Jakarta
  Argadiredja, Dr. Dadi S,      Secretary General,Ministryof Health,Jakarta
  Atmawikarta, Dr. Arum         BureauChieffor Healthand CommunityNutrition,National Development
                                PlanningAgency (BAPPENAS), Jakarta
  Bahaudin, Dra. Nasirah       Chief, Divisionfor InternationalCooperation, Bureauof Planning,Ministry
                               of Health,Jakarta
  Borowitz,Dr. Michael         Sr. HealthSpecialist,East Asia and Pacific Region,World Bank,
                               Washington
  Bottini, Mr.J. Victor        CommunityDevelopmentSpecialist,Social DevelopmentOffice, World
                               Bank,Jakarta
  Dasgupta,Mr. Aniruddha       Sector Coordinator,Infrastructure,World Bank Country Office, Jakarta
  De Tray, Mr. Dennis          Country Directorfor Tajikistan,and former Country Directorfor Indonesia,
                               World Bank CountryOffice,Jakarta
  Dharmaputra,Dr. Nick         Centerfor HealthResearch,Universityof Indonesia
  Djoerban,Prof. Zubairi       Medicaloncologistand medicaldirector, Yayasan Pelita Ilmu, an NGO that
                               benefitedfrom IBRDAIDS Projectand other donor support
  Gingerich,Ms. Molly          Director, Office of Health, Population,and Nutrition,USAID,Jakarta
  Go, Dr. Harry K-D            Team Leader,Sr. Implementationand ProcurementSpecialist,
                               ProcurementReviewUnit, Second ProvincialHealth Project,Departement
                               KeschaftanRI, Jakarta
  Hofman,Mr. Bert              Lead Economist,IndonesiaCountry Office, World Bank, Jakarta
  Hohnen,Ms. Janet I.         Sector Coordinator, HumanDevelopment,IndonesiaCountry Office, World
                               Bank, Jakarta
  Holzschneider,Ms. Silvia    Consultant, Human DevelopmentUnit,World Bank Country Office,Jakarta
  Jalil, Mr. Fasli            Director-General,Ministryof Education (formerly Chief of SocialWelfare,
                              Nutrition, and Health Bureau, NationalDevelopmentPlanningOffice
                              BAPPENAS), Jakarta
  Kartowistro,Dr. E. lswandi  Populationand HealthConsultant, lnsetra Consultama, Jakarta
  Koek, Ms. IreneM.           Chief, InfectiousDiseaseand EnvironmentalHealth Division,Bureaufor
                              Global Health,USAIDWashington (formerlyof USAIDJakarta Mission)
  Komala, Ms. Leila Retna     Deputy Chairmanfor HumanResourcesand CulturalAffairs, National
                              DevelopmentPlanningAgency (BAPPENAS),Jakarta
  Kuntari, Ms. Sri            Social DevelopmentSpecialist,Social DevelopmentOffice, World Bank,
                              Jakarta
  Kurniawati, Ms. Ratna       HIVlAIDSTeam Leader, USAIDIHPN,Jakarta
  Lazzari, Dr. Stefan0        Epidemiologist,WHO Headquarters,Geneva; formerly Advisor, World
                              Bank-financedHlVlAlDS Project,Jakarta
  Lieberman, Mr. Samuel       Lead HealthSpecialist, EastAsia and PacificRegion,World Bank Country
                              Office, Hanoi(formerly Task Manager,World Bank-financedHIV and STDs
                              ManagementProjectin Indonesia)
  Linnan, Dr.Michael          Epidemiologist,Centersfor Disease Preventionand Control, UnitedStates
                              (formerly USAID-financedadvisor in Indonesia)
 Lubis, Dr. lmran             Project ManagementSpecialist, Office of Health, Population,and Nutrition,
                              USAgency for InternationalDevelopment(USAID), Jakarta (andformerly
                              Manager,World Bank-financedHIVAIDS Project, Ministryof Health)
 Mackay,Dr.Timothy            Directorof AusAID Project,Jakarta (contractorcomparableto FHIfor

                                              25


                           USAID)
Mamahit, Dr. Endang R.     Researcher,National Instituteof HealthResearchand Development,
Sedyaningsih               CommunicableDiseaseCenter, Ministryof Health,Jakarta
Marzoeki,Ms. Puti          Health Specialist,IndonesiaCountryOffice,World Bank,Jakarta
Maw-Naing, Dr. Amaya       WHO MedicalOfficer STD/HIV/AIDS,World Health OrganizationCountry
                           Office, Jakarta
Mboi, Dr. Nafsiah          Consultantto NationalAIDS Commission(underAksi Stop AIDS Projectof
                           USAID),former Member of Parliament,former Chair, UN Committeeon
                           Implementationof Conventionon Rightsof the Child
Onishi, Ms. Junko         Consultant, KecamatanDevelopmentProject(KDP) Office, World Bank,
                          Jakarta
Petersen, Dr. Georg       World HealthOrganizationCountry Representative,Jakarta (andformer
                          WHO/GPA RegionalAdvisor on AIDS in EastAsia)
Pick, Mr. Billy           HIV/AIDSAdvisor, Bureaufor Asia and the Near East, USAID,Washington
Porter, Dr. Michael       Consultant,formerly head of the AIDS Unit, Asia Regions,World Bank
Riona, Mr. Pandu          Technical Surveillance,ASA Project, Ministryof Health
Saadah, Ms. Fadia         Sector Manager, Human DevelopmentUnit, EastAsia and Pacific Region,
                          World Bank,Washington
Siltanus, Ms. Fonny       STD/AIDSSubdirectorate,CommunicableDiseasesControl, Ministry of
                          Health
Soekirman, Prof.          Professorof Nutritionand Chair, Boardof Advisors, Koalisi Fortifikasi
                          Indonesia(and Deputy Directorfor HumanDevelopment,BAPPENAS,at
                          the time the IBRD-financedHIV/AIDS Projectwas prepared)
Soraya, Mr. George        Senor MunicipalEngineer,World Bank Country Office,Jakarta
Steer, Mr. Andrew         Country Director, IndonesiaCountry Office, World Bank, Jakarta
Stout, Ms. Susan          Lead Monitoringand EvaluationSpecialist, GlobalAIDS Unit,World Bank,
                          Washington
Suharno, Mr. Djoko        DeputyAsst. for HIV/AIDSand DrugAbuse Preventionand Control,
                          CoordinatingMinistryfor People'sWelfare and NationalAIDS Commission,
                          Jakarta
Sujudi, H.E. Dr. A.       Ministerof Health,Jakarta
Usep, Mr.                 Administrative manager,Yayasan Pilita Ilmu,an NGO that benefitedfrom
                          IBRDAIDS Projectand other donor support
Utomo, Mr. Budi           Researcher,PopulationCouncil,Jakarta
Wibisono, Dr. Bing        National ProfessionalOfficer, HIVIAIDSISTI,World HealthOrganization
                          Country Office, Jakarta (and MOH DG CDC officer when the IBRDproject
                          was prepared)
Wignall, Dr. F. Stephen   Country Director, Family Health Internationaland Director,USAIDAksi
                          Stop AIDS Project,Jakarta
Wilson, Ms. Jane          Country Coordinator, UNAIDS, Jakarta

c,
 ilEl
 Q)
 W
 ed
r"a
 El




 cd
 El
 El
.m
 0
c,
 El
 Q)

 Q)
 +
&
d


4

n
z
*
E
Q
E
a,

-8mm
C

n
u
a,
;
2
n
S




+
3
0
?=
2.
C
a,
0-
S


n
8
to
S

C
-8
c
P
m

E
0
C
m
-m0
C


3
Y
n+
0
m

3
8E




        -
        c
        P
        5

        57
        3
        -2.
        B
        .-X
        2
        2
        Q
        a
        m
        c
        .-
        m
        a,
        In
        2
       1
        P
        L

        .-
        a,
        U
        u)


        Q
        S

        c
        C
        ?E
        s9

              0
              0
           -  0N

sm
L
      hl
      0
      N
      0

                                                         30


 Annex D. K e y Project Performance Indicators


 Outcomenmpactindicators

                                        Ex@&    Reporti F
                                                      w      uency, asstatedin               ICREstimate2'


 I.Goal: ImprovedAwareness and
 Behavioral change in Key Groups
 - Percent of CSWs seenby providers    Quarterly                               Data not available.
 for STDswho:
         - can describe correctuseof a                                        Interviewwith a few CSWs duringthe ICR
                                                                              missionfound good knowledgeon where
            condomaccordingto                                                 and howto obtaincondoms,and positive
            standardguidelines,                                               attitudetoward consistentcondomuse but
         - can explainwhere andhow                                            actual use of condomswas highly

            they mostrecentlyobtained                                         dependenton the preferenceof clients.

            condoms
        - havea positiveattitude
            towardconsistentcorrect
            condomuse
 - Percent of CS Ws in"Iokalisasi"     Yearly                                 Inan assessmentof syndromic approach
 reachedbyprojectwho reportever use                                           training (1998) in district Kepri by NGOs
 of condomand use inlastsexual act.                                           at three "lokalisasi", one massageparlor
                                                                              and MCHclinic reported50% ever use of
                                                                              condoms.Froma BehavioralSurveillance
                                                                              Survey (BSS) conducted intwo lokalisasis
                                                                              in Riau,on average22% of CSWs
                                                                              reported'always use' condoms,and 67%
                                                                              'sometimes use' condoms,54% reported
                                                                              use of condom in the lastsexual act.
   - Percentof personsbytargetgroup    3uarterly                              Meansof AIDS prevention (resultsfrom the
   leavinggroupeducationsessions                                              same BSS): use sterile needle(65%),be
   who:                                                                       faithful (62%0),always use condom (77%).
        - can citeat least2 meansof
           STD prevention
        - statethat HIV is a special
           type of STD;
       -   statethat a personcan
           remainhealthyfor several
           years butstill transmitthe
           virus;
       - expressthe importanceof
           positivefamily attitudes
           toward a memberwith AIDS

 Percentof STD patientsreportedly      )ne day per month                      Data notavailable.
 eekingcarewithin24 hoursof noting
 ymptoms




19. Source: World Bank 1996 (SAR); no baseline or target values were given.

20. Source: World Bank 1996, Annex 4.
21, Source: World Bank2000b (ICR).

                                                            31


                   1nc6uator'~           Expected Repoffi  TAPuency,
                                                             F       asstatedir                ICREstimate*'


  11.Goal: Improved Knowledgeand
  Skillsof HealthProviders




  - Percentof healthworkers trained in   Everysix months,beginningsix months     Data not available.
  syndromicapproachwho, 6 months         afterfirst trainingworkshops
  aftertraining, can:

 - demonstrateappropriateuseofflow
 chart

 - demonstratehow to use a condom
 - explain the importanceof treating
 STDsas a way preventingAIDS

 111. Goal: EstablishEffective
 SurveillanceMechanisms




 - Reportedcondom use with non-         Twiceyearly                             Data not available,
 regularsex partners

            Numberof peopleaged 15
 49 who reportedcondom use inmost
 recentact of sex intercoursewith a
 non-regularpartner
            Numberof peopleaged 1 5
49 reportingsexualintercoursewith a
non-regularsexpartner inthe past
month
- ReportedSTDinddence(men)              vlonthly                                lata notavailable.
(repartedepsodesof syphilisinmen
a& 1549-Dastmonth)
(menaged1519,surveyed)
- ReportedSTD     incidence(women)      Aonthly                                 lata not available.
(reportedwomen aged 1524,
 oositivefor svohilis)
(pregnantwomenaged 15-24)

N.Goal: EnhanceCapabilitiesand
Proficiencyof HealthLaboratory
System
-.Performanceon    bi-annualproficiency Everysix months                         10out of 33 health and hospital
panel(competencyreport).                                                        aboratoriescovered bythe Project
                                                                                onducted proficiencypanelevaluation,
                                                                                Sgularlytwice a year. 75% achieved
                                                                                iaximum score.

                                                        32


 Output indicators

                                                 Expected Reporting               Actuaf/Latest Estin~ate`~
                                           Frequency, as stated ~n SAR"

 IEC- BEHAVIORALCHANGE
 - Numberof groupeducationsessions         Monthly                      Datanotavailable.
 (packages)conductedbyeach provina
 - Number of  peer group education session                              18batchesin DKI and 223 batches in
 conductedby eachprovince                  Monthly
                                                                        Riau. Monthlydata on sessions were not
                                                                        recorded.
 - Percentof  healthprovidershaving        Monthly                      Notincludedin ICR
 receivedbasictraining inAIDS
 awarenessand infectioncontrolby
 province
 - Numberof educationalmaterials           Quarterly                    Various mediafor general community,
 printedand distributedbyprovinceby                                     specifidclosedcommunity,adolescents/
 target.                                                                students, high risk groups, health
                                                                        workers, religiousgroupetc., consistingof
                                                                        54,300 posters, 183,300 leaflets,2,500 T-
                                                                        shirts,5,000 modules, 75,000 handouts,
                                                                        35,000 manuals, 100fillers and 22 films,
                                                                        38,000 stickers, 11,500 calendars, 12,500
                                                                        booklets,2,500 flipcharts
 - Percent of factoriedcompanieswho           ~


                                           Yearly                       Therewere occasions reportedin Batam
have participatedineducational                                          and Kepri districts,but notwell recorded
programs(CEOs,managers,
supervisors)whodevelopformalpolicies
relatedto HIV/AIDSin the workplace
- Percent of registeredCSWswho have        Annual                       Datanotavailable
participatedinat leastone peergroup
educationsessionwithinthe past 3
months
- Numberof NGOs involved in                Annual                       64 NGOs
implementingIECactivities.
- Percentof schools reachedby project      Annual                       Activitieswere reported, butdata was not
that haveorganizedpeergroup                                             collectedannually. Nodata recorded.
programs
- Number of condomsdistributedby           4nnual                       Distribution of condomswas reportedbut
sach projectmanagementunitto NGOs                                       actual records were non-existent.
xoviding IECservices
.Numberof implementingagenciesthat         4nnual                       Numberof agencies was around 23 from
lave conductedfocus group                                               30th provinces.Annual reportswere not
discussionsor other activities to solicit                               Aone
eedbackfrom those servedbythe
VGOs

 Percentof implementingagencieswho        3i-annual                     Vo reportis available
eportat least1supervisoryvisit by
'MU staffduring past 6 months

310MEDICALSERVICES
 Number ofsyndromicapproach               Aonthly                       n Riau: 11batchesinvolving330 health
rainingworkshops conductedby                                            workers. In DKI: 30 batches involving
rovince                                                                 ?,254healthproviders




22. Source : WorldBank 1996.

23. Source :WorldBank 1996,Annex 4.

24. Source: World Bank2000b.

                                                           33


    - Numberof condoms distributed by         Monthly             Not included in ICR
    central province healthdepartment

   - Numberof condoms distributed by          Quarterly          Survey was not done
    health centersldinicsas a numerator
    (sic!, presumably percent) of number
    received
  ISURVEILLANCE
   - Numberof healthworkers trained in        Monthly            2,520 persons in eight provinces.
   newsurveillancemethods

   - Number    of supervisory visits made by  Monthly            No specific supervisory visits were
   central and provinciallevel                                   executed.
   [surveillance] staff
I  HEALTHLABORATORIES                        I
   Equipping/ndkdua/Faci/ifies

   - Compietionof MaterialsChecklistbyeach    First year         22pwincialhdthlabolatoliesandhospital
   laboratory.                                                   laboratoriescompletedthechecklist.

   -CompletionofReadinessReportbyeach         First year         22provincialandhospitallaboratoriesprovided
   laboratory                                                    reports,butonly inthe secondyear.


    Assessmentof TestingCapabilities
   - Completionof Knowledge                   Firstyear          Some laboratories completed the
   Assessment (written).                                         assessment in the second year.
   - Performanceon ProficiencyPanelof         Twiceyearly        Carried out by hboratoty of RSCMhospital,oncea
   sera:                                                         year.

            a)   abilityto determine                             .Carried out by laboratoryof RSCM
                 CD31418levels byflow                            hospital.
                 cytometry                                       .Carriedoutby27provincialhealthhboratories.
            b)   abilityto determine p24
                 levels

            c)   abilityto performCylymadia
II FinalassessmenfofPreparedness            I
   -Visitationandcomp!t?tbnoftheInspection    Everyyear          loneevetyyear.
   Report


   - Secondyear    visitation and Inspection  Second year        lone in the second year.
     report

                                                            34



 Annex E.An OverviewofHIV/AIDSEpidemiologyinIndonesiaz5

 INTRODUCTION

 This epidemiological overview focuses first onwhat was knownabout HIV,STI, and risk
 behavior inIndonesiainthe mid-1990s. The overview thenlooks at how the situation has
 changedsince that time, andlooks for the impact o f any interventions inJakarta, an area
 inwhich several donors, includingtheBank, intendedto beactive.


 HIVAND STIININDONESIAIN1995

 HeterosexualNetworking and S T I Prevalence

 The S A R describes highSTIprevalence inthe general populationand incommercial sex
 settings, based largely on evidence from the port city o f Surabaya. STIprevalence among
 nearly 1,900 sex workers surveyedin 1992-93 was 30 percent overall, with substantial
 differences betweensex workers o f different classes.26

 Among women inthe general population STIrates were far lower. A study o f antenatal
 clinic attenders ina low-income areas o f Surabaya and Jakarta conducted by the same
 team in 1992-93 found that 8.2 percent o fwomen inSurabaya were infected with
 chlamydia, 4-5 percent inboth cities hadtrichomonas infection, and under 1percent in
 both cities were infected with either syphilis or g~norrhoea.~~Several studies inother
parts o f Indonesiahad similar findings.28Truckers, sailors and laborers inIndonesia were
also tested. Prevalence ranged from 2.1percent for syphilis to 8 percent for
trich~monas.~~

The S A R describes these truckers, sailors, andlaborers as being "drawn from and
arguably representative o fthe general populationnot only inSurabayabut elsewhere in
urbanJava." However, generalpopulationstudies bythe same authors recordedvery
much lower levels o f sexual activity. For example, 77 percent o fthe sailors inthe study
populationreported recent visits to sex workers, 10times the highest rate reportedby any
sub-population inthe population-based survey.3oIna more recent household survey only




25. This annex i s basedon analyses by ElizabethPisani for the OED case study o f the Bank's HIV/AIDS assistance to
Indonesia(Elmendorf, Jensen, andPisani 2004).

26. Joesoef and others 1997.
27. Joesoef and others 1996.
28. For a comprehensive summary o f study findings, see ROI/MOH and WHO 2000.
29. Linnan 1995.
30. Kambodji and others 1995. 4.7 percent o f urban males reported ever having bought sex; that percentage fell to 2.5
percent for periurban men and less than 1 percent for rural men.

                                               35


 2.5 percent o f the male population inWest Javareported having sex with a sex worker in
 the last year.31

 A population-based survey inEast Java also found that non-commercialsexual
 networking was extremely low inthe general population. Some 85 percent o f single
 people inurbanareas o f East Java were not sexually active, and monogamy was the norm
 for sexually active menand women inboth rural and urban areas. Just 16percent o f
 sexually active men (and 10percent o f all men)inurbanareas reported having sex with
 more than one woman intheir lifetime. That fell to 4.3 percent for sexually active men in
 peri-urban areas. Some 7 percent o f urbanwomen reported sex with more than one man
 intheir lifetime, andinruralareas only 3 out of692 womenreported anythingbut
 abstinence or lifetime monogamy.32Close to 60 percent o fthe adult population inEast
 Java and 55 percent nationallywas classified as rural inthe 2000 census. Inthe East Java
 city ofMalang, a quarter o f young men and one in 10 young women who were university
 students said they had ever had sex. The students' definition o f "having sex" included
 masturbation and kissingandhugging.33

 Giventhese findings, the assumptions about STIinfectionandsexual networking inthe
 general population inthe S A R appear high.This i s important becausea large part o fthe
 project benefits inthe economic analysis centered on improving the treatment o f STI as a
means o freducingthe transmission o f HIV, and at least some o f the service provision
was focused on services reaching the general public, inparticular women seen at M C H
 services. An overestimate of STI inthe general populationwould leadto an overestimate
o fthe likely spread o fHIV, and also o fthe benefits o f a program focusing on STI
services.


Male-Male Sex

Intheearly 1990s,verylittlewasknownaboutmenwhohavesexwithmen(MSM)in
Indonesia. Therewas virtually no open gay scene, even inJakarta, although foreign
tourists created a demand for male sexual services inBali.

The exceptionwas among waria,transgenderedmales who frequently sell sex to
heterosexually identified men throughout Indonesia. Wuriasell both anal andoral sex; in
anal sex they are frequently the receptive partner, but they also report selling insertive anal
sex. Indonesianand foreign researchershadbeen studyingrisk behavior and HIVinfection
among waria inJakartasince the early 1990s.Unprotected anal sex withmultiplepartners
was thenorm inthis group; HIVinfectionrose from 0 in1993 to 0.8 percent in1995,34
puttingithigherthanprevalence among female sex workers.




31. Riono 2001.
32. Kambodjiandothers 1995.
33. KambodjiandLinnan 1995a.
34. Lubisandothers 1997.

                                              36


 Injecting Drug Users

 Equally little was known about injecting drugusers inIndonesia. A 1994 study in
 Surabaya estimated that there were at least 2,500 IDUinthe city at that time.35Of 100
 drugusers surveyed, 41 were IDU,almost all male. Fortypercent o fthemreported
 knowingmore than 10 other IDU, and 63 percent reported sharing needles. Actual levels
 of sharingwere probably higher because the question as asked did not encompass all
 types of previously used needles. All o fthe IDUreported multiple sex partners; one in
 five said they had used a condom sometime intheir lives, but none used a condom at last
 sex. HIVprevalence was zero, and hepatitis B was 12percent. Ina paper publishedin
 1994, Jalal and colleagues report evidence of druginjection insex workers and others,
 concluding that "injecting drugusemay be greatly underestimated." By the mid-l990s,
 Jakarta's only drug treatment hospital, RumahSakit Ketergantungan Obat (RSKO), was
 seeing 2,000 outpatients a year, and the proportionwho were injectors was rising (RSKO,
 personal communication). The experience of several other countries, including Thailand,
 had shownthat HIV prevalence among IDUcan rise extremely quickly and can
 contribute to developing a critical mass of infection that can seed a wider heterosexual
 epidemic. However neither the Indonesian authorities nor their development partners
 expressedconcern at the time over these early warning signs o f growing drug injection.
 Theprojectionsusedinthe economic analysis o fthe S A R didnot take druginjection into
 account, and no pilot preventionactivities were plannedfor injectors.

HIV Surveillance Data

InIndonesia as inevery developingcountry, H N casereportinggreatlyunderstates the
true magnitude o f the epidemic. For this reasonthat the WHO andUNAIDS recommend
sentinel surveillance for H N -the anonymous testing o f specimens collected fi-om
groups at risk duringroutine service provision. The material below summarizes the main
findings from the national sero-surveillance system inthe early 1990s.


Table E2.HIV prevalence data from national surveillance, 1990-1994/5

Year       Population                         Number     Number         HIV
                                               tested    positive  Prevalence
                                                                    (nercentl
1990       Female sex workers                  4,420        0            0
1991192    Female sex workers                  20,293       0            0
1992193    Female sex workers                  38,444       0            0
1993194    Femalesex workers                   52,870       3          0.006
199415     Female sex workers                  39,790       12         0.03
1993194    Pregnantwomen                        572         0            0
199415     Pregnantwomen                       4,750        0            0
1992193    Blood donors                       533,865       8          0.002
1993194    Blooddonors                        705,345       5          0.001
199415     Blooddonors                        748,813       17         0.002



35. KambodjiandLiman 1995b.

                                                37



 Inshort, data fromveryactive surveillance eveninthe high-risk groups foundthat HIV
 infectionwas extremelyrare inIndonesia inthe early to mid-1990s. Data from a very
 large number o fblood donations suggest that, nationwide, a maximum o fthree
 Indonesian adults out o f every 100,000 were infectedwith HIV.Inthe mid-1990sthe
 Indonesian Red Cross, which conducts the screening, hadno deferral criteria for high-risk
 individuals, and all positive blood samples were confirmedusingWestern Blot tests. In
 the five years from the start o f surveillance in 1990 until 1995, HIV prevalence hadnot
 risen above 1percent in any population inIndonesia. By comparison, HIV prevalence
 among sex workers inThailandrose from 4 percent in 1989 to 30 percent by 1993.


THEEVOLUTION THE HIVEPIDEMICININDONESIASINCETHE BANKLOAN
                   OF
PROJECT

Datacollectionsystems inIndonesiahave improved greatly since the mid-l990s, whenthe
Bankloanwas preparedandappraised. This hasincreasedour abilityto understandthe
course o fthe HIV epidemic andthe behaviorsthat driveit.HIV sentinel surveillance was
expandedto include other sentinel groupssuchas DDU.Behavioral surveillance surveys
(BSS) among high-risk sub-populations beganinthree cities in 1996. A further three cities
were addedin 1998, andthe systemwas expandedto cover 16cities in 13provinces in2002.
One of the two areas inwhich the HSPMP andother donor projects were working, Jakarta,
has beencovered bythis system sinceits inception.


HeterosexualRisk Behavior Continues Unchanged

The efforts of the government and its development partners to increase condom use in
commercial sex andto improve the treatment of sexually transmitted infections appear to
have had very little effect throughout the late 1990s. BSS data show that the proportion o f
sailors buyingsex inJakarta dippedduringthe economic crisis of 1998/99 but otherwise
changed little, showing a slight but statistically significant downward trend from 57
percent in 1996 to 43 percent in2002. Condom use among sex workers andtheir clients
inJakartawas constant or declined duringthisperiod(see Figure 1o fthe maintext) and
STIprevalence actually rose among sex workers (Figure El).

                                                                    38

  1
 I
    Box El. Projections of HIV Infection inIndonesia
    Modeling HIV epidemics is notoriously difficult, especially in the early days of an epidemic and where reliable data on the
   behavioral parameters that drive an epidemic are not available. However, projections are needed to demonstrate potential
   infections averted, if a classic costhenefit analysis of an investment inHIVprevention is to be made.

   Inthe early 1990s, two modelswere usedtoproject the HIV epidemic inIndonesia-EpiModel and iwgAIDS. EpiModelis a
   curve-fitting programwhch was designed not to make forward projections, butrather to compute, using infomation about the
   natural history o f HIV infection, the likely number o f cumulative HIV infections, AIDS cases and deaths implied by a given
   level of current prevalence. Inthe opinion of leading epidemiologists: "Models that use epidemic curves, such as EpiModel,
   should not be used insituations where extensive spread of HIVhas not been documented."         a

   EpiModel was usedinIndonesia in 1994 to make projections describedinJalal and others (1994). The paper predicted that "it is
   most likely that IndonesiawiIl have half a million infections within 4 years (on the basis o f WfO/CDC EpiModel projections)."
   The parameters o f the model are not given, but one of the data points through which the curve was drawn was an estimate of
   current HIV infections nationwide o f between 40,000 and 50,000 (attributed to a personal communication from G. Loth and M.
   Linnan). This is 10 times the number of infections usedby UNAIDS intheir Indonesian models, and 233 times the reportedHIV
   infections. It is over 3,400 times the number o f infections found in HIV surveillance among 40,000 sex workers in that year; the
   sex workers tested represent around a seventhof all those estimatedto be working inIndonesia at the time. Evenusing this data
   point, the epidemic would have had to grow twice as fast in Indonesia as it had in any other country to produce the numbers
   infectedpredictedbyJalal, andothers.

   The other model used in making projections for Indonesia was iwgAIDS. Developed by Stephen Seitz at the University of
   Illinois, it models demographic processes, sexual mixing dynamics, and the force of infection. This complex model was
   structured on African epidemics, and requires very detailed behavioral and biological inputs. In the opinion o f a number of
   modeling experts, it is illsuited to Asian epidemics, which are cpncentrated in high-risk sub-populations, includinginjection
   drugusersand MSM."Attempts to usethe model inthe data-rich environment of Thailand were abandoned inthe mid-1990s.

   The use o f the iwgAIDS model inthe Indonesiancontext appears to have beenbased on a beliefthat the HW epidemic would
   follow the same course inall countries!   Inaddition, the Indonesianmodelappearsto havebeenparameterizedonThai data.36
   InThailand, HIV infection indirect sex workers escalatedfrom4 percent to 30percentinjust four years, while inIndonesiait
   remained consistently below 1 percent even in the epidemiological "hot spots" o f Jakarta and Batam over the same period.
   Survey data available in the mid-1990s give some clue as to why. Consumption o f commercial sex is around 10 times more
   commoninThailand, while Thai direct sex workers serve 4 times as many clients as their Indonesian colleagues. This strongly
   suggests that the use o f Thai parameters would yeld unreliable projections inthe Indonesian context.

   The model results inthe economic analysis o f the SAR predicted that in the absence o f the project, 17,500 people in Jakarta
   would be living with AIDS and 105,500 would have died o f AIDS by 2010, while 140,000 would be livingwith HIV. The
   3,000 cumulative AIDS cases the model predicts for Jakarta in 1995 compares to fewer than 40 cases ever reported inthe city
   at that time. Some 8,500 people were projected to be living with HIV in 1995 -0.15 percent o f the adult population. This
   compares with HIV prevalence in close to 150,000 blood donors recruited without deferral in Jakarta o f 0.001 percent. By
   2010, it was projected that HIVprevalence would escalateto 2.5 percent of the projected adult population.

   The intemal consistency of the model results i s poor. Inthe absence o f war or other cataclysmic events which greatly increase
   adult mortality, the difference betweencumulative HIV infections and current HIVinfections would be expected to be roughly
   equal to the number o f AIDS deaths. In the models published in the project appraisal, there are as many non-AIDS deaths
   among young HIV-infected adults as there are AIDS deaths. Such dramatic intemal inconsistencies are a strong signal that the
   model outputs are unstable.
  Because EpiModel, iwgAIDS and other existing packages fail adequately to describe concentrated epidemics with a variety o f
  sub-populations at risk as they have developed in Asia, the UNAIDS reference group on HIV estimates and projections
  recommended the development o f a more appropriate model. The Asian Epidemic Model (AEM), developed by Wiwat
  Peerapatanapokin and Tim Brown o f the East West Center, i s a curve-fitting model with a significant number o f behavioral
  parameters, which builds a picture o f the national epidemic from sub-epidemics in specific sub-populations. It has been
I parameterized for Jakarta usingdataavailableto the endo f2003, and is usedingenerating some o fthe projections inthis Annex.
  a. MAP 1997. b. Linnan 1992.




 36. The parameters have not been published and repeated requests to the authors of the models for information about
 inputparameters have gone unanswered. Two epidemiologists who were asked to contributedata recall that most of the
 inputparameters used derived from Thai data.

                                                             39


                     Figure El:Significant Increase in STI Prevalence
                                      Among Sex Workers in Jakarta


                100


                 90


                 80


                 70


                60
             E             100% Tis0 18984998              81%rise1998.1998           14% rise 1996-1998


             $ 5 0
                                                                                             A0
                40

                                  28                            29
                30


                20
                   I




             Source: Pisani and others 2004; Sedyangingsih-Mamahit, E.and S. Gunawan. 2000.


                Figure E2: Only One in Ten Jakarta Sex Workers Seeks
                          STD Treatment at Public Sector Facilities


                       +No    treatmentor self-treatment
                       +Treatment      in publicsector
                       +Treatment      in private sector




                 60

                 50

                 40

                 30
                      19
                 20
                      16
                 10

                  O J
                       1996           1997           1998     1s99          2000    2001            2002




Source: 5SS data

More than halfof sex workers with an STD self-treat or seek no treatment. There was a
spike inuse o fpublic sector services duringthe crisis years o f the late 1990s,probably
because these services were more affordable than the private doctors who hadbeenthe
norm until then (Figure E3). More recently, only 1in 10o fthose reporting STD
symptoms reported that they went to a public sector clinic for care in2002, similar to
levels of public service consultationbefore the East Asian crisis. Those usingpublic
services tendto choose hospitals -the proportion usingM C Hor Puskesmas services
was consistently low inall years. Similarly, around halfof the menreporting STD

                                                                    40


 symptoms self-treat or seek no treatment, while the shareusingpublic services has
 fluctuated under 25 percent inall years, dropping to just 13 percent in2002.
 These data come from those who report symptoms. Inthe 1998 STI survey among sex
workers, only 28 percent o fthose who testedpositive for either chlamydia or gonorrhoea
 reported having experienced anyrecent STI symptoms. This means that the proportion of
 those infectedwho are not receivingmedical attention i s higher still.
 These data suggest that STIstrategies that focus on improving services inpublic sector
 facilities to which infectedpeople are expected to self-refer have not been successful in
Jakarta.

HIV Prevalence Among Sex Workers inIndonesia
Despite the failure o fprevention programs to reduce risk behavior, HIVprevalence
remained consistently low among sex workers inmost areas o f Indonesiathroughout the
 1990s. Because the supply o f female sex workers i s large, the tumover o fwomen i s high,
and the frequency o f commercial sex among clients i s low, Indonesian sex workers have
few partners intheir commercial lives relativeto their colleagues in, for example,
Thailand. Inaddition, circumcisionamongmeni s almost universal. These factors
combine greatly to limit the likelihood o f a rapidrise inHIV infection among sex
workers inthe absence o f any other "seed" factor. It i s not possibleto recalibrate the
iwgAIDS model usedfor projections inthe early 1990s with the data on sexual behavior
now available, but the Asian Epidemic Model(AEM) can be used to make comparative
projections. Ifone assumes, as the projectionsprepared for the S A R did, that injecting
drugusewill not assume a major role inthe epidemic, usesparameters on sexual
networking inthe general population drawn fiom studies inEast Java inthe early 1990s,
and adds parameters from the sex industrythat only became available inbehavioral
surveillance from 1996, one can look at the expected development ofthe HJY epidemic
inJakarta.
FigureE3: The iwgAIDS Model inthe Early 1990s OverestimatedHIV Spread by
Commercial Sex, inthe Absence of an IDUEpidemic

                         1
                  400~000   +Cumluative   HIV infectionswith no IDU
                                epidemic,AEM
                 350,0w     +Current   HIVinfecbonswith w IDU
                                epidemic.AEM
                           1+Cumulative   HIV infections. iwgAiDS
                  300.000   +Current   HIV iwgAlDS
                                          -
              Ev)




             Source: iwgAlDS and AEM models.

                                             41


  That seed factor was providedby the HIV epidemic among IDU,discussed below. The
 interactionbetweendrug users and sex workers was the probable cause o fthe rise inHIV
 infection among sex workers that began inaround 2000 -the year HIVprevalence first
 exceeded 5 percent among sex workers inany site. By 2003, HIV prevalence among sex
 workers exceeded 5 percent ina numbero f sites around Indonesia, but sites with no
 infections also remained common, sometimes inthe same city. InJakarta, HIV
 prevalence among sex workers ranged from 1.2 percent to 6.8 percent indifferent sites in
 2003 surveillance.

 Male-Male Sexual Risk Expands as Society Liberalizes

 Surveillance among waria inJakarta stopped in 1997,although the 6 percent prevalence
 recorded that year made this the most affected group inthe country at that time. Itwas
 resumedin2002. Condom use at last anal sex with a client rose slightly over that period,
 but consistent condom use remained low. The consequencewas a rapidrise inHIV
 infection amongwaria, to 22 percent in2002.37

 The social liberalizationthat occurred inurban areas inthe late 1990s saw the emergence
 o f an increasingly active gay scene. A number o f cities opened bars andnightclubswhere
 mengather to meet other men, oftenpotential sex partners. Inaddition, amale sex
 industry(distinct from the transgender sex industry)developed inmany cities. InJakarta
 in2002, menprovidedsex servicesto maleclients inaround 70massageparlors, and
 freelance sex workers also worked ina number o f cruising areas. Behavioral surveillance
 among male sex workers and other men who have sex with men inJakarta, Batam (Riau),
and Surabaya recorded very highlevels o funprotected anal sex, despite quite highlevels
o f awareness about HIV.HIV surveillance was conducted only inJakarta -some 3
percent o f male-identifiedsex workers and other MSMwere infectedwith HIV.

HIV Explodes among IDU

The most significant development inthe HIV epidemic inIndonesiahas beenthe
explosive growth o fHIV among injecting drugusers. This group has been includedin
sentinel surveillance inJakarta since 1996,but HIV was first found in 1999,bywhich
time 16percent o f injectorswere infected. Just two years later, close to halfo f injectors
testedpositive, and similar rates were recorded at treatment centers inWest Java, as
FigureE4shows.




37. Pisani andothers 2004.

                                                 42


           FigureE4:HIV PrevalenceRoseVery RapidlyAmong IDUinJava


               60 1




                    1996    '(987    1998    l999   2ow    zoo<    2002    2003




 Until1998,less than 1percent ofAIDS cases seen at Jakarta's RumahSakit Cipto
 Mangunkusomo, the reference hospital for HIV treatment, were IDU.In1999 that shot to
 9 percent andhas continuedto rise since.38



 Indonesia's Prisons-PossibleBreedingGrounds for HIV

 Theprisonsystem has emerged as a special concerninIndonesia's HIV epidemic. HIV
 surveillance inprisons has shown very rapidrises inprevalence inprisonpopulations -
more than one prisoner infour is now infectedwith HIVinmorethanone province. An
early assumptionwas that risingprevalence amongprisoners merely reflectedrising
prevalence among IDU,since drug offenders makeup a significant and growing proportion
o fthe prisonpopulation. But recently the surveillance system haspickedup evidence of
transmission withinprison. This i s probablyrelatedto ongoing injectioninprison, as well
as anal sex betweeninmates. Since prisonterms are typically short, with arounda quarter
o fprisoners incarcerated for just three months, infectioninjail carries the extra danger that
a prisoner will bereleasedwhde ina stage ofhighviraemia, Ifhe resumes sexual activity
or injectingon release, the likelihood ofonward transmission i s high.

Puttingit Together:The Actual Course of the Epidemic

With the benefit o fhindsight, greatly improved data sources, and more appropriate
modeling software, it i s possible to recreate with some accuracy the path o f the epidemic
inJakarta, andto project it forwardwith greater confidence. The evidence ofthe
surveillance system together with the results o f this exercise show that HIVprevalence
began to escalatesignificantly inthe early 2000s, driven very largely by a new epidemic
inIDU.Thetake-offpoint for the epidemic was about five years laterthan that predicted



38. Sedyangingsbh-Mahamit and Gunawan2000.

                                                              43


 by iwgAIDS, which predictedan early andrapidrise despite the fact that itincludedonly
 limitedtransmission among druginjectors.

                  FigureE5.The ActualCourse of HIV inJakarta with an
                 IDUEpidemicWas Delayed,With FewerInfectionsThan
                  Earlier ProjectionsBasedon Spreadby CommercialSex

                400,000
                        -Cumrialwe  HIV infections- AEM
                        -tCumnt HIV - AEM
                350,OW  -CCumulati~eHIV infections - wgAIDS
                        +Currenl  HIV - wgA1DS

                300,WO




             d5 150.W
             z

                1w.m


                5O.W



                     0




Figure E5 compares the outputs o f iwgAIDS projections made in 1995 andAEM
projections fitted to prevalence recorded inall sub-populations at risk andinthe general
populationuntilmid-2003. By2010, current HIVprevalence was 50percent lower than
predictedby iwgAIDS andcumulative infections were one-thirdpredictedlevels. The
similar levels ofcurrent HIVinfectionpredictedbyAEMby2010 cannot beunderstood as
a validation o fthe iwgAIDS projections, since that modeldidnot foresee the contribution
o f injectingdruguseto the sexual as well as the non-sexual epidemic. Because IDUin
Jakartaare overwhelminglyyoungmenandinjectionis a recent phenomenon, rates o f
sexual activity are hgh.A quarter o fmale IDUreported inbehavioralsurveillance in2002
that they hadhad sex with a female sex worker inthe last year. The sexual interaction
between IDUandother htgh-riskgroups hasprovided a "booster" effect that has created a
criticalmass o f infectioninthe commercial sex sector andthushad amajor impact onthe
unfolding epidemic. While only around one-thrdo finfectionsprojectedbyAEM for 2010
will beinIOU, most o fthe other two-thirds are sexual infectionsthat originatedat some
stage with aninfectiontransmitted byneedle-sharing. As Figure E3 showed, hadthere been
no HIV epidemic among druginjectors inJakarta, a sexual epidemic would not have
developedbythe end of the first decade o fthis century.

Leaving aside models, there is little evidence from surveillance, case reporting, or special
studies that HIV i s spreading widely among people who do not engage indefinable risk
behaviors and their primary sex partners. The exceptionto this rule is the country's
easternmost province o f Papua, where estimates made at the district level at the end o f
2003 suggest that HIV already exceeds 1percent inthe general population.

Inlate 2002, the MOHledanestimation processthat beganbyestimating the size ofeach
at-risk population ineachprovince, estimating prevalence within each o fthose

                                               44


populations, andthen aggregating into a national total. This process, validated by WHO
andUNAIDS, estimated that 90,000-130,000 Indonesians were livingwith HIVat the
end o f ~ O O Z ~The
                 . ~ ' process was repeated in early 2004, but at that time estimates for
around a third of the epidemiologicallymore important provinces were made at the
provincial level, usingdata collectedat the district level. The resulting estimate was in
the same range as the 2002 estimate, but the composition ofpopulations was rather
different. With improved data sources it was found that the number o f clients o f sex
workers hadpreviously been overestimated while infectionrates inmenwho have sex
with menwere also too high.Infectionrose among IDUandtheir sex partners.




39. Republic of Indonesia2003.

