Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25247
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29260)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 51.0 MILLION
(US$80.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
December 30, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2002)
Currency Unit = Taka
Taka (Tk.) 1.00 = US$ 0.02
US$ 1.00 = Tk. 59
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
C&AG                 -      Controller and Auditor General
DND                  -      Dhaka-Narayanganj-Demra
DWASA                -      Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
FY                   -      Financial Year
GOB                  -      Government of Bangladesh
ICB                  -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  -      Intemational Development Association
IRR                  -      Internal Rate of Return
LACI                 -      Loans Administration Change Initiative
LGD                  -      Local Government Division
MGD                  -      Million Gallons per Day
MILGRD&C             -      Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development & Cooperatives
NCB                  -      National Competitive Bidding
QAG                  -      Quality Assurance Group
SAR                  -      Staff Appraisal Report
TA                   -      Technical Assistance
UFW                  -      Unaccounted for Water
WTP                  -      Water Treatment Plant
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director:  Vincent Gouarne
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Zahed H. Khan



BANGLADESH
Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7 Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9 Partner Comments                                                               21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                             42
Annex 8. Evaluation Report Summary Prepared by the Borrower                      43






Project ID- P009482                                       Project Name. Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Team Leader Zahed H. Khan                                 TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name. Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project              L/C/TF Number: IDA-29260
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                           Region  South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Water supply (88%); Sewerage (6%); Sanitation
(6%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   09/29/1989                             Effective: 04/08/1997         07/07/1997
Appraisal   05/25/1994                                MTR: 03/31/1999            02/01/1999
Approval.  12/19/1996                              Closing   12/31/2002         06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency GOB/DWASA/DWASA
Other Partners  Government of France and Govemment of Japan
STAFF           .    Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President       Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager.      Frederick Thomas Temple                   Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Manager        Vincent Gouame                            Mane Robinson
Team Leader at ICR.  Zahed H. Khan                             Jonathan S. Kamkwalala
ICR Primarv Author.   Graeme Lee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactoiy, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible)
Outcome. U
Sustainability. UN
Institutional Development Impact. M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time. Yes
The project combined institutional and physical development to strengthen DWASA's services to
its customers, and successfully constructed a major surface water treatment plant and improved
some of DWASA's operational performance. Nevertheless, as the wholesale institutional change
originally envisaged was not achieved, the overall project is rated unsatisfactory agamst its
original objectives.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective:
The CAS of 2001 notes that Bangladesh's Fifth Five-Year Plan envisions substantial reduction in
poverty within a generation, with the number of poor shrinking by roughly 2% a year until the end
of the decade, so that by 2010 there is:
- a 50% decline in the number of people below the poverty line;
- universal primary education;
- a reduction of maternal mortality rates by 75% and infants under 5 mortality rates by 65%;
- a reduction in the proportion of malnourished children under 5 by 40%; and
- availability of reproductive health services to all women.
The CAS view of Govermnent's strategy was that, although it was sound, it was limited in scope.
It focused primarily on promoting growth, giving less attention to the priorities, sequencing and
inter-relationships among govenmment programs and policies to maximize their poverty reduction
impact. It noted that strong institutions and improved govemance are requisites for accelerated
development.
The basic objectives of the project were: (i) to commence a program of institutional reforms that
would lead to efficient operation of the water and sanitation sector in Dhaka on a commercial
basis and prepare a strategy to enhance private operations and mobilize private finance; (ii) to
increase the life of existing assets and reduce water losses through a water loss reduction and
rehabilitation program; (iii) to strengthen water resources management for the greater Dhaka area,
by optimizing use of available water resources in the most economic and environmentally
acceptable way; and (iv) to increase potable water supply in the Dhaka area by effectively utilizing
available surface and groundwater resources to expand water supply in the Dhaka metropolitan
area.
Therefore both the project and recent thinldng emphasize the importance of strong institutions.
Improving the quality of public expenditure was also given weight in the CAS, and again the
project's drive for efficient operations, reduced water losses, and better water management remain
highly relevant objectives.
3 2 Revised Objective
N/A
3 3 Original Components:
These were:
- an institutional reform program;
- capacity additions and service extension;
- loss reduction, sanitation and efficiency improvement activities;
- institutional development technical assistance; and
- project preparation and implementation support technical assistance.
At face value the components were reasonably related to achieving the project objectives, which
-2 -



in turn remain appropriate given the shortfall in provision of water supply in Dhaka, due to very
rapid urban growth, and inadequate operational efficiency and investment in the sector in the past.
The shortfall in meeting demand, coupled with the inefficiencies of the distribution network, led to
excessive use of groundwater, especially in the old city, which in turn resulted in the aquifer level
falling by more than 3 meters annually in that area, escalating the costs of tubewell water and the
risks of subsidence (although most recent studies have down-played this latter aspect).
The proposed solutions, moving from groundwater to treating surface water while improving the
efficiency of DWASA's services, continue to be valid, but the complexity and scale of Dhaka
implies complex solutions, which proved difficult to achieve in a single, comprehensive project.
The institutional reform program included enactment of a WASA Act, placing DWASA in
approximately the same circumstances as those facing companies, and thereby gaining greater
management autonomy from GOB (although GOB would still own the institution); defining the
DWASA Board's role on policy and corporate planning matters, including strengthening
professional management by appointment of a Managing Director; requiring DWASA to meet
operational performance targets; and introducing the notion of private sector participation in
DWASA operations.
Capacity additions mainly consisted of construction of a 50 million gallons per day (MGD)
surface water treatment plant, and associated works including transmission and distribution
systems rehabilitation and site development. This plant represented a major strategic change for
DWASA, away from near exclusive reliance on groundwater for its water supply, to utilizing
treated surface water.
Loss reduction. sanitation and efficiency improvements comprised reducing technical water losses
through leak detection, system rehabilitation, tertiary distribution and a crash metering program;
and for sanitation, preparation of a sanitation master plan for Dhaka and the first stage of
investments in low cost sanitation, and system rehabilitation.
Institutional development technical assistance consisted of an extensive twining program (through
contracting with a utility/consulting engineer consortium), staff training, support for paying
contract staff at prevailing market rates, assistance with contracting-out billing and collection (to
help address commercial losses), a study of options for greater private sector participation, and a
Water Resource Management Study for Dhaka Region.
Project preparation and implementation support technical assistance included design of ancillary
works, drafting the revised WASA Act, construction supervision and a network analysis of the
distribution system.
3.4 Revised Components
Due to failure to implement the project's institutional development concepts, the project was
suspended in November 2000 for a period of five months. The suspension was lifted after the
conditions were met but the Credit closed six months earlier than originally scheduled and,
accordingly reduced in size by approximately $15 million equivalent by the cancellation of Phases
2 and 3 of the leak detection program, the tertiary distribution pipeline works and house
- 3 -



connections, some of the meter installation program, the sanitation works, and the tubewell
regeneration program. The procurement of vehicles, equipment, and computers and software
became so delayed that they could not be completed within the reduced project period, and were
eventually dropped. DWASA reports that key elements of these items, such as the rehabilitation
of the water supply distribution system and improvement of the sewerage system, are now being
undertaken with GOB funding and bilateral funding is also being sought. The component-wise
costs at appraisal and ratings are given below:
Component                   Cost At Appraisal             Rating
(US$ million)
Capacity Addition &              134 9                      S
Service Extension
Loss Reduction, Sanitation &      18                        U
Efficiency Improvements
Institutional Development         8.9                       U
Project Preparation And          8.1                        S
Implementation Support
3.5 Quality at Entry
Although the project was not formally assessed for quality at entry, a QAG review of supervision
commented that "from the beginning, the Project was likely to fail because the project
(institutional) development objectives were too ambitious and not owned by the client". The
review further drew attention to the need for a realistic assessment of the structure and severity of
the environment in which DWASA operates, which it considered had not been made, despite the
lessons of the earlier three projects with DWASA - hence eliciting the comment in the report that
the project had chronic problems at entry. In retrospect, the lack of application of the
Government and DWASA in actively adopting and fully implementing the institutional
development objectives would suggest that there was a significant lack of ownership on their part
of this component. The component, and particularly the move towards involvement of the
private sector in public utilities, might well be a reflection of emerging international experience at
that time, rather than the aspirations of institutions in Bangladesh.
Certainly, it was a factor influencing the time taken to make the project effective. The original
approval of the project's concept in 1989 did not lead directly to appraisal. Rather, this was
delayed until 1994 to ensure that the third project was completed, during which time the emerging
international evidence of the role of the private sector in utility operations became better known,
resulting in Bank-driven interest in including more of this approach in the new project. This was
eventually accepted (in the form of initial contracting-out of billing and collection, plus a more
detailed study of PSP options for DWASA). Contracting-out of two DWASA revenue zones
became a condition of credit effectiveness, which in turn caused delay due to the unions
reluctance to accept this concept.
This indication of lack of ownership could have been confirmed sooner had the project's
covenants included actions reinforcing the importance of institutional development early on in the
project's life. This, together with concentrated supervision effort at the beginning of the project
to try and achieve the covenanted goals, would have sent clear signals about the lack of borrower
-4 -



ownership of the institutional development objective - and may therefore have allowed time to
address and sort out the concerns, or failing this to cancel the project, before the major
infrastructure contracts had been awarded.
Principally due to it not confirming the strength of the government's commitment to institutional
development, the quality at entry for the project is assessed to be unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project had four objectives:
a) to start institutional reforms to enhance the efficiency of the water and sanitation sector in
Dhaka by putting it on a commercial basis, and preparing a strategy for greater private
sector participation;
b) to increase the life of existing assets and reduce water losses;
c) to strengthen water resource management for greater Dhaka by optimizing water use; and
d) to increase potable water supply in Dhaka using surface and groundwater resources.
Overall it is judged that the project was unsatisfactory in achieving its major objective - a
program of institutional and policy reforms that would lead to efficient operation of the water and
sanitation services in Dhaka on a commercial basis - even though the project's major physical
works were completed satisfactorily, below budget and ahead of time, and a number of positive
aspects concerning DWASA's institutional development were achieved, which are discussed
below.
Underpinning the program of institutional ref9rms was a plan to increase DWASA's autonomy
which was proposed by amending the WASA Ordinance to incorporate more autonomy for
DWASA by strengthening its Board, introducing commercial regulations and reducing GOB's
role. This was assisted by a policy statement which defined respective roles, and a performance
agreement which set targets for DWASA to achieve, to be reviewed annually. In addition,
DWASA's management was strengthened by the appointment of a Managing Director from the
private sector, backed up by three Deputy Managing Directors, and institutional strengthening
was supported by a twinning arrangement, designed to focus upon efficiency and commercial
aspects of DWASA's operations.
The targets and achievements are shown in Annex 1. High consumption levels and 24 hours of
service are positive factors for raising consumer satisfaction, although consumption levels may
arise mainly due to the lack of effective metering / charging policies. Negative features are the
amount of unaccounted for water remaining higher than target - an increasingly important factor
as the more expensive treated surface water comes on line; the excessive amount of receivables,
despite the budgetary agreement which has lowered public sector receivables - which makes
DWASA into a net lender of money; and DWASA's failure to earn the anticipated contribution to
investment, which is essential for eventual financial autonomy. Nevertheless, DWASA is
continuing to pursue its own programs to address the first two of these problem areas, both of
which are fundamental shortcomings.
- 5-



Achieving the objective of increasing the life of assets and reducing water losses was supported by
an extensive metering program, some pipeline rehabilitation, and leak detection training through
the twinning consultancy. In the event these efforts, despite making initial improvements, were
unsuccessful in achieving the objective. The level of unaccounted for water in 2001 stood at
43%, rather than the 30% targeted. Meter coverage was also below target, at 70% rather than
the intended 95%. Nevertheless, the concept of contracting out billing and collection has been
adopted by DWASA in two of its revenue zones, although using the atypical approach of
contracting with an entity formed by its own staff unions. Due to the relative success of this,
DWASA are extending the approach, but attempting in so doing to engage private sector firms
for the work.
Improving water resource management by optimizing the use of the available resource is
embedded in DWASA's changed policy of treating surface water in place of (over)utilizing
ground water resources. Use of deep tube wells is reducing, and plans for future growth place
much greater emphasis on surface water treatment plants. This is in part due to DWASA
establishing that the problems it was experiencing in falling output from tube wells was not due to
their becoming encrusted, but rather due to the fall in the water table, which reached 3 meters per
year in certain areas.
Increasing potable water supply in Dhaka by effectively using available surface water and
groundwater resources was achieved satisfactorily in the project through the completion of the
Saidabad Water Treatment Plant, which is capable of adding 225 million litres per day (MLD) to
current production, and of expansion by a further 225 MLD.
4.2 Outputs by components:
a) Institutional Reform
As noted, the objectives aimed at institutional development were generally not successful when
compared with the original objectives, perhaps as the project did not take sufficient account of the
agency's, the sector's and the country's limited capacity to absorb and implement wholesale
institutional changes. The proposed program of change was wide-ranging, and implied that
fundamentally different approaches of working be adopted by DWASA.
In the event, maybe because the program of change was never fully owned by the Bangladeshi
agencies concerned, watered-down compromises were often the best that could be achieved
during implementation. The changes introduced failed to put the agency onto a commercial basis,
and so far appear unlikely to be fully sustained as they continue frequently to be seen as extemal
impositions which were accepted only as long as the direct costs of them were met from a project,
and not by DWASA. Other changes, such as improvements to the accounting and costing system,
were designed but have not yet been implemented by DWASA, thereby raising questions about
relative priorities.
One exception is the contracting-out of meter-reading, billing and collection of service charges,
which is still being actively undertaken under contract with a cooperative formed by the DWASA
staff unions, as described above. (Interestingly, the cooperative has installed computer based
- 6 -



systems, although it still maintains manual records as well.)
Nevertheless, as shown in Annex 1, overall most performance indicators did improve during the
life of the project, and DWASA has its own programs set up to deal with many other areas of
weakness, so in terms of output the reforms have had some, albeit modest, impact.
b) Capacity Additions and Service Extensions
This component was: "to increase potable water supply in the Dhaka area by effectively utilizing
available surface and groundwater resources to expand water supply in the Dhaka metropolitan
area."
All planned civil works, and the electro-mechanical works financed by the Government of France,
for the surface water treatment plant (WTP! contracts have been completed and are rated
satisfactory. Considering the degree of procurement-related delay during the first two years of
project implementation, slippages in implementation, inadequate delegation of authority to several
project directors, and the suspension of Credit by the Bank due to GOB not meeting its
obligations in implementing various agreed actions, the achievement of completing the WTP
within the reduced project period and within budget is worthy of praise.
Various components of the water supply system were tested and made operational in June 2002
and the system is functioning.
-7 -



A summary of the works appears in the table below.
Sununary of Physical Works
By Component
Component            Detail                                    Rating
A) Water Treatment
Plant and Associated
Works                                                           Satisfactory
Sarulia Raw Water Intake Pumping Plant and
Twin Culvert
DND Canal Rehabilitation and Treatment Plant
Site Development
Twin Culvert from DND Canal to Saidabad
Water Treatment Plant
Saidabad Water Treatmnent Plant - Civil Works
Supply and Installation of Electro-Mechanical
Equipment for Saidabad Treatment Plant
Ancillary Structures at Saidabad Treatment
works
B) New Pipelines     Primary Transmission and Part of Secondary
Network for distribution of WTP water supply  Satisfactory
C) Distribution
Systems Rehabilitation
Leak Detection and System Rehabilitation  Satisfactory
Tubewell Regeneration                     Cancelled
D) Expansion of
Service Connections                                             Unsatisfactory
Tertiary Distribution and House Connections  (cancelled)
Crash Metering Installation Program       (cancelled)
Procurement of Meters                      Partially
completed
E) Development of
Sewerage/Sanitation                                             Unsatisfactory
Study on Improved Sanitation
Physical Works/ Sewerage Rehabilitation and  Cancelled
Latrines: Deferred and then cancelled.
F) Institutional Development Technical Assistance
Institutional Development
Under the project, the following sub-components were planned:
* a Water Resources Management study of the Dhaka region : To obtain comprehensive
-8 -



knowledge of management of water resources in Dhaka;
*   Management and Operational Support (Twining) Program. To assist DWASA improve its
operational efficiency;
*   contracting out DWASA's billing, collections, meter repair services to the private sector;
*   training for DWASA staff to improve their skills in commercial operations;
*   appointment of senior staff for management support; and
*   a strategy study to asses options for private sector participation including a strategy for
mobilizing private financing.
Water Resources Management Study: The study was completed and highlighted the need to
protect the environment in the raw water catchment area - which led to the notification of the
Environmental Protection Zone, and the strengthening of DWASA's capacity to monitor
pollution.
Management & Operational Support (Twining) Program: The twining consultants produced 19
manuals containing 122 specific recommendations, and over half of these have been implemented
or adopted, with the balance being mainly in process. They also identified 157 water mains
rehabilitation works with an aggregate length of about 200 km. Up till now, a length of around
50 km has been rehabilitated, plus under other projects approximately 40 km of distribution mains
have been rehabihtated and orders issued for a further 31 km.
Contracting out of DWASA Services: As described above, the contracting-out of meter reading,
billing and collection has taken place in two of DWASA's six revenue zones, and based upon its
success DWASA intends to continue to expand the program.
Training (DWASA): Training courses / seminars were held by the twining consultants, but some
training, especially foreign training, did not take place due to the late initiation of the program, the
Credit suspension and the early Credit closure.
Management Support (Senior Contract Staffl: DMDs financed under this section worked up to
the Credit closure, but have not been extended beyond by GOB/DWASA. The Managing
Director remains, but on contract terms which offer no period of notice, or compensation for, any
dismissal and which are therefore unsatisfactory.
Private Sector Participation Options Study: The study recommended a two stage approach to
engaging private sector participation in Dhaka; first, two management contracts should be
awarded for water supply and sanitation each covering about half of DWASA's area; and second,
coinciding with the completion of the water treatment plant, a long term concession should be
awarded for the entire city. The study's results were reviewed by DWASA and GOB, and a
workshop held to advise and involve stakeholders in consideration of the findings. GOB set up an
inter-ministerial working group early in 1999, but its recommendations are awaited.
Overall, although much of this component occurred as planned, the anticipated impacts in terms
of major institutional development were not achieved, and instead piecemeal changes have been
implemented. While these have had some modest beneficial effects, the change is not on the scale
-9-



originally proposed and hence the component is considered unsatisfactory.
G) Project Preparation / Implementation Support Technical Assistance
To assist DWASA to implement the project effectively and efficiently, intemational consultants in
association with local consultants were engaged for:
a) procurement of miscellaneous equipment;
b) design of ancillary works and the drafting of revisions to the WASA Law;
c) design and construction supervision of treatment plant, distribution system, intake
structure, ancillary structure and consultancy services for the network analysis; and
d) implementation of the tariff study.
The main elements of this component, design, legal drafting and construction supervision, were
successfully executed, and hence the sub-component as a whole can be considered satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
After concluding that the best approach for the much needed expansion of water supply in Dhaka
was the Saidabad WTP plus a cautious expansion of deep tubewells, taking into account any
possible water abstraction consequences, the economic analysis in the SAR focussed on a cost
benefit analysis of the WTP (with associated water mains rehabilitation and leak detection
programs), which it determined had an IRR of 22%. These results, which took into account the
costs and benefits of the WTP, the improvements to the distribution network, and associated
technical assistance, were robust: the project remained economically feasible even if costs almost
doubled, or only 50% of the benefits were achieved.
This analysis has not been repeated in detail for the ICR, given that there is no available evidence
to indicate a change in the demand curve for water, and that the actual marginal costs for the
WTP and associated works (as calculated by DWASA) is Tk. 8.8 per m3, less than the original
SAR estimate of Tk. 10 per m3, hence implying that, if recalculated, the economic results would
be even more satisfactory than originally estimated.
With the increase in water supply capacity from the water treatment plant fully completed, but the
construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary networks under the project coupled with
the ongoing system rehabilitation program only partly achieved, the economic returns will not be
quite as high as the reasoning above suggests. As UFW remains about 10% higher than originally
anticipated, net benefits are reduced by a similar proportion, but still the project produces an IRR
greater than 20% when flows are discounted at 12%, which is satisfactory.
Further details appear in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
No financial rate of return was calculated in the SAR. In the ICR a tentative forecast of
DWASA's finances, taking account of the project, has been undertaken, which follows.
Opinions differ about whether or not the output from the WTP gives scope for additional sales of
water, or whether it is wholly a substitute for groundwater, and as such, shall raise no additional
-10-



income despite incurring additional expenditures. The following analysis of DWASA's financial
outlook compares different scenarios, combining annual net revenue increases of either 5% or
10% with altemative assumptions about the proportion of WTP water which represents additional
sales. The table shows the financial year in which DWASA would achieve a break-even in tenns
of its surplus/deficit (after interest but before depreciation) and its Net Profit under a variety of
such options.
Financial Year of Break-Even
Surplus/Deficit before           Net Profit
Depre ciation
Annual Net           5%          10%            5%             10%
Revenue
Increase
No additional
water sales         FY05         FY03     Well After FY06      FY05
25% of WTP
output is           FY03         FY03        After FY06        FY05
additional sales
50% of WTP
output is           FY03         FY03          FY06            FY04
additional sales
Although the forecast is very approximate, as it is not based upon a calibrated model, and does
not take into account any other investrnent by DWASA during the period, it indicates that the
additional costs of owning and operating the WTP will require DWASA to achieve annual
increases in net revenue in order to break even, but that these are of an order which should be
within reach. (The annual increase in net revenue could arise from a tariff increase, improved
collection performance - and hence lower provision for bad debts - reduced unaccounted for
water (UFW), cost efficiencies, or a combination of these. The table merely aggregates all efforts
into a single annual percentage increase.)
Achieving a break-even in terms of surplus after interest but before depreciation does not appear
too difficult, but once depreciation is included the outlook changes, and with 5% annual increases
in net revenues DWASA only manages to achieve a break-even in Net Profit if it is assumed that
50% of the WTP output (or its equivalent in other efficiency gains) provides additional sales. As
depreciation is a non-cash accounting entry, in itself this need not be of immediate concem to
DWASA's liquidity, but to the extent it mirrors actual repayment of loan principal, liquidity is
affected and would make the option of "no additional water sales" unsustainable without annual
increases nearer to 10%.
Fortunately for DWASA there appear to be a number of avenues to pursue improved efficiency -
leak detection, reduced UFW through contracting-out meter reading, billing and collection, tariff
increases (the DWASA management has apparently agreed to target a 10% increase per year for
- 11 -



the next 5 years), and demand management - which shall in part be managed by higher tariffs,
provided customers are billed according to their actual consumption through enhanced programs
of meter installation and repair.
The improved quality and cost of the Saidabad WTP's water provides the opportunity to
implement tariff increases, but also makes more urgent the need for improved efficiency by
DWASA to ensure the better quality water reaches its customers in good condition.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
There has been modest institutional development impact of the project, and the sustainability of
what has been achieved appears doubtful in several cases. Only the contracting-out of the meter
reading, billing and collection seems to have taken hold fuimly. The new management structure
has all but gone, except for the Managing Director whose recently-extended contract terms are
considered unsatisfactory. While it may have been too optimistic to expect major institutional
change in the context of Bangladesh's public service, the project was designed with this in mind
and had corresponding objectives that emphasized institutional change as an expected outcome,
despite this being the Bank's fourth attempt to help DWASA achieve such goals.
Nevertheless, as noted above in Section 4.1, a review of the performance indicators given in
Annex 1 shows most indicators have shown improvement since the project inception in 1994.
But there are major shortcomings in terms of outputs for the level of meter coverage, the extent
of UFW, DWASA's contribution to capital expenditure and the level of receivables. Meter
coverage, contribution to capital, and receivables have in fact deteriorated over the project period.
However, most operational indicators are nearer, or in some cases exceed, target levels and staff
productivity is improved, although not as much as planned.
The impact of the project on institutional development of DWASA therefore has not achieved the
intended target, but has helped it improve in certain areas. The extent to which DWASA is now
capable of continuing to make improvements to its own performance shall show the final
outcome. Financial pressures should provide a good incentive to continue such key programs as
pipeline rehabilitation, leak detection, and contracting-out of billing and collection, and better
service levels should help justify tariff increases - especially if these can be directed at the
better-off segments of the community.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Major floods occurred in 1998 in Dhaka city which, although not directly affecting any of the
project works, definitely diverted GOB and DWASA's managements' attention away from the
project. The complexity of working in a major, densely populated mega-city of course affected
laying the new pipelines, but any delays on this count should have been anticipated in project
design.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Greater attention should have been given to implementing the project as agreed - and ensuring
that DWASA also followed this approach. This would have avoided much delay, the project's
suspension for five months, its early closure and the partial Credit cancellation.
-12 -



Considerable time was lost at the outset of the project arguing about the use of IDA procurement
and financial management guidelines, despite these being obligatory and standard practice. More
serious attention to the intended implications of the project during its preparation might have
allowed negotiation of a project which more accurately reflected jointly held development
interests, rather than ones which were considered to be 'western' biased. Once a project has been
officially formulated, however, emphasis should be given to its implementation, not to continued
dispute about its contents, and MLGRD&C should have monitored DWASA's performance to
ensure this was understood.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
DWASA chose a disaggregated form of project management, with responsibility for different
parts of the project being allocated to respective parts of the organization. While this approach
can lead to better all round institutional development, it does require careful coordination and
monitoring, and care to ensure that specific skills such as dealing with World Bank procurement
guidelines do not become diluted by being spread too thinly (even though, as this is the fourth
project with DWASA, these skills are presumably available within the organization). In
retrospect, the absence of a main Project Director can be seen to have prevented efficient
implementation of several works and consultancy contracts, and led to delays in clearance and
approval of other works. DWASA also considers that it neeeded more up-front training in Bank
procedures (despite this being the fourth Bank-DWASA project), and it should have lobbied
harder for this to be provided. (The Government of Bangladesh has recently undertaken the Public
Procurement Reform Project (PPRP), financed by the World Bank. DWASA is strongly advised
to take the benefit of the training courses under the PPRP to strengthen their procurement
handling capacity.)
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs were some 73% of the estimates at appraisal. The main variations were the cost of
civil works for the treatment plant and for the new primary pipelines (Contract 6), mainly due to
local taxes and duties being much less than originally estimated. Also items which were cancelled
during implementation - mainly secondary transmission lines, and components D to F below -
contributed to the reduced cost. Taken together the cost of the two components directed towards
institutional development and support did not change significantly from the SAR estimate.
Project financing was adjusted according to the lower expenditures. Government of Bangladesh's
contribution was 70% of the amount expected in the SAR, IDA's was 64% and Government of
France's was 89%. Details of these figures appear in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating given to the project is 'unlikely'.
The improvements in DWASA's management structure are not thought to be sustainable - the
Managing Director, although still employed, has been only offered a contract which is less than
satisfactory, the Deputy Managing Directorships are not filled by staff from the private sector
(two are vacant, and the other is filled by a Civil Servant on deputation), and there are indications
- 13 -



that the Board is not respecting the division between its responsibility for interpreting sector
policy, and DWASA's management's responsibility for day-to-day operation.
The concept of contracting out DWASA services does seem to have become accepted, despite the
atypical route followed of contracting out to staff union-sponsored entity. DWASA management
sees improved performance coming from this arrangement, and the Board is in process of
extending the scale of contracted services by adding two more revenue zones, but is aiming this
time to attract independent private sector firms.
The sustainability of the main physical plant, the Saidabad WTP, is reasonably assured in the near
term, provided that DWASA staff receive additional training in its operation and maintenance. As
the Govemment of France has expressed interest in funding the plant engineer to provide this
service, it is assumed that it shall occur and that hence short term concems are being managed.
In the longer-term, the WTP's viability depends on the quality of the raw water provided for
treatment. The problem arises from two areas of concem: first, pollution of the river water
upstream of the plant's raw water intake; and second, pollution of the raw water during its
transmission from the intake to the plant. A number of solutions are available to resolve the
second concem, but the first concem is extremely difficult to manage, as the proposed creation of
an Environmental Protection Zone upstream of the intake would require, to be effective, sustained
coordination and cooperation between several Govermment agencies, some at national and some
at city level. Given the likely complexities and pressures arising from the inevitable development
of the upstream area, this solution appears unlikely to be feasible.
In addition, as discussed in Section 4.4, the project shall present a number of financial challenges
for DWASA which if not addressed by improving efficiency or increasing tariffs would push
DWASA into deficit. If general cost saving programs are introduced which cut into operation
and maintenance, rehabilitation and leak detection programs, the project gains may become
eroded.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition arrangements comprise the following:
a) DWASA has an approved staffing structure for operating the plant, and key staff are
already in place;
b) the engineering consultants shall be asked to extend their assignment to provide additional
operational training to DWASA's staff;
c) DWASA shall take over responsibility for other aspects of operation, and has made an
allowance for this in its FY03 budget; and
d) DWASA has already acquired a stock of the key spares for the plant which need to be
imported.
The status of item (b) above is critical to making the immediate hand-over of the plant a success.
- 14 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending
The Bank performance on this aspect is rated as unsatisfactory. The project addresses a major
problem DWASA faces - its excessive reliance on the use of groundwater causing the level of the
groundwater to fall by up to 3 meters per year, and this in turn raising the cost of using
groundwater and increasing the chances of subsidence, especially in the old city. The proposed
solution, the use of treated surface water, remains a valid option. The design of the project made
use of existing assets, such as the DND canal (originally a drainage canal), and the main water
treatment plant has been constructed with future growth in mind. To this extent, the project was
well conceived and designed.
Where the project has experienced its main problems are the difficult institutional development
objectives, despite extensive twining support and TA being provided within the project design.
Because this is the fourth project attempting many of the same changes that earlier projects have
failed to deliver using much the same incentives, the Bank can be faulted for expecting the
proposed approach to work. There may be a lack of ownership of the need for institutional
change by the borrower's policy makers, or the Bank may just have underestimated the strength
and tenacity of those interests resisting change. But for whatever reason, the drivers of change
were not identified in the project's design. Accordingly, when the traditional approach of
supplying the means for change was adopted, rather than the more complex and painstaking
approach of creating demand for it, the project failed to deliver to the full extent projected.
Given this is the fourth project with DWASA, the Bank should have anticipated that there would
likely be strong resistance to implementing the institutional development component fully, and
designed the project accordingly.
7.2 Supervision
This aspect of Bank performance has also been rated as unsatisfactory. The QAG review drew
attention to three main shortcomings in the Bank's supervision, which it attributed mostly to a
lack of timely and focused Bank management attention to the project. In summary, the
shortcomings are:
a) despite identifying the difficulty the project was experiencing in changing DWASA's
institutional attitudes, the mid-term review was not used to drastically scale back the
project's expected outcomes;
b) use was not made of a Public Sector Management sector adjustment loan to push through
some of the difficult policy changes (despite these being a very effective instrument for this
purpose); and
c) the use of the power of credit suspension came too late to achieve any major change in
DWASA's approach to the project and capacity for good governance.
It nevertheless commented that the supervision team had been forthright in identifying the
project's problems, and therefore considered that Bank management's failure to act on the
information was the critical missing factor.
-15 -



In addition, intensive supervision effort was not made early on, to demonstrate to the borrower
the Bank's serious intent concerning the project's institutional development goal.
This is a pre-LACI project, but an FMS was part of the regular supervision team. There are no
outstanding financial management concerns relating to the use of project funds. The financial
management system of DWASA was strengthened during project implementation and the
Accounting Division, responsible for project as well as the overall financial management system of
DWASA, carried out project related financial transactions satisfactorily. However, improvement
in internal audit functions has not progressed despite repeated Bank recommendations.
7.3 Overall Bankperformnance.
This rating is also unsatisfactory. Although a major water supply infrastructure has been added to
Dhaka's city assets, along with some ancillary works to deliver better services to customers, the
institutional development of DWASA is the aspect of the project which remains elusive.
Nevertheless, the project has prompted sustainable change in the area of contracting-out services,
which may act as a model for other parts of its operations.
In retrospect, the Bank's performance cannot be considered adequate, and the project was not
designed sufficiently clearly to bring to the front delays and lack of commitment related to
institutional development. Nevertheless, if GOB and DWASA now take the steps necessary to
operate and maintain the water treatment plant the project can still achieve some success.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The ratings for borrower performance is unsatisfactory for all aspects, including preparation.
Beginning with initial project preparation, Government ownership was insufficient, reflected in
delays and half-hearted efforts in following up on various requirements at appraisal and for Board
presentation. The institutional reform targets envisaged under the project were generally not
owned by parts of Government and other stakeholders in DWASA, even as a dialog continued
with the Bank to secure IDA financing. In retrospect, some of the agreed actions and targets
were over-ambitious given the general operating environment in DWASA and the Government.
Some actions (such as the contracting out of meter-reading, billing and collection) were agreed,
but were constrained in their timely implementation which contributed to the delay between
appraisal and Board approval. As a result, project implementation encountered difficulties from
the start.
7 5 Government implementation performance:
The rating for this aspect is unsatisfactory; throughout project implementation, the Government's
Local Government Division (LGD) failed to be diligent in monitoring the requirements of the
Project Agreement between itself and DWASA. Following effectiveness, the project faced delays
mainly due to procurement-related problems arising from failure to diligently follow Bank
procurement guidelines at various stages. In most situations, the LGD did not play a pro-active
role in project implementation or in coordinating required actions with other government
ministries and agencies (such as on the Environmental Protection Zone or on the issues of public
sector arrears). Only when IDA had flagged issues with impending deadlines, to the point of
threatening suspension of credit disbursements, did the LGD act. Even later, the LGD has not
- 16 -



followed up on agreed actions with the relevant ministries for example, the implementation of the
Environmental Protection Zone or the DWASA Staff Rationalization Program, which were
conditions for lifting the suspension on Credit disbursements in April 2001.
7.6 InzplementingAgency
The performance of DWASA, the implementing agency, has been rated unsatisfactory. Given that
DWASA had implemented three previous IDA-financed projects, most aspects of its
administrative performance during implementation of this project have been disappointing. While
DWASA strove to complete the physical works under the project, notwithstanding difficulties in
procurement, especially of goods, the same level of effort was not applied to the institutional
reforrnldevelopment measures. In some cases, the implementation constraints were beyond
DWASA's control, such as the DWASA staff rationalization program and the further revision of
the WASA Act 1996, which have stalled in Government ministries.
A disaggregated form of project management, where different 'Project Directors' for various
project components reported to the Managing Director of DWASA, rather than to a dedicated
Project Manager responsible for project coordination and implementation monitoring, may have
caused delays and inconsistencies during implementation of several contracts (including
subsequent cancellation of some procurement) as well as in processing of withdrawal applications
for disbursement.
DWASA's performance in carrying out procurement activities were not altogether satisfactory.
Although the procurement of works and services were carried out satisfactorily, most of the
problems were related to goods procurement. Out of six goods contract-packages, one (for
procurement of 15,000 water meters) was declared misprocurement by the Bank. Procurements
of double cabin pick-ups, a fork-lift and a crane were initiated but could not be finalized as there
was not adequate time for processing these contracts before the Credit Closing Date. The
procurement of computers and software could possibly have been completed had DWASA more
diligently adhered to the Bank's procurement procedures and guidelines m evaluating the bids for
this procurement.
In general, though, even without adequate achievement of the institutional development objectives
under the project, DWASA should be credited with managing the completion of most physical
works related to the Saidabad Water Treatment Plant within time and without cost overruns.
The Bank did not receive DWASA's audit reports on time for FY2000 and FY2001, although
these were made available by DWASA for the ICR mission. Despite repeated requests, DWASA's
management paid little attention to the non-compliance of the finance covenant of the DCA at the
time, perhaps because the project was already suspended for other reasons.
The audit report from the C&AG was received on time and DWASA responded satisfactorily to
all material audit observations that needed further clarification from the Bank's point of view.
However, there are several pending audit observations relating to Government policies and
procedures, which remain to be resolved.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 17-



In summary, the performance of the Borrower at most stages of the project cycle were
unsatisfactory, as indicated in Annex 6. While DWASA seemed to focus on the completion of the
physical works under the project, there was only sporadic support from the concemed
Govemrnment ministry to follow up on the implementation of various institutional development and
policy objectives of the project. Given the experience so far, the main problems in project
implementation have been the failure of the borrower to pursue and accomplish the reform
objectives, notwithstanding technical assistance provided under the project. What would be
crucial in the future is the sustained improvement of institutional and financial performances of
DWASA, including the efficient operation and maintenance of the Saidabad Water Treatment
constructed under the project. In doing so, the commitment of the borrower, specifically the Local
Government Division, will be pivotal in ensuring the sustainability of the investments under the
project as well as creating an effective policy environment for DWASA as it tries to manage the
water and sewerage systems of a mega-city.
8. Lessons Learned
As this project has, by and large, been unsuccessful, it provides a number of opportunities to
consider what lessons can be leamed.
Perhaps most surprising is that, despite the project being the fourth by IDA to attempt helping
DWASA to develop, it was not more clearly identified that the institutional development
component (probably IDA's major interest, as it holds the promise of DWASA becoming
self-sufficient) was most likely to be of least interest to GOB/DWASA. A clearer statement of
this likely area of disagreement could have led to action during project preparation and design
which demonstrated the seriousness of IDA, and the extent of ownership (or lack of ownership)
of GOB/DWASA of the concepts.
Altematively, it can be argued that major policy and institutional changes should be demonstrated
in advance of making large physical investments. In the context of this project, this would imply
first seeking the managerial and other efficiencies in performance, providing assistance as needed;
and then - maybe in a separate project - providing the capacity increases to the city's water supply
system. This approach enables both the borrower and the financier to gauge the likelihood of
change being implemented, and the expectations and project objectives to be scaled accordingly.
Having intensive supervision directed mainly at institutional development objectives would also
demonstrate to the borrower the serious concern with which the objective is viewed by the donor.
As noted above, the project could be designed with time-bound covenants related to institutional
development early on in the project life, so that any lack of intent to implement the component
would be apparent, well before major investment contracts are let out.
In cases like this, where the introduction of the private sector into a utilities' operation was being
attempted for the first time in a country, achieving policy reform through a traditional investment
project required a cautious approach, because so many of the key decisions would be taken
outside DWASA, in higher levels of Government. Consideration of using other instruments, such
as introducing key requirements into a Sector Adjustment Loan, could have helped obtain the
type of major policy change that requires attention from top-level Government officials if they are
- 18 -



to be introduced in a sustainable manner. The policy changes could then have been supported
and implemented by the investment project, which would be the appropriate vehicle for managing
detail, especially at the city service level.
In place of major reform, if this is assessed to be unlikely to occur, analysis should be made of
whether reduced but still acceptable objectives can be achieved with more limited change, by
focusing on one or two critical factors necessary for improvement (and which may also, by its
more limited nature, be more amenable to being managed within the organization without external
involvement). For example, key areas of reform in DWASA might initially focus on
contracting-out metering, billing, collection and disconnection - to increase revenue and reduce
UFW - which might in turn be supported by physical investments in pipeline and distribution
system rehabilitation, and international experience of techniques for contracting out activities.
Based upon the results of a much smaller project, a decision could be made with more confidence
about whether or not to prepare a project for large infrastructure development.
Once the project is agreed, it is essential that supervision (by both the borrower and the lender)
ensures that agreements are strictly honored, or the project stopped and, if needed, cancelled early
on during project implementation, rather than letting problems linger on, meanwhile allowing
major contracts to be let - risking eventually both the quality of the borrower/lender relationship,
and the sustainability of any infrastructure eventually built. Interestingly, a comment by DWASA
below (item iv) stresses the importance of high-level monitoring of progress by its own Ministry,
to highlight areas where delays start to occur.
DWASA raises the following additional lessons from its perspective: (i) the importance of staff
continuity in the implementation agency, its project management, and the supervisory Ministry;
(ii) the need for additional (refresher) training in Bank procedures prior to project implementation
- especially related to procurement, disbursement and financial management; (iii) avoiding
re-evaluation of tenders by multiple tiers of Government, perhaps by forming joint tender boards
with appropriate representation from the different agencies concerned; (iv) the need for high-level,
continuous, monitoring of progress; (v) timely provision of counterpart funds, even through times
of credit suspension, to avoid interrupting payments to suppliers; (vi) streamlined procedures are
required to pay contractors quickly after the Engineer certifies that payment is due (especially
where multiple donors are involved); (vii) high-level coordination is needed to resolve
inter-ministerial problems; (viii) planning, design and implementation by the same lead consultant
minimized conflict between different sections / phases of the project; and (ix) appreciation should
be given, when due, to hard work done by Project Implementation staff to ensure they do not
become de-motivated.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/mplenmenting agency:
The following are summaries of the comments received from Government of Bangladesh and
Dhaka WASA, which have been prepared by the World Bank. The summarized submissions of
the borrower/implementing agency are shown in Annex 8. The complete comments are available
- 19 -



from the South Asia Energy and Infrastructure Division of the World Bank.
Government of Bangladesh's Comments
The Government's comments stress the successful achievement of many of the project's physical
components, especially the new WTP and its ancillary works. The various reforms are also listed,
mostly in terms of the number of reforms recommended and their current status, whether
undertaken, being reviewed, or considered inappropriate. Reference is made to contracting out of
billing and collection in two DWASA revenue zones. Emphasis is also given to the efforts made
by Government and by DWASA to irnplement the project as agreed, and in particular to the
largely successful effort made to maintain project momentum during the period of Credit
suspension. The difficulty of fulfilling covenants simultaneously with major physical works is
highlighted, and the suggestion is made that fulfillment of covenants should be a prior
responsibility ahead of physical implementation. Also "multi-dimensional" project objectives
should be avoided, and recognition given to the non-ideal conditions prevailing for, and the extent
of jurisdiction of, agencies such as DWASA.
The impact of the two year delay in Credit effectiveness, requirements for revisions of
procurement plans, consideration of project restructuring, Credit suspension, and the like
combined such that a number of specific items eventually were dropped from the project.
Nevertheless, several important activities have been undertaken despite this, using GOB/DWASA
funds.
Lessons from the project include: PIUJ members must be trained in World Bank guidelines and
procedures well ahead of project implementation; and contracts for building a particular asset,
such as the WTP, should not be split between a civil works contractor and a electrical/mechanical
contractor simply on the basis of funding source, due to the coordination problems created by so
doing.
Operation and maintenance arrangements made for the WTP include the appointment of 40 staff,
including several managers, and consideration is being given to retaining the WTP engineering
contractor for five years to train DWASA's staff; the Departnent of Fisheries has been requested
to protect the raw water in the transmnission canal by halting fish farming; and the issue of
environmental quality of raw water at the intake point is being monitored through an
inter-ministerial committee which has the tasks of identifying sources of pollution, determining
remedial measures, and preparing integrated work plans to resolve problems.
Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority's Comments
In addition to reiterating the project's objectives and components, DWASA's comments contend
that the project has achieved its major physical and non-physical objectives to a large extent. In
addition to listing the studies, recommendations and reforms under the project, DWASA stresses
that efforts to achieve key improvements are continuing, even after project closure, and successful
innovations such as the contracting out of two revenue zones are being replicated. It is argued
that the new management structure, consisting of a Managing Director and three Deputy
-20 -



Managing Directors has made the utility more efficient (though after the project closed these
posts were filled by senior DWASA staff or Government staff on secondment, rather than staff
recruited from the market as originally intended). Similar points to those mentioned above are
made concerning the operation of the WTP, the possible involvement of the contractor in this
process, and the steps taken to protect the environmental quality of the raw water source, both at
the intake point and during its transmission.
The lessons learned are also similar, but include in addition that a multidisciplinary PIU should be
created for project implementation, there should be continuity of key staff, the project director
should have authority over those implementing components for those components, that multiple
re-reviews of a tender evaluation by different levels of Government should be avoided, perhaps by
forming a tender evaluation board with appropriate representation; and that high level Ministenal
monitoring helped maintain the pace of implementation.
Three concerns are mentioned regarding cash flow: first, the cessation of ADP during the period
of Credit suspension added to the delay in paying contractors; second, it took several weeks to
pay contractors after the 'Engineer' had authorized payment, due to the number of hands it had to
pass through; and third, confirmation of the point above to avoid splitting construction works into
contracts simply on the grounds of source of finance, due to the resulting coordination problems
caused. A final interesting observation is that planning, design and implementation using the same
consulting firm ensured a consistent engineering approach was followed, and minimized conflict.
(b) Cofinanciers.
Comments of the Government of France, the main cofinancier, are:
"The financing brought by the French government for the above mentioned project (representing
an investment of approximately 25 M$) is the most important in value for a "one project only"
investment in Bangladesh since its independence over thirty years ago.
Generally speaking, this Mission shares the World Bank's conclusions and viewpoints, as stated in
the ICR (IDA - 29260). However, this Mission wishes to maintain a constructive approach with
regard to this water treatment station's immediate future.
It can be said that there are no exemplary projects in Bangladesh; only those coming to
completion become exemplary. Taking this fact into account, the completion of the station in
acceptable conditions allows us to bear a positive judgement on this whole operation.
What must be avoided at all costs is to let the pumping and treatment station "go to rust". If it is
true that particular efforts must be made in terms of institutional reforms and water distribution
systems, every attempt must also be made to ensure that the station lives on. Consequently, the
French government would be prepared in principle to finance the station's operation and
maintenance for the next 5 years, on the financial base presently available (buyer's credit).
However, in order to achieve a more viable financing, it appears necessary to implicate the World
Bank as a cofinancier, with the apportionment between the French government and the World
Bank yet to be determined.
- 21 -



Moreover, with regard to the upstream pollution problems (river feeding the water gate); the
situation is not as alarming as stated by the World Bank. Indeed, according to ONDEO
DEGREMONT, the present consumption of reactive agents is less than expected. A very special
attention must be given to ensure that the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Environment are
carried out in order to reduce in the future the polluting effluents caused by the industries
established upstream (relocation envisaged).
Finally, according to the BCEOM Civil Engineer, the open air canal could provide a natural
reduction of the pollution through solar rays, providing the canal is suitably monitored.
In conclusion, even though this Mission considers that the transmission of information has
sometimes lacked in times of momentary credit suppressions, I bear a very positive judgement on
a co financing venture, not obvious at the start, which would involve four players: World Bank,
France, Japan, and the Government of Bangladesh."
(c) Otherpartners (7VGOs/prnvate sector).
N/A
10. Additional Information
None.
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Bangladesh
Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Performance & Monitoring Indicators
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
: .   :. -. .-.--.-,. Performance And-Monitorina Indicators                ..
Year ending June 30              1996            1999            2001           2002
Projected  Actual Projected Actual Projected Actual Projected Actual
nDeratrnal Taroets-                   I__  _    _  _                  _  _ _  _ _ _
Meter Coverage Level                      850/c 73.5%     95%/; 73.4%    95%1 70.3% _         73.0%
Unaccounted for Water                     450/4   450/    36Y/4  470/    30%1    430/_          41%
End-Year Connections                   163,765163,79 199,48 177,98 225,86 196,453            201,238
Operational Indicators
Water Service Covera e Levels            71.5%  62.0%   77.0%   74.0%  80.4%   75.0%__        79.0%
Consumption (litre/capacity/day)            95     107     104    111     106     120            125
Average hours of service /day               1       24      18     2       18      24             24
Production Ca acity                       850/    88%     730/   920     81%     990/c          99%
Efficiency Indicators
Staff Productivity Index (staff/000 conn)   1 8     18     1.      18      1 3     16             15
Personnel / Operating Cost Index         20.40/  15.5%  20.30/  17.8%J 21.7%   13.5%          15.5%
Unit Operating CostUDTW (Tk/m3)            6.9g   6.36    8.21    7.25   9.47    9.5 _         10.25
Unit Operating CostUSWTP (Tk/m3)            8.4   8.1'    9.95    9.29  11.17   12.24 _        13.75
Av  Well Productvit (m/litre/day)           3.c   3.5        4    3.4E      4    3.24            3.15
Financial Ratios
Working Raio                               0.7    0.84     0.c     0.7    0.7    0.73
Operabng Raho                              0.c    1.0      0.4    1.04    0.     1.04
Receivables / Monthly Billing                4   10.58       3    8.33      3    9.85
Contribubon to Investment                15.80/  12.3%  65.0%   18.9%   87.3%    3.1%         __
Collection / Revenue Efficiency            96%  79.2%    1000/ 75.8%    100%   93.0/_
Tariff Increase                             0%     00/     00/     5%      0%     0%          ___
Leverage Indicators
Debt Service Coverage                       0.    0.9      0.     2.23     0.    2.59
Debt / Equity Ratio (%)                 23.05% 43.25% 31.790/ 19.36/ 29.91    21.28/k
Current Ratio                               7.1    6.      6.     4.5      4.    5.78
- 23 -



-24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost Summary (Appraisal Estimate)
Si. No.       Project Cost By Component       App_!sal Estimate (US$ Million)     =_=
Local      Foreign      Total    % Foreign    % Total
LF Ign        Exchange    Base Cost
A      (i) Land Acquisition                   22.8                   22.8          -         15%
0ii) Resettlement, fencing, etc.  =  _===                  X ___
B      Treatment Plant & Associated
Works                                                  _ __          __
I.Intake Sarulia                       1.3         1 7         3.0        57%          2%
2.Canal Rehabilitation & Site          2.6                     2.6          -          2%
3.Culvert from DND Canal to Site       2.9                     3.0          -          2%
14.Treatment Plant                     28.6        42.6        72 2        59%         46%
5 Ancillary Structure                  1.8         0.1         2.0         5%          1%
Subtotal Treatment Plant & Associated Works        37.2        44.4        82.8       54%         53%
C      New Pipelines
I . Pnrmary Transmission Mains         7.4        10.1        17.5        58%         11%
2. Secondary Transmission Mains        1.7         2.9         4.6        63%          3%
Subtotal New Pipelines                             9.1         13.0        22.1       59%          14%
D      Distnbution System Rehabilitation      3.1         5.4         8.5         64%         5%
E      Expansion of Service Connections       0.9         1.4         2 3         61%         1%
F      Development of Sewerage/ Sanitation    1.6         2.4         4.1         59%         18%
G      Institutional Development              2.7         4.3         7.0         61%         4%
H      Project Preparation and                0.5         6.0         6.5         92%         4%
Implementation Support
I      Electric connection, office fwrniture,  -           -           -           -           -
computer, vehicle, generator, project
personnel salary, etc.
Total Baseline Cost                                77.9        76.9       156.1        49%        100%
Physical Contingencies                             3.3         4.6         7.8         59%         5%
Pnce Contingencies                                  5.5         6.5        12.0        54%         8%
Total project Cost                                 86.7        88.0       175.8        50%        113%
- 25 -



Project Cost Summary (Actual)
Actual / Latest Estimate
SL No.       Project Cost By Component                US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total    %Foreign % Of Total
____________________________                      ~Exchange    Base Cost
A      (i) Land Acquisltion                22.80       0.00       22.80                  18%
_(ii) Resettlement, fencing, etc.    0.24         -         0.24         -         0%
B      Treatmnent Plant & Associated
I.Intake Sarulia                     3.17       2.03       5.20        39%         4%
2.Canal Rehabilitation & Site        2.12         -         2.12                   2%
3.Culvert from DND Canal to Site     1.00       1.84        2.84       65%         2%
4.Treatment Plant                    10.99      38.90      49.89       78%        39%
_5. Ancillary Structure               1.80       0 10       2.00        5%          2%
Subtotal Treatment Plant & Associated Works     19.14      42.77       61.91      690ho       49%/
C      New PipeUnes                            _  _    _
I i  Pnmary Transmission Mams        8.16       11.34      19.50       58%        15%
_ 2. Secondary Transmission Mains      -           .          -
Subtotal New PIpelHnes                          8.16       11.34       19.50      58%         15%
D      Distribution System Rehabilitation   1.13                    19         -          I% 
E      Expansion of Service Connections     0.09         -        0.09         -
F      Development of Sewerage/ Sanitation  0.40       0.73        1.13       65%         1% 
G      Institutional Development            2.63       3.32        5.95       56%         5%
H      Project Preparation and              3.73       6.44       10.17       63%         8%
I    ]Electric connection, office furmture,  4.48                 4 48         -         4%
Total Baseline Cost                             62.80      64.60      127.40       51%        100%
Physical Contingencies                            -          .                -                 -
Price Contingencies                               -          -           -          -           -
Total Project Cost                              62.80      64.60      127.40       51%        100%
Project Cost By Procurement Arrangements
Project (As Per Staff Appraisal Report)
(US$ million equivalent)
- 26 -



Projected (As per SAR report)
Procurement Method
Project          ICB            NCB           Other          NBF 2/         Total 3
Element
68. 2           7.8            3.0                           79.0
Civil Works       (56.7)          (7.5)            -              -            (64.2)
Goods and          3.1            0.2                           53.7           57.1
Equipment         (1.9)          (0.2)            -               -            (2.1)
Consultancy         _                            14.0            1.3            15.3
Services                                      (14.0)            -            (14.0)
Land                                                         24.5            24.5
Acquisition
Total           71.3            8.0           17.0           79.5           175.8
(58.6)          (7.7)          (14.0)           -            (80.3)
Project Cost By Procurement Arrangements
Latest/Actual Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Actual (from DWASA)
Procurement Method
Project Element       ICB            NCB            Other          NBF /      |   Total3 /
Civil Works           44.58           2.21             -              -             46 79
(44.58)         (0.09)           -               -           (44.67)
Goods and             34.71           0.53             -              -             35 24
Equipment                            (0.51)            -              -            (0.51)
Consultancy                                          17.85            -             17.85
Services                                            (17.85)           -            (17.85)
(i) Land                                                             22 8           22.8
Acquisition                                                           -
(ii) Resettlement,                                                   0.24           0.24
Fencing, etc.
Electric
connection,
furniture,
computer,                                                            4.48           4.48
vehicle,                                                              -
generator,
project personnel
salary
Total            79.29           2.74          17.85           27.52          127.40
(44.58)         (0.60)         (17.85)                       (63.03)
I)  IDA Amounts In Brackets
2) Non Bank Financed - Co-financiers and Government of Bangladesh
3)  Figures may not add up due to rounding.
- 27 -



Project Financing by Components
Estimated
Projected (As per SAR report)
Dhaka WASA           IDA        Govt. Of France   Govt. of Japan      Total
Local   Duties
Amount     %    Amount     %     Amount     %     Amount     %    Amount     %     For Ex   (Excl    and
Taxes    Taxes
1. Investment Cost
A Land                      24.5     100     0        -       0                0              24 5     13.9     0      24 5      0
Al Resettlement, housmg,
etc
BCivil Works                14.8    187     64.2     813      0                0               79     449     401      22.1     11 8
C. Electrical &  Mechanical  23.1   41.8     09      1.6     31 3     56 6      0             35 3    31 5    32 2      0      23 2
D Technmcal Assistance       0       -       14     91 5      0        -       1.3     8 5    15 3     8 7     8 3     5 6       0
E Equipment                 0 5     29 4     12      70 6     0        -        0       -      17       1      7 5      0       0 5
F Electric connection,
firniture, computer, vehicle,
generator, project personnel
salary, etc
Total Disbursement          62.2    35.8    80.3     45.7    31.3     17.8     1.3     0.7    175.8    100     88.1    32.2     35.5
Project Financing by Components
Actual
- 28-



The Govt. /      [DA       Govt Of France  Govt. of Japan    Total
For   Local   Duties
Amt.    %              %     Amt.     %     Amt     %     Amn      %     Ex.   (Ead.    and
Ex.   Taxes   Taxes
1. Investment Cost
A. Land               22.8    100                                                22.8    18           22 8
Al Resettlement,      0.24    100                                                0.24   0.18          0 24
housing, etc                I
B Civil Works         11.15  23 82  35 64   76 18                               46 79  36 93  35 64   2 56    8 59
C Electrical &         6 3   19.59    -       -    27 91  80 41     -      -    34 71  27 39  27 91   1.58    5.22
MechanicalII                                                                                                       I
D.Technical Assistance  2 7  15 74  14 41   84 2                   0 7   0 06   17 85   13 53  15.15  0.22    2 48
E Equipment           0 02   3 77    0.51  96.23                   -       -     0 53   0 42   0.51   0 02
F Electric connection,
furniture, computer,
vehicle, generator,   4.48    100             -                                  4.48   3 54    -     4 1     0 38
project personnel salary,
etc
Total Disbursement  48.19   38.03  50.59  39.93   27.91  26.03   0.7    0.008  127.4   100   79.21  31.52   16.67
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
During appraisal, the economic analysis of the project had been undertaken by considering the
marginal costs of deep tube wells (DTWs) and the Saidabad water treatment plant (SWTP) to
obtain the economic least cost solution for the proposed investment program. The methodology
used, the underlying assumptions, the long-run marginal costs and the least cost solutions, and the
costs and benefits of the project were presented in Annex 13.1 of the Staff Appraisal report
(SAR) based on the feasibility study and some information collected by IDA missions.
Given that no recent demand and willingness-to-pay information was available or collected for the
ICR, no new cost-benefits analysis has been undertaken for the ICR. Assuming that the SAR
demand curve estimated by consumers' willingness to pay still holds, there would be no change in
the demand function for water Q=a + bP (SAR Annex 13.1 Table 3) and benefits would be the
sum of "value of net capacity" and consumer's surplus; as such, economic returns would vary
with the change in project costs. This demand curve was estimated by the willingness to pay of
the consumers, as revealed by the maximum amount of that consumers are willing to pay for
water which was found to be nearly Tk 27 per m3.
As the project included the construction of the Saidabad water treatment plant and the loss
reduction activities, the economic analyses during project appraisal focused on these components
which would jointly contribute to an increase in safe water supply in Dhaka (SAR Annex 13.1).
The SAR analyzed the comparative costs of water supplied by the DTWs and the SWTP, based
on figures from the BCEOM study and/or provided by DWASA for the construction and
operation of DTWs and the SWTP. The probable decline in production given existing conditions
of water levels was also considered, assuming that as the water table declined, the costs of
production would increase.
The benefits of the project stem from both the increased capacity and the loss reduction activities,
and the 'reasonable' strategy was to construct the SWTP and meet remaining deficits with a
'cautious' DTW expansion program. However, since project appraisal, especially in the wake of
the 1998 floods, DWASA did expand its production capacity by rehabilitating and installing more
DTWs than was anticipated at appraisal.
The SAR's estimated rate of return of the project was 22% with net benefits amounting to more
than 60% of the project costs. It was estimated that if only 60% of the estimated benefits were
obtained, the project would remain economically feasible; also, even if project costs increased by
60% the project would still be economically feasible at a 10% discount rate.
In that context, since project appraisal, DWASA embarked not only on the construction (and
eventual commissioning in July 2002) of the water treatment plant but has also expanded its
production capacity by installing more deep tube wells (DTWs) than had been projected. As such,
the total marginal cost for such DTW production had decreased from the SAR estimate of Tk
7.11 to Tk 6.54 per m3 (Tk 5.24 for investment costs and Tk. 1.30 for O&M costs).
On the other hand, given the actual costs figures available from DWASA, the total marginal cost
of the Saidabad plant has now been estimated to be Tk 8.81 per m3 (including Tk 5.99 for
- 30 -



investment costs and Tk 2.81 for O&M costs). The corresponding figures in the SAR were Tk
9.99 (and Tk 7.65 for investment costs and Tk 2.34 for O&M costs). This possibly reflects the
actual costs of construction of the water treatment plant being actually lower than estimated.
With these revised project costs and the changes in the total marginal costs from increased
production, the net present values for both DTWs and the Saidabad Water Treatment Plant have
changed. (Table 1 updates Table 1 of SAR Annex 13. 1 with actual costs figures as available.)
With the increase in water supply capacity from the SWTP and the construction and rehabilitation
of primary and secondary networks under the project, coupled with the ongoing system
rehabilitation program, the economic returns may be deemed to be above the acceptable rate for
such projects.
In the SAR Economic Analysis (Annex 13.1), Table 4 and Table 5 provide the revised economic
costs and benefits from water supply expansion program and the loss reduction activities; these
tables have been revised with current figures on costs available from DWASA but with the
assumption that consumer's surplus remains the same. As Table [4] indicates, addition of net
capacity have led to increases in gross benefits with lower costs and the present values of net
benefits have risen while the internal rate of return (IRR) has also increased to 36.97% from
22.26% in the SAR. Similarly, the IRR from loss reduction activities has also risen to 40% from
29.28% during appraisal (Table 5).
It is expected that the economic value of this additional water supply is considerable because it
would reduce costs and allow for an increase in consumption by low-income groups in Dhaka.
- 31 -



Dhaka Water   pply Comparative costs of DTWs and the Saidabad I SWTP
|_______                  Actuals Used
|________  _Saidabad SWrP (1)
Production                                       Produc-
(million m3)                                       tion
Year                                                                                 (Million
Costs (Tk milli              m)          c   tf   millilon)
Actual                                     Investment           08M                Invest-ment     08M
ending June   Production   Production  Incfease net  Dired     Other Total    Total for
30            (Million m')  (Million m') canaclty   Invest.    Cost  Cost     DWASA
'1995-96)                                                                    1
2       283.61        23.37          8 04    38 66           38 66      0.00
3       295 65        35.41        20.08     28 22           28.22      0.00                 1163 06
4        299.67        39 43        24 10    16.92  151 43   168 35      0 00                 419 25
5        345 66       85 42         45 99   194.23  156.34  350 57      0 00                  396.12
6        395.28       135.04        4962    134 13           134.13      0.00                 854 19
7       423 75        163 51        28.47   144 50            1445      0.00                 1578.11
2002                43922        178.98        15.47    6545             65.45      0.00                1129.41
9       439.22        178.98         0 00    39.48           39.48       0 00    82.125       296 57       194 00
10       439.22        178.98        0 00     39.48           39.48      0.00     82.125                    194 00
11       439.22        178.98        0 00     21 94           21.94      0.00     82.125                    194 00
12       450 71        178.98        0.00     21 94           21 94      0.00     82.125                    194 00
13        462 2        178.98        0 00      877             8.77      0 00     82.125                    194 00
14       468 58        178 98        0.00                                0.00     82125                     239 00
_      15      474 96       178.98         0 00                                0.00     82 125                    239 00
2010                477.46       178 98         0 00                                0 00    82 125                    239 00
17       477 46        178 98         0.00                                0 00    82.125                    239 00
18       477 46        178 98         0 00                                0.00    82.125                    239 00
19       477 46        178.98        0.00                                 a 00    82.125                    272 60
20        477.46       178 98         0 00                                0 0_    82 1251                   272.60
2015               477 46        178 98         0.00                                0.0t    82.125                    272 60
22       477.46        178.98         0 00                                0.U0    82 212                    272.60
23       4T7.46        178 98         0 00 _0.01                                  82125         0           272 60
24       477 46        178 98         0 00                                0  16   82.125l                   300 80
25       477 46        178 98         0 00                                0.0(    82 125                    300 81.
i020                477 46       178.96         0 00                                0 0l     82.12p                   300 8p
27        477.46       178.98         0.00                                0 0n    82.12n                    300 8e
29       477.46        178.98         0 00                                0.007   82 125                    319 30
301      477.46        178 981        0 00                                0 01.   82.125                    319 30
2025               4774          178.981        0 00                                0.01    82.125                    319 30
Present Values    3,170 86      996 77        119 14   _        _       624.36      0.01    633 81      3,799 28     1,782 11
Margi Ia cost Tk/rn3                                                      5.24      0.01                   5 99         2 81
Iotal marmnal cost Tk/m3                                 5 24i            5.24                             8 81
rotal marginal cost U-S Slm3  i                        0 1310           01311R                           0 2201
Note:
In the year 2015 populabon will be 18.86 million and demand for water will be 3016.99 m considenng 160 litre per capita per day.
After 2007 nvo further production from TW in envisaged
Here:
1)Direct cost includes 'all costs for the settng up of a new DTW
2) Other cost: includes the cost which ensures 'uninterrupted service for the installabon of a DTW.
3) Direct Investment and O&M Costs - found from each oyf the future program that WASA plans to implement in near future
Year                      Actual
1996                       216
1997                       222
1998                       237
1999                       277
2000                       307
2001                       335
2002                       357
2003
2004
2005
- 32 -



Table 3 - Dhaka, Description of the estimated demand function for water (Q=a+bp)
Ouatt  Intercept, Slope  Price P Consumption Elastcity  Required Rs Capacity
m3/yr.    (a)      (b)    Tklm3      (Ipd)     (t Supply m3/s Cpm3is
59.45     595   19.8351     27       30.00    9.01       1.89!     2.53
79.29     595.  19.8351     261      40.01    6.501      2.51      3.37
99.13     595,  19.8351     25       50.01    5.00,      3.14      4.21
118.96     595   19.835t     24       60.02    4.00;      3.77i     5.05
138.80.    595:  19.8351     23       70.031   3.291      4.40Q     5.90
158.63,    595   19.835      22       80.041   2.75       5.031     6.74
178.47     595,  19.8351     21       90.65!   2.33'      5.66'     7.58
198.30i    595   19.835|     20      100.05    2.00i      6.291     8.43
218.14'    595,   19.8358     19     110.06;    1.73,     6.92!     9.27
237.97     595    19.8351     18     120.07     1.50,     7.55     10.11
257.81'    595'   19.835'     17     130.08i    1.31'     8.17.    10.95
277.64     5951   19.8351     16     140.08'    1.14,     8.80     11.80
297.48     595    19.835|     15,    150.09,    1.00,     9.43!    12.64
317.31:    595;  19.835       14     160 10'   0.88      10.061'   13.48
337.15!    595   i9.835      13     1O.11,    0.761     10.69'    14.33
356.98     595,  19.835       12     180.12'   0.67j     11.32     15.17
376.82:    595;  19.835       1 1    190.12 '   0.581    11.951!   16.01
396.65'    595:  19.835       10     200.13    0.50'     12.58?    16.85
416.49.    5951  19.835       9      210.14.    0.434    13.21;    17.70
436.32'    595    19.835      8      220.15:    0.36     13.841    18.54
456.16     595:  19.835       7      230.15'    0.30     14.46;    19.38
475.99i    595    19.835      6      240.16     0.25,    15.09     20.23
495.83'    595'   19.835      5      250.17     0.20     15.72Z    21.07
515.66     595   19.835       4      260.18'    0.15;    i6.351    21.91
525.78     595'   19.835    3.49     265.28'    0.13,    16.67i    22.34
535.50-    595:  19.835       3      270.19     0.11,    16.98,    22.75
555.33     595   19.835       2      280.19     0.07     17.61     23.60
575.17,    595'  19.835        1     29202     0.03;     18.241    244
595.00     5951  19.835       0      300.21     0.00     18.871    25.28
** Aprox. Current consumption; Equilibrium Level (Price = Marginal Cost)
- 33 -



Table 4 - Dhaka, Economic Costs and Benefits of the Water Supply Expansion Program
Saidabad       Increased       Value of Consumers  Gross    Costs      Net
Year capacity Losses   net    Pnce    net    surpluse  Benefits M  MoTs   Benefits
M(%)      capacity ITkIm3 capacity MTk          k     MTk       M   k
M m3           M MTk      _         _      _    _  _
19961       0  0.45'    0.00  0.00     0.00 o    0.00"    0.00     0.00        0.00
1997:       0  0.45     2.21  18.58   40.99      0.43    41.42  1,163.06   -1,121.64
1998!       0  0.43     2.94 18.451   54.29,     1.91    56.20 j 419.25     -363.05
1999i       0  0.47    11.38 18.85   214.51      4.30    218.81  396.12     -177.31
20001       0  0.47'   20.4i 1 18.75  383.81   140.63    524.44   854.19    -329.75
20011  82.125  0.43   107.82 1 18.38  1,981.64  160.83  2,142.47' 1,578.11   564.36
20021  82.125  0.42   110.65 18.24 2,018.16    205.30  2,223.46  1,129.41   1,094.05
2003!  82.125  0.40   110.65 17.98  1,989.40 i  255.19  2,244.59  296.57   1,948.02
2004.  82.125  0.38   110.65 17.80 1,969.48'   310.50 i 2,279.98  300.00   1 979.98
2005   82.125  0.36   110.65 17.45  1,930.76i  371.24  2,302.00   300.00   2,302.00
2006   82.125  0.36"  112.76 17.26  1,946.15;  408.95  2,355.10 1 300.00   2,355.10
2007!  82.125  0.35   114.87 17.19  1,974.53   408.95  2,383.48   300.00   2,383.48
2008,  82.1251  0.35  116.04 17.19  1,994.64   408.95  2,403.59   300.00   2,403.59
2009   82.1251  0.35  117.21  17.19 2,014.75   408.95  2,423.70   300.00 i  2,423.70
20101  82.125  0.35   117.67; 17.19 2,022.66   408.95  2,431.61 i 300.00   2,431.61
2011    i 82.125  0.35  117.13 17.19 2,013.38'  408.95  2,422.33 1 300.00  2,422.33
2012:  82.125  0.35   116.13 17.19  1,996.19   408.95  2,405.14   300.00   2,405.14
2012,  82.125  0.35   117.67 17.19 2,022.66    408.95  2,431.61   300.00   2,431.61
to
2032i  82.125  0.35   117.67  17.19 2,022.66  408.95  2,431.61   300.00   2,431.61
Present values(@012% discount rate) Million Tk M       12,627.06  4,892.41  7,773.76
Present values(@12% discount rate) Million US$            315.68   122.31     194.34
,________                      ntemal Rate of Retumn          36.97% /
M   million   |                    I                  I          _        _  _il
-34-



Table 5 - Dhaka, Economic Costs and Benefits of Loss Reduction Activities
Saidabad        Inrae               au   fConsumees     Gross              Net
Year | capacity Losses(   net     Price     net    surplus M  Benefts M  Costs M  BeNeft
Yea  cpait    %)   capacity  TkIm3    capacity  suplsk    BnfTs M    T      BenefTs
MM3        ~~~M m3             M Tk      Tkk                 Tk      MT
1996       0     0.4500       0        0        0          0         0        0     0.00
1997       0     0.4498     2.21    11.09    24.47         0     24.47    53.13    -28.66
1998       0     0.4303     2.94    11.03    32.46      15.27    47.73    47.45     0.27
1999       0     0.4712    11.37    10.96   124.61       31.1   155.71   232.50    -76.79
2000       0     0.4652    20.46    10.89   222.83      47.52   270.35   465.29   -194.94
2001       0     0.4286    25.68    10.82   277.85       64.5   342.35   298.72    43.63
2002       0     0.4174    28.51    10.74   306.24      100.2   406.44   364.94    41.49
2003       0     0.3994    28.51    10.65   303.67     138.19   441.86   285.89    155.97
2004       0     0.3814    28.51    10.56   301.10     178.47   479.57   259.92    219.65
2005       0     0.3634    28.51    10.35   295.12     221.05   516.17   259.92   256.24
2006       0     0.3550    30.62    10.24   313.54     265.92   579.46   253.46    326.00
2007       0     0.3500    32.72    10.12   331.17     265.92   597.09   264.13    332.97
2008       0     0.3500    33.89    10.12   343.00     265.92   608.92    257.16   351.76
2009       0     0.3500    35.06    10.12   354.83     265.92   620.75   263.31    357.44
2010       0     0.3500    35.52    10.12   359.47     265.92   625.39    266.38   359.01
2011       0     0.3500    35.52    10.12   359.47     265.92   625.39    267.53   357.86
2012       0     0.3500    35.52    10.12   359.47     265.92   625.39    268.74   356.65
a
2032       0     0.3500    35.52    10.12   359.47     265.92   625.39    274.21   351.18
Present values(@12% discount rate) Million Tk M                 3,085.42  1,992.94  1,092.48
Present values(@12% discount rate) Million US$                    77.14    49.82    27.31
IRR             40%
M = million
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty      Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count        Specialty                  Progress   Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/1994
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/1994                      FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); PROCUREMENT
ANALYST (1); SANITARY
ENGINEER (I); PSD
SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); PROGRAM OFFICER
(I); RESETTLEMENT
SPECIALIST (I);
ANTHROPOLOGIST (1),
ENVIRONMENTAL
ECONOMIST (1);
OPERATIONS OFICER (1)
Supervision
03/06/1997               7   PROCUREMENT                   S           S
ANALYST (1); SANITARY
ENGINEER (1); PSD
SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); PROGRAM OFFICER
(1), ENVIRONMENTAL
ENGINEER (I);
ENVIRONMENTAL
ECONOMIST (1)
10/06/1997               5   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);        S           S
PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
ENVIRONMENTAL
ENGINEER (1); URBAN ENV.
SPECIALIST (1);
ENVIRONMENTAL
ECONOMIC (1)
03/13/1998               7   SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST         U           U
(1), ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST (2);
ENVIRONMENTAL
ECONOMIST (1); PRIVATE
SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
06/13/1999               6   FINANCIAL ANALYST (2);        U           U
URBAN ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
-36-



ENVIRONMENTAL ECON. (1);
ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
02/02/2000               9   TEAM LEADER (1);              U            S
TECHNICAL ASPECTS (1);
INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
(1); FINANCIAL ASPECTS (Q);
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
(1); ADVISOR (1);
PROCUREMENT (1);
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
(1); DISBURSEMENT (1)
07/21/2000                7  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);        U            U
URBAN ENVIRONMENT (1);
TEAM LEADER (1); URBAN
SPECIALIST (1); WATER &
SANITATION SPEC. (1);
PROCUREMENT (1);
FINACIAL MANAGEMENT (1)
10/31/2001               5   URBAN SPECLALIST (1); WSS     U            U
SPECIALIST (1);
DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
(1), FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); PROCUREMENT
ANALYST (1)
ICR
10/2002                  5   TEAM LEADER (1);
ECONOMIST (1);
ENGINEER (1);
ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle              Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks          US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation         169 2                    315.6
Appraisal/Negotiation              115.4                    286.7
Supervision                        249.8                    374 0
ICR                                 18.9                     53.6
Total                              553.3                  1,029.9
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
E Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Eli Physical                           O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Il Financial                           O H  OSUOM      O N O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  O SUO M    0 N 0 NA
L Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
Social
El PovertyReduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
OII Gender                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Oi Public sector management            0 H  O SU * M   0 N  0 NA
D Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
OI Lending                                          OHS OS       *U    OHU
Oi Supervision                                      OHS OS       * U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   Oi HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS      * U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Borrower's comments (full text)
Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of Bangladesh and the
International Development Association, January 8, 1997
Staff Appraisal Report "Bangladesh Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project November 22, 1996"
Report No. 16144-BD
DWASA, "Management & Operational Support (Twining) Progranmme", Executive Summary,
Thames Water International, Halcrow & Partners, et al., August 2000.
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Co-operatives, "DWASA Fourth Dhaka
Water Supply Project - Saidabad Water Treatment Plant: Project Completion Report" (Joint
Venture), June 2002.
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Co-operatives, "Consultancy Services for
Construction Supervision of Supply and Installation of Electro-Magnetical Equipment and Civil
Works of Saidabad Surface Water Treatment Plant Project (Under DWASA IV Project)",
BCEOM, July 2002
World Bank Project Status Reports
-40 -



Additional Annex 8. Evaluation Report Summary Prepared by the Borrower
The Borrower prepared this summary of its complete comments, which are available from the
World Bank South Asia Energy & Infrastructure unit in Washington, DC.
Borrower's Evaluation Report
(IDA CREDIT NO. 2926 B.D.)
1. Introduction:
The 4th Dhaka Water Supply Project was established in 1996 by IDA. This project has been
co-financed by the Government of France , Govemment of Japan and the Government of
Bangladesh. The Japanese Government financing was 1.30 million US dollar, used directly by the
World Bank for the technical assistance for Water Resources Management Study (WRMS). It
was a grant money. The French Govt. financing was 173.95 million French Frank (FF) equivalent
to 31.30 million US dollar, out of which 153.70 FF was grant money & 20.25 million FF was soft
loan to Bangladesh.
The total amount of IDA Credit for funding under 4th Dhaka Water Supply Project was originally
SDR 51.00 million (US dollar 80.30 equivalent). Finally the credit amount stands to 35.68 million
SDR. Credit closing as per Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was initially December 31,
2002. However the credit was closed earlier, that is, on 30 June 2002.
2. Project objectives:
By financing core investment for the water supply and sanitation sector the project would seek to
ensure that the Government can address the essential elements of its development strategy. The
objectives of this strategy are;
a)    To increase potable water supply in the Dhaka city area by effectively utilizing available
surface and ground water resources.
b)    to increase the life of existing assets and reduce water losses through water loss reduction
and rehabilitation program.
c)    to commence a program of institutional reforms that would lead to efficient operation of
the water and sanitation sector in Dhaka on a commercial basis and prepare a strategy to enhance
private operations and mobilize private finance.
d)    strengthen water resources management for the greater Dhaka area, by optimizing use of
available water resources in the most economic and environmentally acceptable way.
3.    Design, Implementation & Operation experiences of the project:
Physical Components:
Intake, Raw water pumping station and twin culvert between Sitalakhya river and DND canal.
Intake structure, Pumping station & Twin culvert between the DND Canal & Sitalakhya river
including pumps & Electro-mechanical equipment for the Raw water pumping station was fully
implemented. The Electro-mechanical equipment installed under this contract can deliver 6.6
-41 -



m3/Sec water excluding the water provided for irrigation purpose. Civil structure of the pump
house can accommodate additional pumps in future to raise the capacity of pump station up to
14.50 m3/sec.
DND Canal rehabilitation & Site development.
4.5 km of DND Canal starting from the Karim Jute Mills up to Mirdhabari was renovated
including construction of isolating embankment & metallic fencing along the two banks of the
canal for environmental protection.The treatment plant site was backfilled to the required level for
the construction of the treatment plant.
Twin culvert between DND Canal & treatment plant site.
Twin culvert with a length of 1.60 km connecting DND Canal and the treatment plant site have
been constructed. This twin culvert is capable to carry 11 m3/sec. of raw water from DND Canal
to the treatment plant.
Supply & installation and of Electro-Mechanical equipment of the treatment plant.
The Electro-Mechanical equipment necessary for the treatment plant have been supplied and
installed on time. This supply constituted equipment for Raw water pump station, raw water
dividing chamber, chemical dosing, Clarifier, Filter battery, filter backwash recovery tank, clear
water pump station, treatment plant laboratory and workshop.
Civil Structures of the treatment plant.
All the Civil Engineering Structures of the treatment plant have been completed & commissioned
on time. The Civil Engineering structures are: Raw water pump station, Raw water dividing
chamber, clarifiers, filters, flow meter chamber, treated water storage tank. Treated water pump
station i/c. Electrical building, wash water recovery tank, chemical & chlorination building, pipe
works, sludge tank, dyke, sludge lagoon & sludge drying bed. These structures are capable of
treating 225 MLD of water,
Ancillary structures of treatment plant.
The ancillary structures have been constructed. This component includes 3 storied administrative
building, Workshop building, 2, 3 storied Residential buildings, boundary wall, fencing, internal
roads and utility services for the treatment plant complex.
Primary Transmission & Part of Secondary network.
36.40 km of primary transmission & part of secondary water system network has already been
completed and put into operation. It consist of 0.715 km of 1800 mm, 6.748 km of 1400 mm,
2.912 km of 1200 mm, 6.948 km of 1000 mm, 4.874 km of 600 mm, 12.737 km of 400 mm &
1.462 km of 300 mm dia ductile cast iron( DCI) pipe.
Institutional Strenethenine.
Leak detection & System Rehabilitation:
As a part of the leak detection program, Immediate Action Program (Training) was completed.
Subsequently based on the recommendation of the leak detection program and those of the
Twining program consultants, System rehabilitation program is continuing utilizing GOB sources.
-42 -



A length of around 50 km water line have already been rehabilitated.
Crash Metering Installation Program:
Under the project 35,000 meters have already been procured and installed by year 2000.
Procurement of meters have continued from WASA's own resources and in the Fy 2001-2002,
8000 meters have already been procured and installed, work order for the supply of another 4000
meters have been awarded and procurement of further 12000 meters are being processed. Meter
procurement and installation is a continuos process and necessary meters will be procured every
year.
Study on Improved Sanitation:
The study on the improved sanitation has already completed and DWASA is implementing the
recommendations of the study from GOB funding. In addition steps have been taken to bring the
hitherto unserviced area under piped sewerage system. The Govt. of Japan and the Govt. of China
is expected to provide financial assistance for the new projects.
Institutional development technical assistance.
Water Resources Management study:
Out of the 23 recommendations under Water Resources Management Program (WRMP), 12 have
already been implemented and remaining 10 are in the process of implementation. The only
l(one) that is not considered feasible at this stage i.e. shifting of the raw water intake point from
Sarulia because the intake has already been built.
Management & Operational Support (Twining) Program:
The 19 manuals produced by the Twinning Consultants have, by and large, 122 specific
recommendations. Of these, 74 have been implemented /adopted, 35 are in the process of
implementation, 8 need pre-implementation review and 5 need consultation with JICA. The
process of adoption/implementation shall continue.
Twinning consultants identified 157 water mains rehabilitation jobs with an aggregated length of
201.40 km. Up till now, a length of around 50 km has already been rehabilitated. Under the
ongoing interim Project 4, an additional length of approx. 37 km of distribution mains have been
rehabilitated and work order has been issued for rehabilitation of another 27 Km. On top of this, a
further 7 km of rehabilitation has been taken up under interim Project 3 of which 3 km have been
completed.
Contracting out DWASA Services:
Two revenue zones of DWASA service area have already been contracted out. The results are
encouraging. Rest of the zones will be contracted out gradually.
Training:
The Twinning consultants and the Training Center of DWASA have carried out a number of
workshop/seminar and training programs for the Accounts Department and the Audit Department
-43 -



on accounting codes, chart of accounts, budgeting techniques, financial regulations, extended cash
book, etc. A number of foreign training programs had been identified for the officers of DWASA.
The programs was sent to the Administrative Ministry with a copy to the Bank. Due to credit
suspension & early credit closing this program could not be implemented.
Management Support Contract Staff:
The establishment of new DWASA Board as per WASA Ordinance 1996 has facilitated obtaining
greater Autonomy from GOB. The new management structure consisting of Managing Director &
three Deputy Managing Directors have made the day to day management of DWASA more
efficient which has created a dynamic environment in Dhaka WASA. This has facilitated DWASA
to meet operational and performance targets.Three Deputy Managing Directors were recruited
from the open market who worked till 30th June 2002 i.e. up to the closing date of IDA credit.
At present as an interim arrangement senior officers of DWASA are working in the post of DMD
(RP&D) & DMD (O&M). One Officer has been deputed from the Administrative Ministry to
perform the duties of DMD (F&A).
Strategy Study for Mobilization of Private Finance:
The strategy study to mobilize finance and increase efficiency in DWASA was completed on time.
The implementation of the recommended actions for the sector reform and mobilization of private
financing is under active consideration of the inter-ministerial committee formed by the GoB.
Equipment:
5 computers, 25 Motor cycles & 35,000 meters have been procured under the project.
Project implementation Consultancy service.
Consulting firms engaged for planning, design & supervision of the work have completed their
work in due time
Operational experiences.
The Project, specially the treatment plant was essential for city water supply. As such, for the
materialization of the project DWASA as well as GoB tried hard to fulfill all the conditions,
though the working environment was not favourable at all time. None the less, a considerable
number of institutional development objectives were pursuit and achieved to some extend. The
result of all the institutional reform programme could not be achieved in time. DWASA & GoB
still continuing their efforts to achieve the institutional development objectives.
We are confident that, for the sustainability of the project all the institutional reform programme
will be implemented with the cooperation and coordination of all concerned.
It is further noted that the rehabilitation programme followed by the studies needs proper design,
drawing & tender documents for tender as per World Bank conditions but these documentation
was missing in the ToR of the studies. Moreover, these contracts ought to be executed through
ICB as mentioned in DCA. It needs considerable time for processing and awarding an ICB
- 44 -



contract. Furthermore, all these execution ought to be sequential because these needs major road
cutting operations.
It is notable that at about mid of execution of the physical components the disbursement of IDA
credit was suspended. Being a suspended project it was almost impossible to retain the
contractors & consultants and continue the works. Even under such situation DWASA & GOB
manage to continue the work with the consultant and contractor without serious damage to the
implementation plan. This was possible only for the commitment of the borrower to the project.
Even during the major floods occurred in 1998 DWASA & GoB paid due attention for the
implementation of the project. Given the environmental constraints, DWASA & GoB tried their
best to implement the project as agreed.
Dhaka WASA has continuously tried to materialize the implementation programn of the project as
stipulated. In some cases there were slippage of time due to unavoidable circumstances like
suspension of disbursement of IDA credit.
There were a number of covenants and conditions associated with the credit to be fulfilled
simultaneously along with the project implementation. Fulfillment of covenants along with project
implementation simultaneously is practically difficult. Fulfillment of covenants, if any, should be
prior responsibility ahead of project implementation. Furthermore, multidimensional project
objectives, as was the case in 4th project should be avoided for successful completion of a
project.
The preconditions imposed by WB through the SAR for the execution of the project are only
possible to fulfill in an ideal condition. By DWASA, which is a public utility for a particular
service sector, it is not possible to fulfill all the conditions, some of which are beyond its own
jurisdiction.
After the credit was made effective, delay by two years to start the execution of civil works of
the treatment plant created an uncomfortable environment & urgency to the implementing agency
to start and complete the work under continuous suspension threat followed by credit suspension.
Some of the components could not be started for execution in time. Implementing agency
processed the tender documents for NOC of the Bank. The Bank in their January, 2000 mission's
Aide memoire instructed to prepare Revised Procurement Plan before processing. The revised
procurement plan was submitted by the implementing agency on March, 2000. The Bank by their
letter of May, 2000 instructed to defer the components with a view to restructure the project.
Instead of restructuring, the Bank suspended the credit on Nov., 2000. After withdrawal of
suspension on April, 2001, the implementing agency requested to approve the procurement plan
for execution of remaining components but the Bank did not approve the plan & ultimately these
components have been dropped from the project. This decision came from the Bank after one and
half years from the date of submission of the procurement plan.
-45 -



DWASA applied same level of efforts for the implementation of physical works as well as the
institutional reforms /development measures but this has to be kept in mind that many important
activities relating to institutional reform activities were beyond DWASA as well as administrative
ministry's control.
The processing of procurement of vehicle , equipment & computer was started as soon as no
objection was received from IDA in October, 2001. The tendering process for vehicle following
World Bank guideline was done through ICB. After evaluation of the bids the evaluation report
prepared as per World Bank guideline was sent to IDA for their no objection. After getting no
objection from IDA a formal contract between DWASA and the bidder was executed and sent to
World Bank. Later on IDA local office suggested Dhaka WASA to modify the bidder's
performance guarantee in foreign currency rather than the local currency as was given by the
bidder and subsequently they advised that the contract should be amended by changing the name
of the bidder which was originally the local agent. It may be mentioned here that the bidder was
local agent and submitted his bid in favour of the supplier and the World Bank advised to take
performance guarantee from the supplier in foreign currency instead of the bidder's currency as
was submitted. During processing of all these things considerable time was passed away. Even
then the supplier was ready to deliver the goods by July, 2002 but the World Bank did not
endorse the L.C. already opened in favour of the contract. If it was allowed to supply the vehicles
by July, 2002 the vehicles could be procured and payment could be made by October, 2002.
The processing of the procurement of equipment (Forklift & crane) following World Bank guide
line was made through ICB. After evaluation of the bids the evaluation report prepared as per
World Bank guideline was sent to IDA for their no objection. Due to receipt of non responsive
bids it was necessary to re-tender the procurement. The time available did not allow for going for
re-tendering as the credit closing date was re-scheduled 6 months earlier.
The tender processing for the procurement of computer following World Bank guide line was
made through ICB. After evaluation of the bids the evaluation report was prepared and was sent
to IDA. The world Bank advised DWASA to revisit the evaluation report. DWASA reevaluated
the bids and sent to World Bank for no objection which was not accepted by World Bank. There
was no further time for re-tendering.
It may be mentioned here that the amount allocated as per SAR of the project for the different
components those could not be started in time as stated above were meager. Dhaka WASA
started implementing these components in a much more expensive manner. As for example;
Twinning consultants identified 157 water mains rehabilitation jobs with an aggregated length of
201.40 km. Up till now, a length of around 50 km has already been rehabilitated. Under the
ongoing interim Project 4, an additional length of approx. 37 km of distribution mains have been
rehabilitated and work order has been issued for rehabilitation of another 27 Km. On top of this, a
further 7 km of rehabilitation has been taken up under interim Project 3 of which 3 km have been
completed.
As a part of the leak detection program, Immediate Action Program (Training) was completed.
- 46 -



Subsequently based on the recommendation of the leak detection program and those of the
Twining program consultants, System rehabilitation program is continuing utilizing GOB sources.
Based on the recommendations of the study for improved sanitation programme, massive program
for sewerage rehabilitation has been taken up. For the newly developed areas, feasibility study,
drawing & design of a separate sewerage system with some rehabilitation has been completed. To
finalize the source of fund negotiation with Japan Govt. is going on. The programme for
rehabilitation of existing sewerage system has been taken up. Tender has been floated for a
Treatment Plant at Northern Dhaka under a protocol signed with the Chinese Govt.
Around 36 kilometer of sewer has already been rehabilitated and another 24 km going to be
rehabilitated by Dhaka WASA from GoB sources
Under this project 35,000 meters have already been procured and installed by year 2000.
Procurement of meters have continued from WASA's own resources and in the Fy 2001-2002,
8000 meters have already been procured and installed, work order for the supply of another 4000
meters have been awarded and procurement of further 12000 meters are being processed. Meter
procurement and installation is a continuos process and necessary meters will be procured every
year.
Tube well regeneration program has been assessed not suitable in Dhaka because the failure of the
tube wells are not occurring due to encrustation but due to excessive declination of ground water
table.
Dhaka WASA, along the course of the project tried, with their utmost capacity, for compliance of
the financial covenants of the DCA.
4. Borrower's Performance:
Execution of the Project:
DWASA has carried out the project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the
available appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices. GOB has
provided, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the implementation of the project. Especially, during the period of
suspension of disbursement of the credit by World Bank, GOB took pragmatic steps to solve the
problem and continuously gave moral support to the executing agency to implement the project
successfully. Across the implementation period of the project, although there were changes of
Govt. during implementation of the project ,their commitment to the project did not change. To
implement the project Govt. provided necessary funds and logistic and policy support. The extend
of achievement of the objective of the project has been described in detail in the agency's
comments.
Borrower has put all its full efforts to fulfill the various requirement at appraisal and Board
presentation. In most of cases the borrower was successful in achieving the requirements. The
-47 -



borrower appointed the Managing Director & Deputy Managing Directors, WASA Act, 1996 has
been enacted by fulfilling the requirements mentioned in the SAR. All studies have been
conducted, most of the recommendations of the studies have been fulfilled, some are in the
process of implementation. The Govt. effort were never half-hearted although some of the steps
being introduced for the first time suffered delay in certain cases.
Lesson Learned.
Fulfillment of credit covenants & conditions.
There were a number of covenants and conditions associated with the credit to be fulfilled
simultaneously along with the project implementation. Fulfillment of all covenants along with
project implementation simultaneously was found not possible. Fulfillment of covenants, if any,
should be prior responsibility ahead of project implementation. Furthermore, multidimensional
project objectives, as was the case in 4th project should be avoided for successful completion of a
project.
The preconditions imposed by WB through the SAR for the execution of the project are only
possible to fulfill in an ideal condition. By DWASA, which is a public utility for a particular
service sector, it is difficult possible to fulfill all the conditions.
Acquaintance of PIU members with World Bank guidelines on procurement and
implementation and financial management.
The PIU members must under go a training to acquire working knowledge on the World Bank
guidelines on procurement, disbursement, implementations, financial management etc. well ahead
of start of the physical execution of the project.
Problems of financing the project from Multiple donors.
The two different sources of financing in implementing the treatment plant, namely, Civil
Construction funding from IDA & E/M equipment supply and installation by French funding have
created many problems in coordinating the work in two separate contracts with two separate
conditions of financing. This type of treatment plant should be executed by a single contractor.
Participatory Management:
Participatory type of management from all concemed could be more helpful in the execution of
the project which was somewhat lacking.
Miscellaneous issues:
Some miscellaneous issues/events which exerted important impact on the project implementation
are:
The construction of civil works & elector-mechanical works of the treatment plant, being financed
from two different sources, could not proceed as per implementation programme. The
implementing agency put its utmost effort by assisting the consultants & contractor for solving
the practical problems during execution.
- 48 -



5. Performance of Bank & Co-financing:
The World Bank's overall performance from inception to completion of the project was
satisfactory. Supervision missions were professional. The supervision missions followed the rules
& regulations of the Bank strictly to handle the project. Implementation problems were correctly
assessed. Necessary advice were given to the implementing agency & as well as the borrower to
complete the project.
The Bank has given sufficient effort to achieve the objectives as well as the fulfillment of the
covenants. But some of the covenants were rather difficult to fulfill within the scheduled time.
The supervision missions of the World Bank completed their assignment as planned. Being
understanding that many of the legal & financial covenants were difficult to achieve by cent
percent, the missions continuously stressed the Borrower for the fulfillment of the same which
encouraged the Govt. in its efforts to fulfill the objectives.
It may be recalled that a surface water treatment plant project was a long overdue for DWASA &
the Government. The borrower was committed to the public and determined to implement
Saidabad water treatment plant by any effort.
6.    Arrangement for future operation of the project:
Sustainability.
Infrastructure such as, Office building, Residential building, Workshop etc. has been set-up. The
water produced from Saidabad Water Treatment Plant has augmented the water supply to the
common people of the city. Implementation of the project has reduced the cases of acute water
shortages at different parts of Dhaka city. To sustain the project in the long run adequate
measures have been taken.
Operational Plan for Saidabad Water Treatment Plant
Saidabad Water Treatment Plant has been implemented under Fourth Dhaka Water Supply
Project and started operation from July 27, 2002 with approximately 1/3rd of its capacity. The
capacity has been increased 2/3rd on August 27, 2002. The plant is running with its full capacity
since 9th October, 2002.
(O&M) of Saidabad Plant & its Network:-
An organizational structure for the Treatment Plant has been prepared with the help of
consultants and contractor (plant supplier). At present we have engaged 40 operational staff of
different category and discipline. These staff are working along with the staff of the plant supplier
and they are getting in-house training.
A Superintending Engineer has already posted as the Head of the Operation and Maintenance of
the treatment plant. Under the direct supervision of the said Superintending Engineer two
Executive Engineers (one E/M, one Civil) have started functioning for the O&M of the treatment
plant. Besides, one Assistant Engineer, two Sub-Asstt. Engineer have been already deployed in
the plant.
-49-



In addition to that an advertisement has been published in the local dailies for filling up different
positions with a view to establish a strong O&M organization for smooth operation of the plant.
As a long term strategic plan, the possibility of engaging the contractor M/s. Degremont to
operate & maintain the plant for the next five years is under consideration. The French Govt. has
assured DWASA for financing in the O&M of the plant.
The Government of France has already informed DWASA that they are ready to make available of
an amount of 10 (ten) million Euro for the operation & maintenance of the plant for a period of
5(five) years. After receiving consent of France Govt. DWASA has placed proposal for engaging
electro-mechanical contractor of the plant M/s. Degremont for O&M of the plant to the Govt.
Hopefully the proposal will be approved soon. At present MIs. Degremont is continuing 0 & M
of the plant.
Protection of DND Canal from Pollution:
DND canal is very important to sustain the operation of the treatment plant in the long run. The
responsibility of the canal maintenance has been entrusted with the plant management to protect
the canal from unwanted pollution. As a part of that both sides of the canal have been fenced.
Local Govt. and administrative bodies and the elites are kept in constant contact to assist in
protecting the canal.
Department of Fisheries has been requested to assist DWASA in protecting the canal water by
stopping fish culture as it interferes with raw water quality. Necessary arrangement for
maintaining the desired quality of the canal water by using chemicals has been planned. Public
awareness campaign has been planned to motivate local people for protecting the canal water.
As a long term strategic plan DWASA is planning to construct a twin culvert of sufficient capacity
along with the DND canal from Mridhabari point to Karim Jute Mills, if necessary, to protect the
raw water quality during conveyance. This proposal was earlier forwarded to the World Bank for
financing from savings of the Fourth project which was, however, not accepted by the Bank.
Protection of Raw Water Sources:
The raw water source at Sarulia point are being tested at regular interval just after finalisation of
location of the intake point. The test reports show that no alarming situation has been arised in
respect of water quality. It is true that to avoid pollution from Balu river the intake point was
initially selected at the upstream of the confluence of the Balu & the Lakhya river. Due to the
huge cost involvement & to use the DND canal for transportation, the location had been changed.
In this changed location it is very much clear that unless the Balu river is protected from pollution,
in the long run, the quality of raw water at intake may further deteriorate and may cost additional
financial involvement for treatment.
In an interministerial meeting held on 10th October, 2002 a committee has been formed consisting
of (i) Director (Technical), Deptt. of Environment - Convenor (ii) Superintending Engineer,
Environment Cell, Dhaka WASA, Member (iii) One representative from Ministry of Industry -
Member.The scope of work of the committee encompasses identification of the sources of
- 50-



pollution of the Sitalakhya & Balu river, deternination of remedial measures and preparation of
integrated work plan. It has also been decided that Ministry of Industry, Department of
Environment, RAJUK (Rajdhani Unnoyan Kartipokkha), Dhaka City Corporation, BIWTA
(Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority ), Water Development Board and DWASA will
work together through integrated planning to protect pollution of water."
Comments from DWASA:
"1. Introduction
The 4th Dhaka Water Supply Project was established in 1996 by IDA. This project has been
co-financed by the Government of France , Government of Japan and the Government of
Bangladesh. The Japanese Government financing was 1.30 million US dollar, used directly by the
World Bank for the technical assistance for Water Resources Management Study (WRMS). It
was a grant rmoney. The French Govt. financing was 173.95 million French Frank (FF) equivalent
to 31.30 million US dollar, out of which 153.70 FF was grant money & 20.25 million FF was soft
loan to Bangladesh.
Fund from the Govt. of France was primarily utilized for procurement of Electro-Mechanical
Equipment of the Treatment Plant by Open Tender among the French Companies only. A part of
the financing was utilized for design, drawing & supervision of the project at initial stage.
The total amount of IDA Credit for funding under 4th Dhaka Water Supply Project was originally
SDR 51.00 million (US dollar 80.30 equivalent). Finally the credit amount stands to 38.964
million SDR. Credit closing as per Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was initially December
31, 2002. However the credit was closed earlier, that is, on 30 June 2002.
The overall project was comprehensively out lined and identified with concerned objectives,
project activities, and project financial planning in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), November
22, 1996 of the World Bank ref. report no. 16144-BD.
2. Project objectives
By financing core investment for the water supply and sanitation sector the project would seek to
ensure that the Government can address the essential elements of its development strategy. The
objectives of this strategy are;
a)    To increase potable water supply in the Dhaka city area by effectively utilizing available
surface and ground water resources.
b)    to increase the life of existing assets and reduce water losses through water loss reduction
and rehabilitation program.
c)    to commence a program of institutional reforms that would lead to efficient operation of
the water and sanitation sector in Dhaka on a commercial basis and prepare a strategy to enhance
private operations and mobilize private finance.
d)    strengthen water resources management for the greater Dhaka area, by optimizing use of
available water resources in the most economic and environmentally acceptable way.
3. Project description
The project components include;
-51 -



i) Capacity additions and service extension;
ii) Loss reduction, sanitation and efficiency improvement activities;
iii) The institutional reform program;
iv) Institutional development technical assistance; and
v) Project preparation and implementation support technical assistance.
3.1 Capacity additions & service extension:
This consist of the construction of a 225 MLD conventional surface water treatment plant &
associated works, including primary water transmission line. Sub components under this include:
i)    Land acquisition for intake, culvert and the treatment plant site.
ii)   Treatment plant & Associated works consisting of; Intake structure, pumping station &
connecting twin culvert between DND canal (capacity 14.5 cu m/sec) and the Lakhya river.
iii)  Rehabilitation of the DND canal & site development.
iv)   Construction of 1.6 km twin culvert from DND canal to the treatment plant site.
v)    Treatment plant which include Electro-Mechanical equipment & civil work, including Raw
water pumping station, Raw water flow dividing chamber including chemical mixing facilities,
clarifiers, filters, chemical & chlorine building, filter washout recovery facilities, sludge lagoon &
sludge drying beds.
vi)   Ancillary works like, Administrative office building, Workshop building, Residential
buildings, internal road, water, sewer & other utility service lines, boundary wall & fencing.
vii)  36.60 km of Primary & Secondary Transmission Mains.
3.2 Loss Reduction, Sanitation & Efficiency improvements:
This component consist of,
(i)   a distribution system rehabilitation program consisting of a Leak Detection Program to
identify physical leaks in DWASA service area, a system rehabilitation program based on the
results of the leak detection activities and a tube well regeneration program to replace,
rehabilitate and reset low yielding tube wells;
(ii)  expansion of service connections, consisting of a tertiary distribution system and
connection program; and a Crash Meter Installation Prograin to reduce unmetered connections to
about 5% within two years;
(iii) an improved sanitation program consisting of a study and preparation of a sanitation
master plan for Dhaka for the period 1996-2020, and first stage investments in low cost sanitation
and rehabilitation of selected sewerage systems assets;
3.3 The institutional reform program:
This includes (i) Amendment of DWASA Ordinance, in the lines of Commercial Utilities.
ii)   Re-organisation of DWASAs activities;
iii)  Introduction of private sector in DWASA operations.
3.4   Institutional development technical assistance:
This consist of the following programs & studies.
i)    Management and Operational Support (Twining) Program. To assist DWASA improve its
operational efficiency.
ii)   A Water Resources Management study of the Dhaka region: To obtain comprehensive
knowledge of Management of water resources in Dhaka.
- 52 -



iii)  Contracting out DWASA's billing, collections, meter repair services to the private sector.
iv)   Appointment of senior staff for management support.
v)    Training for DWASA staff to improve skill in the commercial operation.
vi)   A strategy study to asses options for private sector participation i/c a strategy for
mobilizing private financing.
3.5   Project preparation & implementation support technical assistance:
This plan includes the following sub-components.
i)    Design & Construction Supervision of treatrnent plant; Distribution system, Intake
structure, Ancillary structure & Consultancy services for network Analysis.
ii)   Consultancy services for design of Ancillary works. The drafting of revised WASA
ordinance.
iii)  Miscellaneous equipment like Motor cycle, Computer & Meter to support institutional
strengthening efforts.
4. Achievement of objectives:
The Project has achieved its major physical and non-physical objectives to a large extent.
4.1   The capacity additions of the water supply by the Saidabad Water Treatment Plant has
increased substantially the available water supply.
4.2   Under loss reduction, sanitation & efficiency improvement programme, several studies &
programs in the field of water supply & sanitation have been made. The recommendations of the
studies have created a positive impact for taking future programme for strengthening &
improvement of DWASA services. Some of the studies and programs are:-
*   Immediate Action Program, LAP (T).
*   Improved sanitation program.
*   Twining program.
*   Crash metering installation program.
*   Contracting out DWASA services.
The result of immediate action programme has helped DWASA to confirm its technical &
administrative losses. To minimize administrative losses the result of contracted out of two
revenue zones has indicated DWASA to go for contracting out of remaining zones. Very recently
DWASA has finalized to contract out another two zones to private company for the improvement
of collection efficiency by reducing the administrative losses.
Tube well regeneration program has been assessed not suitable in Dhaka because the failure of the
tube wells are not occurring due to encrustation but due to excessive declination of ground water
table.
Based on the recommendations of the study for improved sanitation programme, massive program
for sewerage rehabilitation has been taken up. For the newly developed areas, feasibility study,
drawing & design of a separate sewerage system with some rehabilitation has been completed. To
finalize the source of fund negotiation with Japan Govt. is going on. The programme for
- 53 -



rehabilitation of existing sewerage system has been taken up. Tender has been floated for a
Treatment Plant at Northem Dhaka under a protocol signed with the Chinese Govt.
Crash metering programme has helped DWASA to improve collection efficiency by determining
the water uses to the consumer's end. This programme is continuing by purchasing meter from
DWASA's own sources (Ref. may be made to 5.2.2).
In accordance with the guide line of the twining program, DWASA has started system
rehabilitation program. 50 kms of water line as identified by the twining consultant has already
been rehabilitated. A programme for rehabilitation of another 250 kms of water line has taken up
& will be executed by the year 2004(Ref. may be made to 5.3.2).
The 19 manuals produced by the Twining consultant have, by and large, 122 specific
recommendations. The implementation of these recommendations has improved the
administrative, commercial, financial and Engg. operations of DWASA.
4.3 The implementation of recommendations given under WRM (Water Resources Management)
Plan has facilitated better management of water resources by DWASA. The declaration of
environmental protection zone in the river Lakhya & Balu is a positive achievement in this
direction. The delegation of Authority to the proper organization for the enforcement of the
declaration is expected to be obtained very soon which would ensure control of DWASA over the
protection of quality of water in Lakhya & Balu.
Dissemination seminars conducted under "Cleaner Production Program", Policy consultation
seminar and public awareness seminars conducted during the WRM study have broadened the
stakeholders' view towards water resources management for Dhaka. Through WRM study it has
been possible to bring the stakeholders to one platform of common interest for protecting the
water resources.
4.4 The establishment of new DWASA Board as per WASA Ordinance 1996 has facilitated
obtaining greater Autonomy from GOB. The new management structure consisting of Managing
Director & three Deputy Managing Directors has made the day to day management of DWASA
more efficient which has created a dynamic environment in Dhaka WASA. This has facilitated
DWASA to meet operational and performance targets to a large extent. Introduction of activities
to involve Private Sector Participation in DWASA Operations especially contracting out of billing
& collection services of Zone-4 & 5 has brought substantial increase in revenue collection in the
concerned zones accompanied by as a significant reduction in UFW.
As a part of staff rationalization program the organogram of DWASA has been accepted by the
Govt. & Secretaries committee of the Govt. is reviewing papers for the approval of Prime
Minister
5. Output by Components:
5.1 Physical Components:
5.1.1 Intake, Raw water pumping station and twin culvert between Sitalakhya river and DND
- 54 -



canal.Intake structure, Pumping station & Twin culvert between the DND Canal & Sitalakhya
river including pumps & Electro-mechanical equipment for the Raw water pumping station was
fully implemented. The Electro-mechanical equipment installed under this contract can deliver 6.6
m3/Sec water excluding the water provided for irrigation purpose. Civil structure of the pump
house can accommodate additional pumps in future to raise the capacity of pump station up to
14.50 m3/sec.
5.1.2 DND Canal rehabilitation & Site development.
4.5 kIn of DND Canal starting from the Karim Jute Mills up to Mirdhabari was renovated
including construction of isolating embankment & metallic fencing along the two banks of the
canal for environmental protection.
The treatment plant site was backfilled to the required level for the construction of the treatment
plant.
5.1.3 Twin culvert between DND Canal & treatment plant site.
Twin culvert with a length of 1.60 km connecting DND Canal and the treatment plant site have
been constructed. This twin culvert is capable to carry 11 m3/sec. of raw water from DND Canal
to the treatment plant.
5.1.4 Supply & installation and of Electro-Mechanical equipment of the treatment plant.
The Electro-Mechanical equipment necessary for the treatment plant have been supplied and
installed on time. This supply constituted equipment for Raw water pump station, raw water
dividing chamber, chemical dosing, Clarifier, Filter battery, filter backwash recovery tank, clear
water pump station, treatment plant laboratory and workshop.
5.1.5 Civil Structures of the treatment plant.
All the Civil Engineering Structures of the treatment plant have been completed & commissioned
on time. The Civil Engineering structures are: Raw water pump station, Raw water dividing
chamber, clarifiers, filters, flow meter chamber, treated water storage tank. Treated water pump
station i/c. Electrical building, wash water recovery tank, chemical & chlorination building, pipe
works, sludge tank, dyke, sludge lagoon & sludge drying bed. These structures are capable of
treating 225 MLD of water.
5.1.6 Ancillary structures of treatment plant.
The ancillary structures have been constructed. This component includes 3 storied administrative
building, Workshop building, 2, 3 storied Residential buildings, boundary wall, fencing, internal
roads and utility services for the treatment plant complex.
5.1.7 Primary Transmission & Part of Secondary network.
36.40 km of primary transmission & part of secondary water system network has already been
completed and put into operation. It consist of 0.715 km of 1800 mm, 6.748 km of 1400 mm,
2.912 km of 1200 mm, 6.948 km of 1000 mm, 4.874 km of 600 mm, 12.737 kmn of 400 mm &
1.462 km of 300 mm dia ductile cast iron( DCI) pipe.
5.2 Institutional Strengthening.
5.2.1 Leak detection & System Rehabilitation:
As a part of the leak detection program, Immediate Action Program (Training) was completed.
Subsequently based on the recommendation of the leak detection program and those of the
Twining program consultants, System rehabilitation program is continuing utilizing GOB sources.
A length of around 50 km water line have already been rehabilitated.
- 55 -



5.2.2 Crash Metering Installation Program:
Under the project 35,000 meters have already been procured and installed by year 2000.
Procurement of meters have continued from WASA's own resources and in the Fy 2001-2002,
8000 meters have already been procured and installed, work order for the supply of another 4000
meters have been awarded and procurement of further 12000 meters are being processed. Meter
procurement and installation is a continuos process and necessary meters will be procured every
year.
5.2.3 Study on Improved Sanitation:
The study on the improved sanitation has already completed and DWASA is implementing the
recommendations of the study from GOB funding. In addition steps have been taken to bring the
hitherto unserviced area under piped sewerage system. The Govt. of Japan and the Govt. of China
is expected to provide financial assistance for the new projects.
5.3 Institutional development technical assistance.
5.3.1 Water Resources Management study:
Out of the 23 recommendations under Water Resources Management Program (WRMP), 12 have
already been implemented and remaining 10 are in the process of implementation. The only
l(one) that is not considered feasible at this stage i.e. shifting of the raw water intake point from
Sarulia because the intake has already been built.
The Ministry of LGRD&C has requested the Ministry of Environment and Forest, on 06 January
2002, to expedite approval regarding delegation of authority to Dhaka WASA for enforcement of
the declaration of environmental protection zone in the river Lakhya and Balu. (Ref. may be made
to 7.2.4). The environmental cell of DWASA, with its key personnel and logistics, is in operation.
However, the approval of the total manpower, logistic and funding is still awaited from the
ministry (MoLGRD&C).
5.3.2 Management & Operational Support (Twining) Program:
The 19 manuals produced by the Twinning Consultants have, by and large, 122 specific
recommendations. Of these, 74 have been implemented /adopted, 35 are in the process of
implementation, 8 need pre-implementation review and 5 need consultation with JICA. The
process of adoption/implementation shall continue.
Twinning consultants identified 157 water mains rehabilitation jobs with an aggregated length of
201.40 km. Up till now, a length of around 50 km has already been rehabilitated. Under the
ongoing interim Project 4, an additional length of approx. 37 km of distribution mains have been
rehabilitated and work order has been issued for rehabilitation of another 27 Km.
On top of this, a further 7 km of rehabilitation has been taken up under interim Project 3 of which
3 km have been completed.
5.3.3 Contracting out DWASA Services:
Two revenue zones of DWASA service area have already been contracted out. The results are
encouraging. Rest of the zones will be contracted out gradually.
5.3.4 Training:
The Twinning consultants and the Training Center of DWASA have carried out a number of
workshop/seminar and training programs for the Accounts Department and the Audit Department
on accounting codes, chart of accounts, budgeting techniques, financial regulations, extended cash
- 56 -



book, etc. A number of foreign training programs had been identified for the officers of DWASA.
The programs was sent to the Administrative Ministry with a, copy to the Bank. Due to credit
suspension & early credit closing this program could not be implemented.
5.3.5 Management Support Contract Staff:
The establishment of new DWASA Board as per WASA Ordinance 1996 has facilitated obtaining
greater Autonomy from GOB. The new management structure consisting of Managing Director &
three Deputy Managing Directors have made the day to day management of DWASA more
efficient which has created a dynamic environment in Dhaka WASA. This has facilitated DWASA
to meet operational and performance targets.
Three Deputy Managing Directors were recruited from the open market who worked till 30th
June 2002 i.e. up to the closing date of IDA credit.
At present as an interim arrangement senior officers of DWASA are working in the post of DMD
(RP&D) & DMD (O&M). One Officer has been deputed from the Administrative Ministry to
perform the duties of DMD (F&A).
5.3.6 Strategy Study for Mobilization of Private Finance:
The strategy study to mobilize finance and increase efficiency in DWASA was completed on time.
The implementation of the recommended actions for the sector reform and mobilization of private
financing is under active consideration of the inter-ministerial committee formed by the GoB.
5.3.7 Equipment:
5 computers, 25 Motor cycles & 35,000 meters have been procured under the project.
5.3.8 Project implementation Consultancy service.
Consulting firms engaged for planning, design & supervision of the work have completed their
work in due time.
6. Cost & Financing.
The total project estimated cost (IDA portion) was 80.30 million USD (SDR 51.00). The actual
expenditure was SDR 36.24 million which is close to 71% to the total estimated cost. Fund flow
did not significantly affect implementation of the project except during the period of suspension of
the disbursement.
7. Sustainability.
7.1 Infrastructure such as, Office building, Residential building, Workshop etc. has been set-up.
The water produced from Saidabad Water Treatment Plant has augmented the water supply to
the common people of the city. Implementation of the project has reduced the cases of acute
water shortages at different parts of Dhaka city. To sustain the project in the long run adequate
measures have been taken.
7.2 Operational Plan for Saidabad Water Treatment Plant
Saidabad Water Treatment Plant has been implemented under Fourth Dhaka Water Supply
Project and started operation from July 27, 2002 with approximately 1/3rd of its capacity. The
capacity has been increased 2/3rd on August 27, 2002. The plant is running with its full capacity
since 9th October, 2002.
- 57 -



7.2.1 (O&M) of Saidabad Plant & its Network:-
An organizational structure for the Treatment Plant has been prepared with the help of
consultants and contractor (plant supplier). At present we have engaged 40 operational staff of
different category and discipline. These staff are working along with the staff of the plant supplier
and they are getting in-house training.
A Superintending Engineer has already posted as the Head of the Operation and Maintenance of
the treatment plant. Under the direct supervision of the said Superintending Engineer two
Executive Engineers (one E/M, one Civil) have started functioning for the O&M of the treatment
plant. Besides, one Assistant Engineer, two Sub-Asstt. Engineer have been already deployed in
the plant.
In addition to that an advertisement has been published in the local dailies for filling up different
positions with a view to establish a strong O&M organization for smooth operation of the plant.
As a long term strategic plan, the possibility of engaging the contractor M/s. Degremont to
operate & maintain the plant for the next five years is under consideration. The French Govt. has
assured DWASA for fmancing in the O&M of the plant.
7.2.2 Protection of DND Canal from Pollution
DND canal is very important to sustain the operation of the treatment plant in the long run. The
responsibility of the canal maintenance has been entrusted with the plant management to protect
the canal from unwanted pollution. As a part of that both sides of the canal have been fenced.
Local Govt. and administrative bodies and the elites are kept in constant contact to assist in
protecting the canal.
Department of Fisheries has been requested to assist DWASA in protecting the canal water by
stopping fish culture as it interferes with raw water quality. Necessary arrangement for
maintaining the desired quality of the canal water by using chemicals has been planned. Public
awareness campaign has been planned to motivate local people for protecting the canal water.
As a long term strategic plan DWASA is planning to construct a twin culvert of sufficient capacity
along with the DND canal from Mridhabari point to Karim Jute Mills, if necessary, to protect the
raw water quality during conveyance. This proposal was earlier forwarded to the World Bank for
financing from savings of the Fourth project which was, however, not accepted by the Bank.
7.2.4 Protection of Raw Water Sources :-
The raw water source at Sarulia point are being tested at regular interval just after finalisation of
location of the intake point. The test reports show that no alarming situation has been arised in
respect of water quality. It is true that to avoid pollution from Balu river the intake point was
initially selected at the upstream of the confluence of the Balu & the Lakhya river. Due to the
huge cost involvement & to use the DND canal for transportation, the location had been changed.
In this changed location it is very much clear that unless the Balu river is protected from pollution,
in the long run, the quality of raw water at intake may further deteriorate and may cost additional
financial involvement for treatment.
- 58 -



In an interministerial meeting held on 10th October, 2002 a committee has been formed consisting
of (i) Director (Technical), Deptt. of Environment - Convenor (ii) Superintending Engineer,
Environment Cell, Dhaka WASA, Member (iii) One representative from Ministry of Industry -
Member.The scope of work of the committee encompasses identification of the sources of
pollution of the Sitalakhya & Balu river, determination of remedial measures and preparation of
integrated work plan. It has also been decided that Ministry of Industry, Department of
Environment, RAJUK (Rajdhani Unnoyan Kartipokkha), Dhaka City Corporation, BIWTA
(Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority ), Water Development Board and DWASA will
work together through integrated planning to protect pollution of water.
8. Borrower's Performance
8.1 GOB's performance during implementation can be considered satisfactory. Especially, during
the period of suspension of disbursement of the credit by World Bank, GOB took pragmatic steps
to solve the problem and continuously gave moral support to the executing agency to implement
the project successfully. Across the implementation period of the project, although there were
changes of Govt. during implementation of the project ,their commitment to the project did not
change. To implement the project Govt. provided necessary funds and logistic and policy support.
9. Lesson Learned.
9.1 Fulfillment of credit covenants & conditions.
There were a number of covenants and conditions associated with the credit to be fulfilled
simultaneously along with the project implementation. Fulfillment of all covenants along with
project implementation simultaneously was not possible. Fulfillment of covenants, if any, should
be prior responsibility ahead of project implementation. Furthermore, multidimensional project
objectives, as was the case in 4th project should be avoided for successful completion of a
project.
The preconditions imposed by WB through the SAR for the execution of the project are only
possible to fulfill in an ideal condition. By DWASA, which is a public utility for a particular
service sector, it is not possible to fulfill all the conditions.
9.2 Delegation of financial power to PD:
Threshold of financial power of Project Director was required. This might improve speed of
implementation of the project.
9.3 Formation of appropriate PIU (Project Implementation Unit) & control of Project
Director on PIU.
Formation of PIU with people from different disciplines are needed for total management of the
project. For example, professional Accountant, financial Analyst, Procurement Specialist, Liaison
Officer etc. must be specifically designated for the project and must be included in PIU who will
work directly under the guidance & control of Project Director. This is needed for efficient
management of the project.
9.4 Continuity of key Personnel:
Change of key personnel in the PIU, Agency as well as in the Ministry hampered and slowed
*down the implementation of the project. Continuity of the key personnel is very important for
- 59 -



successful implementation of the project.
9.5 Acquaintance of PIU members with World Bank guidelines on procurement and
implementation and financial management.
The PIU members must under go a training to acquire working knowledge on the World Bank
guidelines on procurement, disbursement, implementations, financial management etc. well ahead
of start of the physical execution of the project.
9.6 Control over the director of different project components especially the technical
assistance component.
The directors of different technical assistance programs & studies were supposed to be directly
accountable to the Project Director of the project. Lack of such linkage in the project has
hampered the integration of the project.
9.7 Joint tender evaluation:
The tender evaluation at different stages and by different team separately, namely, by the
Consultant , by the Agency's evaluation committee, Agency's tender evaluation committee,
Board's evaluation committee, Ministry's evaluation committee have retarded the speed of
decision making process and award of contract. A strategy should be developed to evaluate a
tender by a joint evaluation committee consisting of members from administrative ministry,
agency and the consultant in order to shorten the time of tender evaluation & awarding.
9.8 High level Continuous Monitoring:
The implementation of physical components of the project got the impetus and momentum
through a regular & continuous monitoring from the highest authority in the Ministry. This effort
should be replicated as a monitoring tool for future project.
9.9 Obstruction of ADP Budget planning due to credit suspension.
The timely availability of the ADP allocation is important criteria for smooth implementation of
the project. Due to credit suspension, provision of allocation in ADP could not be made &
resulted in considerable delay in the payment to the contractors.
9.10 Inordinate delays in payment of interim payment certificates of the contractors due to
too many channels of handling.
After recommendation of an IPC by the "Engineer" it took several weeks to pay the contractor
due to convention of processing the bills through so many offices & channels. This should be
carefully reviewed and a proper mechanism should be developed to decrease the inordinate delays
in bill processing for the smooth implementation of the project.
9.11 Activities requiring action from other Ministries:
The approval process of the action program sometimes was delayed due to involvement of other
Ministries like, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Law, Ministry of Environment & Forest, Ministry
of Land, Ministry of Water Resources etc. This may be considered as one of the factors in
impeding the pace of implementation of the action plan. Any future project requiring the actions
from different Ministries should be well coordinated.
9.12 Problems of financing the project from Multiple donors.
The two different sources of financing in implementing the treatment plant, namely, Civil
-60 -



Construction funding from IDA & E/M equipment supply and installation by French funding have
created many problems in coordinating the work in two separate contracts with two separate
conditions of financing. This type of treatment plant should be executed by a single contractor.
9.13 Continuity of Consultants role:
The planning design & implementation of the project by the same lead Consulting firm has
facilitated effective coordination among the different physical component of the work. With a
view to ensuring a consistent engineering approach and minimizing the amount of potential
conflict / disputes, the continuation of a same lead consulting firm must be ensured from the
beginning to the end of the project.
9.14 Lack of appreciation of the efforts given by the project personnel:
The implementation of the project have passed through several turmnoil and critical situation when
the project personnel worked with innovative approach, utmost diligence with inputs even beyond
the official hours, to overcome the bottleneck & barriers for continuation of the project. But,
surprisingly little appreciation or admiration was given to the concerned people. This type of cold
attitude might work negatively for the motivated work force. The Bank's attitude to the
implementing agency seems to be unusually hard. Softness in the attitude of the Bank would help
the implementing agency to understand as well as to address the problem more satisfactorily.
9.15 Rules vs Ethics : In the implementation of the project, in decision making the rules have
dominated over the Ethics. In some cases Ethics has not applied during taking serious decision.
The project could be implemented more smoothly if Ethics could be applied. This has been
observed during execution of physical works. It can be noted that procurement process of some
of the essential goods could be completed if we could apply Ethics for judgment.
9.16 Participatory Management: Participatory type of management from all concerned could
be more helpful in the execution of the project which was somewhat lacking.
9.17 Advantage & disadvantages of Engaging Consultant of the project.
Advantages & disadvantages:
Advantages:
a.    The conceptualization of a long term complex project needs so many external & internal
environmental factors which needs very careful study. For successful implementation of such a
study the input of the Intemational consultants who are experienced in this particular type of
work are generally found to be useful for the implementing agencies.
b.    The tender / bidding documents used for externally funded projects are generally of
International nature equipped with intemationally accepted condition of contract. This conditions
of contract contain many delicate and critical legal aspects which bear important implications. As
the intemational consultants are acquainted and familiar with such issues they can manage the
contract at the field level, effectively against the international contractors who are much tricky to
raise such issues.
c.    The consultants, normally engaged, are of international nature having own global image .
They generally try to upgrade or at least maintain their image. As such, quality aspects of the
- 61 -



project are maintained in a way that it conforms to the standard.
Disadvantages:
a.    Though the transfer of technology by the consultant to the concerned agency are
generally a condition of the appointment of consultant but in most of the cases consultant are
found to be reluctant to transfer the same. Even if it is done they do not make it in a
comprehensive manner which hamper the effectiveness of utilization of the technology by local
experts.
b.    In some cases even though the concemed agency is quite capable of managing the
project yet due to conditional extemal funding the agency has no other choice but to engage the
consultants involving considerable foreign currency
c.    During execution of the project / work the consultant has the entire responsibility for
maintaining quality of the work / project. If after implementation of the work / project if the
quality is not up to the mark the consultant does not bear any responsibility.
d.    After completion of the project and take over by the concemed agency consultants are
not liable to bear any responsibility of any defect arising out of the earlier decision given during
execution. These implications are equally applicable in case of financial decision taken by the
consultants.
9.18 Miscellaneous issues
Some miscellaneous issues/events which exerted important impact on the project implementation
are:
i) The prime objective of the project was to built a surface water treatment plant for improving
the water supply situation of the city. To sustain the plant the other objectives were introduced.
Unfortunately the suspension of the credit virtually stood to hamper the fulfillment of the main
objective & there was every possibility to abandon the project if we would fail to continue the
project during suspension.
ii) The construction of civil works & elector-mechanical works of the treatment plant, being
financed from two different sources, could not proceed as per implementation programme. The
implementing agency put its utmost effort by assisting the consultants & contractor for solving
the practical problems during execution.
iii) After the credit was made effective, delay by two years to start the execution of civil works of
the treatmnent plant created a panic & urgency to the implementing agency to start and complete
the work under continuous suspension threat followed by credit suspension.
iv) Some of the components could not be started for execution in time. Implementing agency
processed the tender documents for NOC of the Bank. The Bank in their January, 2000 mission's
Aide memoire instructed to prepare Revised Procurement Plan before processing. The revised
procurement plan was submitted by the implementing agency on March, 2000. The Bank by their
letter of May, 2000 instructed to defer the components with a view to restructure the project.
Instead of restructuring, the Bank suspended the credit on Nov., 2000. After withdrawal of
suspension on April, 2001, the implementing agency requested to approve the procurement plan
for execution of remaining components but the Bank did not approve the plan & ultimately these
components have been dropped from the project. This decision came from the Bank after one and
- 62 -



half years from the date of submission of the procurement plan.
v) On submission of a statement of works to the October, 2001 mission, the Bank partially
canceled an amount for the credit. The recommendation of cancellation was not based on the
statement submitted by the implementing agency. However the project has been completed with
the remaining credit, this was possible as we have failed to complete the procurement process of
some of the components within the revised credit closing date which was 6 (six) months earlier
than the original date.
10. Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank.
Donors performance from identification to completion of the project was satisfactory.
Supervisory missions were very professional, objectively oriented & based on understanding of
the borrower's institutional capability and on the basis of donors policy & procedures. During the
project implementation, the donor/borrower relationship was beneficial and productive. Both
parties responded positively to the practical needs that arose during implementation.
Implementation problems were correctly identified and adequately assessed. Necessary advice was
given to the implementing agency and follow-up actions were adequate. The timing of supervision
mission was appropriate and time spend for this was sufficient. The donor borrower relationship
was good though there was some misunderstanding prior to suspension of the disbursement of the
credit. As a result of suspension the project activities were limited within the capacity addition
program. Due to delay of about 1 year 6 months in receiving NOC for the revised procurement
plan, the issue of partial cancellation was established for time constraint. Revision of the closing
date about 6 months earlier than that of the original caused the non-completion of the
procurement cycle for some of the components which were requested for better operation &
maintenance of the treatment plant. Continuous suspension threat destroyed the moral courage of
the implementation agency to resist against any decision of the Bank.
- 63 -



- 64 -












r,'epo7k No.:   25247
Typs:   {GE



