Report No. PIC512
Project Name                   Bangladesh-Fourth Dhaka Water...
Supply Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Water
Project ID                     BDPA9482
Implementing Agency            The Government Of Bangladesh
Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority (DWASA)
Contact: Chairman, DWASA
98 Kazi Nazrul Islam Ave
Kawram Bazar, Dhaka-1215
Bangladesh
Tel: Not Available
Fax: Not Available
Date This PID Prepared         January 10, 1994
Projected Board Date           December 19, 1996
Project Objectives
1.   The basic objectives of the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project are
to: (a) initiate a program to enable DWASA to operate more efficiently
as a truly autonomous and commercially managed water supply institution;
(b) increase the life of existing assets and reduce water losses through
a rehabilitation and system maintenance program; and (c) increase
potable water supply in Dhaka by effectively utilizing available surface
and groundwater resources to expand water supply coverage in the Dhaka
metropolitan area in an environmentally sound manner.
Project Description
2.   The project would comprise: (a) a program to strengthen DWASA
operating policy statements which would define responsibilities in areas
like financial policy, tariffs, staffing etc; (b) technical assistance
to help DWASA to build capabilities in financial management, planning,
operations and maintenance; (c) comprehensive program for leak detection
and loss control covering the entire DWASA distribution network; (d) a
50 mgd surface water treatment plant including associated water intakes
and major transmission mains; (e) extension and rehabilitation of both
trunk and distribution mains; and (f) a strategic sanitation component
involving the preparation of a comprehensive waste management program to
address issues in sanitation/sewerage, solid waste disposal, and storm
water drainage in Dhaka City, including execution of priority
investments in waste management in a pilot area.
Implementation
3.   The project would be implemented over seven years.    DWASA will be
the implementing agency and has wide experience in the implementation of



IDA financed projects. Consultants to be engaged by DWASA under the
project will assist with the implementation of the project. A project
implementation unit will be established in DWASA.
Cost and Financing
4.   The project is currently estimated at US$148 million.    An IDA
credit of about US$70 million is being considered and a bilateral grant
of about US$33 million is under consideration by the Government of
France. The Government of Bangladesh will finance the difference of
US$45 million. The French grant will finance the foreign exchange costs
of the treatment plant, IDA will finance civil works, local costs of the
treatment plant and all technical assistance, while GOB will finance
land acquisition, and duties and taxes.
Environmental Aspects
5.   In compliance with the Board's Environment Assessment Operational
Directive, the project has been give a "B" rating. No adverse
environmental issues have been identified to date. The project will
include an environmental impact assessment. The long-term environmental
impact of the project is expected to be positive as the project will
reduce dependence on polluted water sources.
Task Manager:             Mr. Jonathan Kamkwalala
Telephone No: 202-458-56
Fax No: 202-477-5520
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



