Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16144-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 22, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1996)
US$ 1.00                -  Tk   41.90
Taka (Tk) 1.00          =  US$  0.024
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 centimeter (cm)       -  0.394 inch
I hectare (ha)          =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)        -  0.621 mile
1 liter (1t)            -  0.220 imperial gallon
1 cubic meter (m3)      -  219.9 imperial gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
ADP         -     Annual Development Program
CAS         -     Country Assistance Strategy
CIF         -     Cost, Insurance and Freight
CCC         -     Chittagong City Corporation
CWASA       -     Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
DANIDA      -     Danish International Development Agency
DCC         -     Dhaka City Corporation
DND         -     Dhaka-Narayanganj-Demra
DOE         -     Department of Environment
DPHE        -     Department of Public Health and Engineering
DTW         -     Deep Tubewell
DWASA       -     Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
EIA         -     Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
EVZ         -     Elementary Urban Zones
FFYP        -     Fourth Five Year Plan
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
GOB         -     Government of Bangladesh
HSD         -     Housing and Settlements Directorate
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IMGD        -     Imperial Gallons per Day
IRR         -     Internal Rate of Return
JICA        -     Japan International Cooperation Agency
NCB         -     National Competitive Bidding
LOI         -     Letter of Invitation
LGD         -     Local Government Division
LGED        -     Local Government Engineering Department
LPD         -     Liters per Capita per Day
MGD         -     Million Gallons per Day
MGY         -     Million Gallons per Year
MLD         -     Million Liters per Day
Vice President:                         Mr. Joseph Wood (SASVP)
Director:                               Mrs. Mieko Nishimizu (SA1DR)
Division Chief:                         Mr. Marie Robinson (SAlIN)
Task Manager:                           Mr. Jonathan Kamkwalala (SAIIN)



MLGRDC      -    Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development &
Cooperatives
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance
NGO         -     Non-Governmental Organization
PAP         -     Project Affected People
PCP         -     Project Concept Paper
RAJUK       -     Rajdhani Unnayan Kattripakha (Capital Development
Authority)
ROW         -     Right of Way
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
SWTP        -     Surface Water Treatment Plant
TOR         -     Terms of Reference
TYRIP       -     Three Year Rolling Investment Program
UFW         -     Unaccounted for Water
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Program
UNICEF      -     United Nations Children and Educational Fund
WASA        -    Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



I
I



BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paze No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...... ..................                        i
I.      THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR.                              1
A. Sector Background.                                                1
B. Sector Organization.                                              2
C. Sector Financing.                                                 3
D.  Sector Issues and Constraints.                                   4
E.    The Government's Sector Strategy.                              5
F.    Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector.                       6
G.    The Bank's Strategy and It's Role in the Sector                8
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                        9
A.    Urban Area and Features of Water Supply System                 9
B.  Level of Water Service .10
C.  Level of Sanitation Service .11
D.  DWASA's Investment Program .11
E.    Groundwater Vs Surface Water Options .12
III. THE PROJECT .14
A. Project Origin .14
B. Project Objectives .14
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .15
D. Project Description .15
E.  Project Cost Estimates .18
F.  Project Financing Plan .19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh in
August 1994. Mission members were Messrs. Jonathan Kamkwalala (Sr. Financial
Analyst, Task Manager), Robert McWilliam (Sanitary Engineer, Consultant), Marco
Fierro (Economist, Consultant), and Mohinder Virdy, (Procurement Analyst).
Messrs. Arun Banerjee (Senior Operations Officer, Resident Mission), Saibul Huda
(Program Officer, Resident Mission), Alf Jerve (Anthropologist) and Zahed Khan
(Resettlement Specialist) participated in the project appraisal. The project was
re-appraisal in May 1996 by Jonathan Kamkwalala, and Ms. Helen Nankani (Private
Sector Development Specialist) and Omar Hayat (Financial Analyst - Consultant)
assisted in the revision of the project documents. Peer reviewers are Guillemo
Yepes (Institutional Issues), Neil Boyle (Financial Issues), and Geoffrey Read
(Technical Issues).   The report has been endorsed by Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
(Director, SA1).   Ms. M. Robinson (Chief, SAIIN).   Secretarial support was
provided by Ms. Cindy Wong and Ms. Bina Duggal.



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT EXECUTION .20
A. Status of Preparation .20
B.  Project Implementation .20
C. Project Management .22
D. Project Supervision .22
E. Project Reporting .23
F. Procurement .23
G. Disbursements .25
H. Retroactive Financing .25
V.  IMPLEMENTING AGENCY .26
A.  Implementing Organization .26
B.    Organization Structure and Management .26
C.  Operations and Maintenance .27
D.  Billing and Collections .28
E. Unaccounted for Water .29
F.    Personnel Management and Training .30
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .32
A.    Past and Current Financial Situation .32
B.  Balance Sheet and Fixed Assets .34
C.    Current Water and Sewerage Tariffs .35
D. Financial Projections .36
E.    Performance Monitoring and Evaluation .37
F. Accounts and Audits .37
VII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS .39
A. Project Benefits .39
B.   Economic Rate of Return and Least-Cost Solution             39
C. Fiscal Impact .40
D.  Impact on the Urban Poor .40
E. Environmental Impact .41
F. Affordability .42
F. Project Risks .42
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .43



Page No.
TABLES
2.1  Water Demand, Supply and Capacity .10
3.1 Project Cost Summary .18
3.2 Project Financing Plan .19
3.3 Procurement Arrangements .23
5.1  Past and Current Financial Statements .32
5.2   Projected Financial Statements .36
ANNEXES
Annex 1.1  Water Supply and Demand
Annex 1.2   Projected Deficits, Planned Capacity Increase and
Investment Program
Annex 2.1  The Institutional Reform Program
Annex 2.2   General Operating and Financial Policy Statement
Annex 2.3   Performance Agreement between the Government of Bangladesh
and Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
Annex 2.4   Contracting out of DWASA Services
Annex 3.1  Detailed Description of Proposed Water Treatment Plant
Annex 3.2  Detailed Description of Institutional Strengthening,
Loss Reduction and Technical Assistance Components
Annex 3.3   Terms of Reference for a Strategy Study for Improvement in
efficiency the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Annex 4.1  TOR for Improved Sanitation Services
Annex 5.1  TOR for the Dhaka Water Resources Management Study
Annex 6.1  Detailed Project Cost Estimates by Year
Annex 6.2   Sumary of Project Cost Estimate
Annex 7.1  TOR for Leak Detection and Loss Reduction Program
Annex 8.1  TOR for Management and Operational Support (Twinning)
Program
Annex 9.1  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Annex 9.2   Procurement Arrangements
Annex 9.3   Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 9.4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex 9.5   Indicative Supervision Mission Schedule
Annex 9.6  Benchmarks for Assessing Progress at Mid-Term Review
Annex 10.1 DWASA Current and Proposed Organization Charts
Annex 11.1 Assumptions to the Financial Projections
Annex 11.2 Actual and Projected Financial Statements
Annex 11.3 Water and Sewer Tariffs
Annex 12.1 Performance and Monitoring Indicators
Annex 13.1 Economic Analysis
Annex 14.1 Suimmary of Project Environmental Impact Assessment
Annex 15.1 Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
Mai: IBRD-27130



I



i
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                    People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:                 Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA)
Amount:                       SDR 51.0 million (US$80.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:              Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of
the undisbursed credit balance set annually by
Executive Directors of IDA)
On-Lending:                   Interest rate at 7.5% per annum, 25 years maturity,
including five years of grace. GOB will onlend the
proceeds of the credit to DWASA. Onlending rates
and terms for the Government of France similar to
IDA. The Japanese Government financing will be
passed on to DWASA as a grant.
Financing Plan:              See para 3.11 of Staff Appraisal Report
Economic Rate of Return:    About 22%
Poverty Category:            Not Applicable
Maps:                        IBRD No. 27130
Prolect Identification No:  BD-PA-9482



I



FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Sector Background
General
1.1       Bangladesh is one of the world's poorest and most densely populated
countries, having an estimated 1995 population of about 120 million people, with
about 96 million (80%) living in rural areas. The country faces massive urban
population growth challenges due to rural to urban migration, resulting from
increased rural landlessness, lack of opportunities in rural areas and the effect
of natural disasters in rural areas. It is estimated that between 1974 to 1981,
the urban population growth rate was 10.6% per annum, declining to 5.4% per annum
between 1982 to 1990, compared to a total population growth rate of about 2.4%
annually during the later period. About 8.0 million of the urban population live
in the Dhaka metropolitan area, representing about 30% of the total urban
population. The disproportionate rise in the urban population has created severe
pressure on existing infrastructure and services, including water supply,
sanitation, solid waste collection and drainage services.  The environmental
conditions throughout most of the urban areas of Bangladesh are poor, with
discharges of human and industrial wastes into river systems, possible
contamination of groundwater from lack of adequate sewerage, and inadequate
management of solid waste disposal. These problems are particularly severe in
Dhaka, where the population growth rate is comparatively high and where it is
estimated that about 45% of the households have incomes below the poverty line.
The size of the urban population, combined with limited financial resources, puts
constraints on the development of adequate urban infrastructure, particularly
water supply and sanitation.
Water Resources
1.2       Bangladesh is located in the Ganges-Brahmaputra river delta, one of
the largest in the world. The hydrology of Bangladesh is characterized by three
major rivers, the Brahmaputra, the Ganges and the tributaries forming the Meghna.
The country experiences heavy rainfall during the monsoon, generally more than
1,500 mm annually.  This results in abundant surface water, which is usually
polluted and requires full treatment involving clarification, rapid sand
filtration and disinfection.   A very high incidence of diarrhoeal and other
waterborne diseases reflects the extent of contamination in the surface water and
the extensive use of untreated water from streams, rivers and shallow tubewells.
Most of the country, however has underlying sedimentary deposits containing
aquifers, which are the main source of groundwater. This water requires little
treatment and is used by public water utilities and private institutions as a
major source of supply. In the Dhaka metropolitan area, about 95% of the water
supplied by the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) is from
groundwater sources. However, over-abstraction in places, e.g. Central Dhaka,
is causing water tables to decline rapidly, resulting in increased abstraction
costs, limited water availability in the dry season in some areas, and widespread
failure of shallow tubewells.  As a result, there is an increasing need to
supplement groundwater sources with treated surface water sources. In addition



to these water sources, analysis of oil well logs has demonstrated that there is
a high probability of finding fresh water in several deep artisan aquifers
underlying Dhaka and other areas in Bangladesh at depths of about 2,000 meters
(6,560 feet). Potentially, these aquifers could provide partial water supply f or
Dhaka.   Investigations as to the existence of these aquifers have not been
undertaken, and it is believed that initial development costs could be
substantial.  Nevertheless, the Government regards this source as a possible
long-term alternative to current water supply sources in Dhaka and the rest of
Bangladesh.
Water SuPplY and Sanitation Coverage
1.3       Although accurate data is not readily available, most of the existing
water supply services in Bangladesh are not capable of meeting demand
requirements.   It is estimated that in the urban areas, about 42% of the
population has access to reasonably safe water, but the remaining 58% depend on
contaminated traditional sources. In rural areas, it is estimated that 77% of
the population has access to improved water supply through handpumps. Coverage
is higher in rural areas because of an intensive tubewell installation program
supported by UNICEF (para. 1.8).
1.4       With regard to sanitation, waterborne sewerage has been introduced
only in parts of Dhaka, but elsewhere, there is general use of unsanitary
latrines, direct disposal of sewage in open fields and to a limited extent, pit
latrines and septic tanks. In urban areas, it is estimated that about 40% of the
urban population has access to sanitary waste disposal services.   The rural
sanitation situation is much less satisfactory, with only 6% of the rural
population having access to sanitary waste disposal facilities. Because of the
limited sewerage systems and the inefficient sanitary waste disposal facilities,
untreated or poorly treated domestic sewage is a major source of water pollution,
and the morbidity/mortality rate due to waterborne diseases in Bangladesh is
among the highest in the world.
B. Sector Organization
1.5       The statutory responsibility for the water supply and sanitation
sector is under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives (MLGRDC). The Ministry, together with the Planning Commission share
the tasks of sectoral resource allocation, funding and policy decisions, as well
as project appraisal, approval, evaluation and monitoring. All projects in the
sector are processed through the Ministry. The Ministry's Department of Public
Health Engineering (DPHE) is responsible for planning, construction and operating
water supply and sanitation facilities in smaller towns and rural areas.  In
Dhaka and Chittagong, the Government established Water Supply and Sewerage
Authorities (DWASA and CWASA) as autonomous agencies responsible for provision
of water supply and sewerage services. These authorities also come under MLGRDC
as public utilities. DWASA is also responsible for stormwater drainage in Dhaka.
In the two cities, the Dhaka and the Chittagong City Corporations (DCC, CCC) are
responsible for all other sanitation activities other than waterborne sewerage.
Additionally, the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED), also under the
Ministry, is responsible for providing technical assistance to sanitation and
other municipal services to district towns that do not have municipal corporation
status. DPHE and LGED assist local governments to construct water supply and
sanitation facilities,  either through donor or Government financing.   The



-3-
mandates of these two agencies are not very clear, and their responsibilities
overlap at the district and town level. DPHE lacks adequate manpower and the
institutional capacity to provide support to the projects it implements in
district towns. As a result, most of its schemes are not sustainable. LGED has
better implementation capacity; however, its focus has been on physical
implementation aspects rather than improvement of the institutional capacity of
the municipalities.
C. Sector Financing
1.6       Sector development in Bangladesh has mainly been financed by donor
assistance, which has been mainly responsible for the tenfold increase (from a
low base) in availability of water supply. Although the Government has declared
its intention to develop safe water supply and sanitation, the level of
investment in the sector has remained very low due to funding constraints.
Between 1973 and 1990, public outlays for water and sanitation steadily dropped
from 2.48Z, 2.14% to 1.25% of development expenditures in the first, second and
third five-year plans respectively. This is significantly below allocations in
other comparable countries in Asia, e.g., Sri Lanka (6.0%), Nepal (4.0%) and
Myannmar (2.9%). In the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1990-1995), allocations to the
sector were budgeted to be 1.41% of the development expenditure, which is too low
even to meet the physical targets of the plan.   The most recent three-year
rolling investment program (TYRIP) for FY95-97, however, shows a reversal to this
trend. Allocations for this period were 4% of the total expenditure.
1.7       IDA has been the main donor in the urban water supply sub-sector,
having financed a total of five projects, (two in Chittagong and three in Dhaka),
for a total investment of US$108 million. The basic objective of these projects
was to improve the level of water supply services in the cities of Dhaka and
Chittagong and the efficiency and performance of the utilities.   The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) has been involved in financing water supply and urban
infrastructure in secondary towns and districts. In addition, ADB has also been
involved in an Urban Infrastructure Improvement Project in Dhaka, which includes
a component being implemented by DWASA, to provide water supply in low cost
housing areas. The Netherlands Government has also assisted the Government with
two projects (12 District Towns Project and 18 District Towns Project) to improve
water supply and sanitation focusing on extension of hygiene education, service
expansion and community involvement.
1.8       In the rural water supply and sanitation sub-sector,  development
activities have been supported by the UNICEF, the World Health Organization, the
UNDP/World Bank Sanitation Program, Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA) and the Swiss Development Corporation. Although these donors' focus has
been rural, some of their work has extended to urban slum and peri-urban areas.
Most of the assistance in this sub-sector has financed the development and
installation of handpumps in rural areas and low-cost sanitation facilities
(i.e., latrines). UNICEF's program has been very successful in increasing water
supply coverage in rural areas. Continued assistance by UNICEF, however, is now
being limited due to funding constraints. Most UNICEF assistance expired in
FY95, with no funding allocated for FY96.  Total allocation for rural water
supply in the TYRIP was 12, which is clearly inadequate.



1.9       Although DWASA and CWASA are supposed to be commercial and autonomous,
their capacity to generate financial resources to finance their own investments
has been limited. Donor resources for financing investments in the sector have
normally been supplemented by Government equity contributions and grants. For
operations and maintenance, tariff levels have generally been inadequate to fully
meet all operating costs and cover debt servicing costs. The resulting deficits
are usually financed by the Government indirectly by not servicing debt and
interest.
D. Sector Issues and Constraints
1.10      A number of issues hinder sector development and performance.  These
include problems related with inadequate funding of investments and poor resource
mobilization; the Government's management of the sector, lack of commercial
orientation in operations; and a weak planning capacity.
Fundina of Investments and Resource Mobilization
1.11      The availability of local funds to support investments in the sector
is generally inadequate. Government counterpart funds, even when budgeted for,
are not always made available when required, due to competing demands, thus
delaying project execution. Inadequate tariffs, poor revenue collection and a
high level of systems losses in the sector institutions (DWASA and CWASA) hamper
the mobilization of adequate internal resources to finance capital expenditures
for water and sanitation. In the municipalities, revenues are totally inadequate
to finance development and operating expenditures.   A 1986 analysis of 42
district towns shows that revenues on average covered only 29Z of current
expenditures. Foreign assistance through multilateral sources accounts for about
80Z of investments in the sector.
Sector Manazement
1.12      Overall sector management is characterized by Government control and
interference in the planning and operation of the water sector entities. While
DWASA and CWASA are supposed to be autonomous, most management decisions,
including tariff reviews and adjustments, staffing and investment decisions have
been controlled by the Government through MLGRDC. There are no clearly defined
guidelines for sectoral development or mandates for DWASA and CWASA's operations.
As a result, the WASAs have never had real commercial or management autonomy,
which has significantly hampered their performance. In addition, management and
staff of these sector institutions lack the necessary skills, experience and
training to effectively manage, operate and maintain the systems.
Lack of Commercial Orientation
1.13      DWASA and CWASA also suffer from a lack of commercial orientation and
accountability, poor management systems, and shortage of trained and motivated
staff. Poor billing and collection practices, a high level of unaccounted-for-
water, and high accounts receivable arrears are typical examples of this lack of
accountability. In a local zone serviced by DWASA, it was estimated that the
level of unaccounted for water was as high as 53% in FY93, thus reducing revenue
significantly and resulting in higher tariffs for the population paying the
bills. Of this, a large percentage (about 35%), is attributable to technical
losses while the remaining losses are classified as commercial or administrative



losses, e.g. under-billing as a result of unmetered connections, illegal
connections, inaccurate and tampered meters and rent-seeking activities of the
meter inspectors.
Weak Plannina Cai,acitv
1.14      Development in the sector tends to be adversely affected by optimistic
and ambitious goals that do not take into account the physical and financial
capacity of the sector institutions to carry out investments programs. Sector
development activities are planned on a project by project basis, without a
guiding framework.   In addition, lack of a clear operation and maintenance
programs and funding makes planned investments unsustainable. As an example, in
DWASA and CWASA, planned maintenance is limited to pumping stations and does not
include regular checks on distribution system mains for leaks.
E. The Government's Sector Strategv
1.15      The Government recognizes the urgent need to improve water supply and
sanitation in Dhaka and other areas. The Government also acknowledges the poor
performance of the water supply utilities, and how this performance has affected
efficient provision of water and sanitation services. The Government's sector
objective is to improve health and human productivity through the development of
services that are affordable and sustainable to as many people as possible, while
improving the efficiency of the sector institutions. The Government's policy and
strategy for water supply and sanitation sector development as seen in the
context of the national development strategy outlined in the Fourth Five-Year
Plan emphasizes, among other things, a "gradual shift of public service delivery
agencies from being providers of service to facilitators", and to encourage the
mobilization of local resources. Such a shift implies a move by the Government
from public provision of services to that of setting policy, while increasing the
role of the private  sector  in providing  such  services.   Local  resource
mobilization is especially important because the Government's efforts to improve
water supply and sanitation services in Dhaka and other areas are constrained in
part, by a lack of adequate resources. In addition, investments in the sector
are usually lumpy, requiring significant financial resources to implement planned
capacity additions. IDA's 1989 Country Economic Memorandum (Bangladesh: Public
Expenditure Review, Public Resource Management during the Fourth Five-Year Plan,
(FFYP) FY91-95) identified major investments on the order of $350 million as
being necessary for the water supply sector during the FFYP period. Because of
resource constraints, the Government's medium terms strategy is to emphasize the
rehabilitation of existing systems, where possible together with improvements in
efficiency, operations and maintenance. This rehabilitation would need to be
followed with carefully planned expansion of selected new systems, to provide
acceptable service to the rapidly expanding population. Such programs would have
to be accompanied by institutional strengthening, institutional and policy
reforms to bring about efficiency in operations and improvements in service
levels at the least cost possible. The proposed project follows this strategy.
The proposed new investments represents less than 50% of the investments
identified for the FFYP, but with efficiency gains expected from policy and
institutional reforms, substantial benefits would be achieved in service
provision. The project follows from the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project, which
financed substantial rehabilitation of the existing distribution system.



- 6 -
F. Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.16      IDA's lending to the water sector supply dates back to the 1950's.
A review of IDA's experience in lending to the water supply and sanitation sector
was recently undertaken with the objective of ascertaining the impact of Bank
involvement and refining some of the lessons of the experience (Water Supply and
Sanitation Projects, The Bank's Experience - 1967-1989). The report highlighted
several areas where IDA assisted projects had failed to achieve stated
objectives.   The most persistent problems include inadequate pricing, high
unaccounted-for-water,  poor financial management and cost recovery.   Other
principal areas of concern include the lack of autonomy from the central
authority,  continuous  political  interference,  lack  of  continuity  of  top
management, and poor incentives. The lessons learned from this study were: (i)
institutional performance, particularly in the areas of operations and
maintenance, unaccounted-for-water and human resources management, has been good
only where there was autonomy in utility management and an arms-length regulatory
system; (ii) sector organizations have relied too much on Government involvement
and public finances; (iii) the environmental impact of water projects were not
well documented, and the environment may have suffered as a result of weaknesses
in sector institutions and key policies, like pricing; and (iv) project
components, and related financial and operational covenants, did not specifically
address broader policy or development objectives, thus contributing to poor
sustainability.
1.17      IDA's experience in South Asia, and in particular in Bangladesh,
reflects this experience. In Bangladesh, IDA has assisted the Government in the
water supply and sanitation sector since 1963, having financed five water supply
projects in the cities of Dhaka and Chittagong. The First Dhaka Water Supply
Project (Credit 368-BD, 1973) was initially approved in 1963 as Credit 41-PAK for
US$26 million. This was later reduced to US$13 million, and financed groundwater
development involving tubewells and strengthening and extension of the existing
sewerage system. Implementation of this project was delayed due to the political
events that led to Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan. The Second Dhaka
Water Supply  Project (Credit 941-BD) approved in 1979 (US$20.5 million) helped
finance more tubewells, water distribution system improvements, elevated service
reservoirs, service connections, training and consulting services. The Third
Dhaka Water Supply Project (Credit 1734-BD), approved in 1986 (US$35 million) and
completed in March 1994, helped finance the upgrading and expansion of the water
supply and sanitation facilities in Dhaka and the surrounding areas.   In
Chittagong, the First Chittagong Water Supply Project (Credit 367-BD, 1973)
approved as Credit 42-PAK in 1963 provided US$20 million to finance groundwater
development, extension of the distribution system, metering and technical
assistance. The Second Chittagong Water Supply Project (Credit 1001-BD) of US$20
million financed the development of a surface water treatment plant and the
extension of the distribution system.
1.18      While physical objectives of these projects were basically met and the
water supply increased substantially, the financial and institutional objectives
were not fully met.  A review of the performance of the Third DWASA Project
provide a good example.   The project development objectives were to improve
DWASA's operational and financial performance, to strengthen sectoral training
and sectoral planning and to address immediate needs for additional supplies of
water and sanitation services.  Some of the specific objectives were to: (a)
continue the institutional development of DWASA emphasizing operational
efficiency, cost recovery and manpower development; (b) further develop Dhaka's



groundwater resources in order to increase cost-effectively the supply of potable
water and expand distribution of water to areas where service is poor or non-
existent through additional connections; (c) strengthen DWASA's control of
leakage and unaccounted-for-water, and rehabilitate parts of DWASA's distribution
system; and (d) extend secondary sewer to areas in which conventional sewerage
is affordable to maximize the existing waterborne sewerage system. A review of
progress against original project components at project completion showed that
DWASA exceeded original physical targets, and increased water production by 42%
beyond the targets in the appraisal report, and provided water to an additional
100,000 people.
1.19      Financial and  institutional performance was,  however,  not  fully
satisfactory. Although DWASA's revenues during the project period were close to
appraisal estimates, DWASA was unable to meet financial covenants set under the
project. Several reasons explain this performance. First, the financial and
institutional objectives established in the project were not supported by actual
components to address identified problems or to provide monitorable indicators.
There were no specific components in the project to improve financial and
institutional performance, or to help DWASA meet financial covenants.   As a
result, DWASA did not have a clear perspective of why its performance was
considered unsatisfactory especially since actual results were in line with
projected performance.   Even if DWASA had fully met physical and financial
covenants, its institutional and operational performance would still be weak,
since issues like poor management performance, system losses and poor efficiency
were not particularly addressed under the project.   Secondly, DWASA's poor
performance was also caused by excessive control of the institution by GOB which
created obstacles  to good performance.   Lack of commitment  to financial
objectives resulted in GOB's refusal to authorize required tariff increases to
compensate for increases in operating costs.  In general, implementation was
delayed due to problems associated with political transition in the earlier
projects and procurement problems, primarily in the appointment of consultants.
Lessons Learned
1.20      The implementation issues of the Third DWASA Project indicates clearly
that it is not sufficient to concentrate on financial and operational covenants,
financial results, and related tariff adjustments to bring about sustainable
changes in the institutions' operating practices.  A more sustainable reform
program must address the underlying institutional arrangements, or more
specifically the relationship between the Government and the operating authority.
A more sustained policy dialogue with the Government on the need for reforms
prior to project processing is also necessary to ensure Government commitment to
required reforms. In addition, project objectives need to be clearly reflected
in specific actions and programs in the project components, with monitorable
targets and output indicators.
1.21      In preparing the proposed project, this approach has been followed in
designing the reform program to enhance DWASA's efficiency.   The strategy
involves public enterprise reform and contracting out some services. At the same
time, the Government would develop a strategy for mobilizing finance and
increasing efficiency.  The scale of investment requirements means that this
strategy will require greater private sector participation, probably through a
concession. Under the public sector reform strategy, the institutional reform
program and its components address the broader sector objectives and draws on the
lessons learned as follows: (i) the comprehensive modification of the WASA



-8-
Ordinance and the establishment of a Policy Statement, aimed at reducing
Government interference in DWASA operations and increasing its autonomy; (ii) the
proposed leak detection and rehabilitation program, the Twinning Program, the
plan to contract out DWASA services and the Crash Meter Installation Program will
reduce unaccounted-for-water and improve operations and maintenance; (iii)
pricing issues are being addressed under a program to revise the tariff
structure, based on Tariff Study undertaken as part of project preparation; (iv)
environmental issues and the need for strategies in water resources management
that strike an adequate balance between competing uses of water are being
addressed under the Water Resources Management  Study   and the  strategic
sanitation program in the project; and (v) necessary studies would be carried out
for identification of the specific privatization alternatives, and identification
of changes needed in the legal/regulatory framework.
G. The Bank's Strategy and It's Role in the Sector
1.22      The Bank's objectives for lending to the water supply and sanitation
sector seeks to achieve four objectives.  First, the Bank seeks to assist the
government to achieve the least-cost solution to providing water supply and
sanitation services.   Second, the Bank seeks to foster institution building,
including the ability by the Government to plan and facilitate national or
regional programs by mobilizing adequate resources necessary for sector
development,  through  multilateral  and  private  sector  participation,  and
establishing a sound regulatory and pricing framework including adequate pricing.
Third, the Bank seeks to act as a catalyst for attracting increasing amounts of
investment finance.   Finally, the Bank seeks to ensure the availability of a
minimum supply of safe water and sanitation facilities to an increasing share of
the population, particularly lower income groups.
1.23      The Bank's  role  in the sector is to assist  the Government  in
implementing its sectoral program through the provision of much needed financial
resources and in gradually resolving the sectoral issues and constraints
mentioned above. The Bank's involvement in the sector has been instrumental in
helping the Government to develop and implement feasible and least cost water
supply and sanitation investments in urban areas in Bangladesh. More recently,
the Bank has been instrumental in helping the Government gradually develop
institutional and financial reforms and policies for the sector.   This is
consistent with the overall public sector reform strategy as defined in the FY96
country assistance strategy (CAS). The CAS emphasizes reduction of public sector
losses and increasing their efficiency as urgent priorities, particularly for
public enterprises, like DWASA. The proposed reforms under the project which
involve commercialization of DWASA through introduction of private sector
participation, leading to privatization arrangements during implementation, are
consistent with the CAS strategy for reforming state owned enterprises.  The
proposed program under this project is considered the first phase of sector
reform. It will be followed by a water supply and sanitation sector study that
will focus, inter alia, on overall sector reform, using Dhaka as a case study.
The sector work will cover needed changes in the legal and regulatory framework,
the roles of the public and private sectors in meeting investment needs and
achieving operational efficiency and will provide an action plan for facilitating
private sector entry. Provided that agreement is reached with the Government on
such an action plan, the Bank would expect to support sector restructuring
through future operations.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Urban Area and Features of Water Supply System
Background
2.1       The City of Dhaka is the administrative, commercial and industrial
center of Bangladesh. Dhaka's population has grown rapidly in recent times, the
highest growth rate (12.5%) being achieved between 1971 and 1985.   It is
estimated that the metropolitan Dhaka's current population is about 8.0 million,
approximately 30% of the total urban population.   By the year 2000, it is
estimated that Dhaka will have a population of about 9.6 million.   It is
estimated that about 45% of Dhaka's population lives below the poverty threshold.
The greater Dhaka area includes the township of Narayanganj, located on the
southwest part of the city.
2.2       Dhaka and Chittagong are the major economic centers of Bangladesh, and
approximately two thirds of the current employment in these two cities is in the
informal  sector.    Dhaka's  economic  growth  depends  on  the  small  scale,
manufacturing industry, which accounted for 80Z of its GDP in 1993. The city's
strategy is to encourage the growth of processing and manufacturing, including
garment manufacturing, food processing and jute processing which together account
for one-third of the workforce. Manufacturing and the informal sector will be
critical to future labor absorption and provision of the bulk of the employment
to the urban poor in Dhaka, which has 36% share of the national large scale
manufacturing activity.
The Water Supply and Sewerage System
2.3       Up to 1989, the service area of DWASA was confined within   the
metropolitan area. At the beginning of 1990, the Narayanganj area was included
within the jurisdiction of DWASA. At present, the service area extends in the
north to Mirpur and Uttara, and to Narayanganj in the south. Water supply to the
greater Dhaka area has increased ten-folds since the 1960's.   However, the
quantity of water produced per capita has not increased much because of the rapid
population growth of the city.  Current water production is estimated at 768
million liters per day (mld) (166.0/IMGD). Out of this total, 729 mld (95%) is
produced from about 181 tubewells in Dhaka City and about 8 mld (1%) from 9
tubewells in the Narayanganj area. The Chandnigat Water Treatment Plant, located
in Dhaka produces about 16 mld (2%), while two treatment plants located in
Narayanganj produce 15 mld (2%).  In 1995 gross requirements for water were
estimated to be about 1,150 mld, and expected to grow to 2,482 mld by 2000. The
total forecasted demand and supply of water from DWASA is shown in Annex 1.1 and
summarized in Table 2.1 below. The forecast is based on the projected growth in
the population of Dhaka and increased water consumption. The supply outlook is
based on the implementation of the phases of DWASA's long-term investment
program. Even with the planned additions to DWASA's capacity, Dhaka is going to
continue to face water shortages during the investment program period (1996-
2020).



- 10 -
Table 2.1 Water Demand. Supply and Capacity
1995    2000    2010    2020
Total Requirements (IMGD)                    262     302      388     546
Installed DWASA Capacity (IMGD)              192     266     386      503
Production (IMGD)                            166     256      375     491
Water Shortage (1I4GD)                        96      46       13      55
2.4       At present, DWASA has about 160,080 service connections, of which
110,177 are metered. The present water supply distribution system extends over
some 1,260 km with diameters ranging from 450 mm to 75 mm, and pipe materials
comprising asbestos cement, poly-vinl chloride (PVC) and mild steel of various
ages and quality. However most of the system is reported to be of steel, over
50 years old, corroded in many places and in need of repairs, in particular, the
secondary distribution system which consists of pipes made from materials that
have been phased out.   All operating deep tubewells are connected to this
distribution system, but supply is localized to the area in which the tubewell
is located. The pressure is generally low, ranging from 2 to 4 meters in the
south and central part of the city, with slightly higher pressures in some parts
of the city.   There are supply deficiencies throughout the city, prompting
complaints from consumers.   A total of 35 elevated storage reservoirs are
provided in the system, but because of the large demand for water and the low
pressure in the system, the water is pumped directly into the distribution
system, by-passing the elevated reservoirs.   The project will provide an
expansion of the distribution system network, expected to provide water to an
additional 500,000 people, as well as reducing suppressed demand over the whole
DWASA area.
2.5       Dhaka's sewerage system extends over 450 km, and consists of lateral
and trunk lines, interceptors and lift stations. Due to the flat terrain of the
city, sewage flows by gravity to lift stations, until it reaches the Pagla
Treatment facility, from which the treated effluent is discharged into the
Buriganga River. Currently there are about 40,790 sewer service connections,
covering only 29% of the population served by DWASA water supply. Waterborne
sewerage is expensive and the investments involved are beyond DWASA's resource
capability. With the increasing population, it will be necessary for DWASA to
pursue less costly on site sanitation alternatives, including rehabilitation of
the existing system to ensure that the majority of the population has access to
safer sanitation services.
B. Level of Water Service
2.6       At present, it is estimated that the population served by the DWASA
water service is 4.1 million, representing about 65Z of the total population of
DWASA's service area, and only 50Z of the population of the metropolitan Dhaka
area. Actual production is estimated at 166 IMGD, while total billed consumption
in FY95 was estimated to be 80.0 IMGD.   Of the total population served,
approximately 92%, equivalent to 3.6 million are supplied through house
connections while the remaining population (300,000) is supplied through 1,680



- 11 -
standposts located in high density areas throughout the city. Presently, the
population served through house connections is estimated on the basis of 24.4
people per connection, while the population per hydrant is estimated to be 175
people per hydrant.   This is considerably higher than other countries, but
reflects the crowded conditions of most housing areas in Dhaka, the tendency in
Dhaka to live in high rise apartments, and the high population growth rate. The
projections further assume that the average number of households per connection
is 2.4.
2.7       About 7%-12Z of DWASA's customers in Dhaka (excluding Narayanganj) are
classified as commercial and industrial. Commercial customers include hotels,
office building and restaurants, while manufacturing and processing industries,
e.g.,  tanneries are classified as industrial.   Most  industrial and large
commercial concerns have a private supply, usually obtained by installing a deep
tubewell. This explains the lov level of industrial and commercial consumption
from DWASA's supply. Until recently, such private tubewells were unregulated,
leading to excessive groundwater abstraction and wasteful water use practices and
threatening the availability and sustainability of groundwater as a long-term
resource.    Recently,  the  Government  introduced  legislation  to  regulate
groundwater use, by requiring all private tubewells to be formally registered
with DWASA and users to pay an initial and annual license fee. Although this
legislation is in place, enforcement is very weak, and most tubewells still
operate unregulated. A review of the regulatory framework for the water resource
use will be conducted under the Water Resources Management Study in the project
to address in the management of water resources, including the effective control
of private and industrial use (para. 3.7(d)(ii)).
C. Level of Sanitation Service
2.8       At present, Dhaka does not have an adequate sewerage and sanitation
system. The waterborne sewerage system operated by DWASA only covers about 15%
of the total population of Dhaka (or 29% of the population in DWASA service
area). It is estimated that another 30% of the population uses approximately
50,000 septic tanks and another 15% have access to bucket and pit latrines. The
remaining population do not have any form of acceptable sanitary disposal system.
Much of the sewage collection system is in poor condition due to lack of a proper
repair and maintenance program, which leads to sewage overflow into storm drains
during the rainy season.   This results in insanitary conditions, which are
aggravated by the lack of a well functioning sullage drainage system. Under an
ADB financed project, DWASA is installing a "small bore sewerage system" in
Mirpur. Other programs include a recently completed rehabilitation of the Pagla
Treatment Plant, financed by JICA, and a sanitation component under IDA's Urban
Development Project (Credit 1930-BD) involving the construction of latrines in
slum areas. The proposed project includes a technical assistance component for
the preparation of a comprehensive long-term program to address sanitation and
sewerage issues in Dhaka, including the execution of priority investments for low
cost sanitation and sewerage system rehabilitation. (para. 3.7(c)(iii).
D. DWASA's Investment Program
2.9       In order to meet future water demand, four alternative programs were
considered under the long term investment program for water supply and
sanitation. These alternative programs are combinations of expansion phases of



- 12 -
surface water treatment plants at two sites (Saidabad, from the Lakhya River and
Friendship Bridge, from the Buriganga River) and the development of additional
tubewells conjuntively to supplement surface water sources.  However, in the
short run the Friendship bridge alternatives were shown to present problems due
to possible pollution at the identified site, and land acquisition difficulties.
The alternatives were thus reduced to different phases of the Saidabad plant.
For future groundwater development, the basic decision of investments must be
based on an in-depth analysis of the technical aspects of groundwater resource
availability, and a well-defined and enforceable plan to regulate private and
public production from groundwater.
2.10 _   Annex 1.2 shows the various components of the long-term investment
program. This program represents the priority investments needed to reduce water
shortages and meet future demand from 1996 to the year 2020. The basis of the
investment program is a least cost combination of deep tubewells and surface
water treatment plant.   Included in the program are activities to expand
sewerage, costing about US$1.2 billion. Clearly, these would be reviewed and
evaluated in the context of available financial resources. However, sanitary
conditions in Dhaka are poor and deteriorating (current coverage is about 15%),
and investments in sewerage expansion are critically needed.  The sanitation
component under the project will redefine the sewerage investment program to
identify less costly options for sanitation in Dhaka, including investments in
low cost sanitation to be undertaken in the medium term.
2.11      The total long-term investment program for water up to 2020 is US$588
million, which involves capacity additions from surface water of 50 IMGD in 1999
and 2008, and 100 IMGD in 2016, and deep tubewell field construction in 2002/03.
However, the development of deep tubewell capacity will have to be based on an
assessment of groundwater sources and a plan for adequate management of the
aquifer based on the results of the Water Resources Management Study in this
project. IDA's involvement in the program is a time slice of US$175.8 million
(30%) in the first phase, whose objective is to reduce supply deficits, and
improve the distribution network to reduce losses.
2.12      The program would allow for modest increases in water supply and
sanitation coverage.  Much larger investments would be required if adequate
coverage (over 90% for water and 60% for sanitation) is to be provided for Dhaka.
Such investment requirements are beyond the financing capability of the
Government and donors.  Under this project, a study to assess private sector
participation in DWASA would also explore private financing for the accelerated
investment program.
E. Groundwater Vs Surface Water Options
2.13      DWASA's earlier projects financed by the Government and IDA developed
water supply primarily from groundwater sources. However, the need for a surface
water treatment plant to increase the water supply in Dhaka has been recognized
for some time due to the considerable lowering of the groundwater table in Dhaka.
Studies undertaken during the preparation of the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project
(Cr. 1734-BD) recommended the construction of a surface water treatment plant as
the next major investment for water supply for Dhaka (Report No. 5964-BD). Under



- 13 -
Credit 1734-BD, a Dhaka Region Groundwater and Subsidence Studyl was undertaken
with the objective of assessing the impact of construction of additional
tubewells within the Dhaka area to the current groundwater levels.  Specific
objectives were to: (a) assess the impact of increased groundwater abstraction
in the greater Dhaka area; (b) quantify future groundwater abstraction, wellfield
location and management of groundwater resources; and (c) evaluate the effect of
increased abstraction on the compaction of clay and silt layers overlying the
main aquifer.
2.14      The findings of this study showed that groundwater levels beneath
Dhaka City have fallen steadily over the last 25 years in response to continually
increasing abstraction. Water levels have dropped in the Motijheel, Tejgaon and
Old Dhaka areas and reached a maximum depth of 20 meters below ground surface
levels in 1989 (from about 3 meters in 1965). The groundwater resource model
developed under this study also showed that if no new wells are commissioned in
Dhaka City and the existing wells continue to operate at their present
discharges, a steady state would be achieved by 1992/93 without reducing the
capacity of the existing DWASA tubewells, although there would be reduction in
yields in private wells whose pumps were set at depths of less than 20 meters.
If additional wells were commissioned, the groundwater level would continue to
fall, thus affecting the yield of existing DWASA wells.  The study however noted
that abstraction in Dhaka City did not affect groundwater levels in wellfields
outside Dhaka City (North and West of Dhaka, Savar, Tongi and Keraninganj).
2.15      Based on this analysis, the study recommended that subject to further
investigations, there should be limited development of groundwater between Dhaka
City and Narayanganj because of limited recharge potential, and the risk of
increased drawdown in the groundwater. While the study recommended development
of groundwater in the areas outside the city, it also noted that this may cause
some adverse effects to irrigation and industrial users who are located in these
areas. The study also noted that the cost of bringing water from outside Dhaka
into the city could be high (transmission pipes, land acquisition, river
crossings); thus, it recommended that well fields outside the city should be
developed for localized supply instead of supplying the city.
2.16      The economic costs of bringing water from these areas for Dhaka City
were analyzed during the preparation of this project. Based on this analysis,
it was concluded that the most effective option in the short-run would be the
development of surface water to supply water to Dhaka City, coupled with the
development of wellfields outside Dhaka in the medium term, to meet needs as the
city expands closer to those areas.
1 EPC, Mott MacDonald, Camp Dresser McKee, "Dhaka Region Groundwater and
Subsidence Study" Volume 2, May 1991.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin
3.1       In the past three decades, the Government of Bangladesh has sought to
formulate a long-term water master plan for the city of Dhaka, using the least
cost method and utilizing available water resources to alleviate water shortages
in the city.  A feasibility study and the master plan, financed by bilateral
donor assistance was prepared in 1992. Project preparation since the completion
of the study emphasized on reaching agreement in principle with the Government
of Bangladesh on the institutional and financial reforms required to enable DWASA
to operate with more autonomy and efficiency  as a truly independent commercial
utility capable of generating adequate revenues to cover all its operating and
maintenance costs, and servicing its debt. Agreement in principle on the reform
program was a condition to further preparation of the physical components of the
project.
3.2       The project represents the least cost feasible solution for the
provision of 50 IMGD to meet demand projections.   As discussed above, the
development of an equivalent 50 IMGD well field source at Keraninganj, on the
right bank of the Buriganga River (including transmission, and access roads) to
supply Dhaka City is estimated to exceed the cost of the Saidabad surface water
treatment plant and transmission, not counting the cost of well replacements
which would be necessary over the life of the project.  Deep tubewells will
require to be redrilled every 10-15 years just to maintain output.
3.3       Difficulties with the well-field solution include the acquisition of
agricultural land, access and technical problems with the river crossing. The
development of surface supplies will also help arrest the continuing decline in
the water table which is resulting in higher pumping costs in the most depleted
areas of the well field. This draw-down eventually leads to the suspension of
production altogether. DWASA on average, is currently replacing seven tube-wells
every year.   The project is justified on economic, financial and technical
grounds as the next step for DWASA in the provision of safe drinking water in
Dhaka.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.4       The basic objectives of the project are: (i) to commence a program of
institutional reforms that would lead to efficient operation of the water and
sanitation sector in Dhaka on a commercial basis and prepare a strategy to
enhance private operations and mobilize private finance; (ii) to increase the
life of existing assets and reduce water losses through a water loss reduction
and rehabilitation program; (iii) strengthen water resources management for the
greater Dhaka area, by optimizing use of available water resources in the most
economic and environmentally acceptable way; and (iv) to increase potable water
supply in the Dhaka area by effectively utilizing available surface and
groundwater resources to expand water supply in the Dhaka metropolitan area.
3.5       The focus of the project is on:  (a) institutional strengthening and
achievement of financial and operational autonomy to ensure that DWASA, within
a reasonable time frame, is able to provide efficient and reliable services; and
(b) increasing available water supply to alleviate shortages through loss
reduction and capacity additions. The institutional components of the project



- 15 -
will address some of the key sectoral constraints identified, namely the lack of
commercial orientation in DWASA operations, weak planning capacity and excessive
control by GOB on DWASA's day-to-day operations. This effort is consistent with
the country objectives for public enterprise/utility reforms.    The physical
components will improve DWASA's capacity to provide water supply and sanitation
services more efficiently and expand its service to new areas.   Technical
assistance will support better operations under a private   sector manager
supported with a twinning arrangement, and including a study leading to a higher
degree of private sector participation and mobilization of private finance.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.6       IDA has supported GOB and DWASA develop and improve the urban water
supply and sanitation sector for many years. While much has been accomplished
on the physical side, the increase in water produced per capita has been marginal
due to the high population growth of Dhaka and other urban areas.   Further
investments are required to rehabilitate the system, reduce losses and increase
supply.   Institutional performance has been unsatisfactory, while financial
performance has been erratic. The objectives being pursued in this project are
part of the broad fundamental reforms IDA is pursuing in the country's public
utility sector including power and gas as well as water. This approach is built
on the recognition that the investments needed in these sectors to support growth
and public welfare exceed the fiscal prospects of the public sector; it also
recognizes that successive governments have not been able to produce efficient,
financially self-sustaining public utilities. It looks to maximizing the role
of the private sector, under a sound, transparent and independently administered
regulatory framework. Furthermore, as the lead donor in Bangladesh, IDA can play
a major catalytic role by giving the Government's institutional reform program
the support it needs, by encouraging the Government to continue with the reform
process and sustain its momentum and by assisting in coordinating donor
participation within the reform framework. IDA's involvement will also assist
in the orderly and efficient development of the sector by helping DWASA better
define and rationalize its investment options, GOB to plan and analyze such
investments to increase availability of water and sanitation services, promote
private sector participation and better water resource management, and finally
help define a sanitation strategy for Dhaka. The Bank's involvement will also
afford DWASA opportunities to draw on the Bank Group's experience in utility
reform in other countries.
D. Prolect Description
3.7       The project components are described in detail in Annexes 2.1, 2.2,
2.3 and 2.4, 3.1 and 3.2 and will include major activities as follows:
-    the institutional reform program;
-    capacity additions and service extension;
-    loss reduction, sanitation and efficiency improvement activities;
-    institutional development technical assistance; and
-    project preparation and implementation support technical assistance.



- 16 -
(a)  The institutional reform Program:  This includes:
(i)  amendment of the WASA Ordinance to provide DWASA with operating
conditions   that  would  approximate   those   of  commercial
organizations established under the Companies Act, and obtain
greater autonomy from GOB by strengthening and streamlining
DWASA's existing Board to establish a Board of Directors along
the lines of commercial utilities;
(ii)  defining the Board's role on policy matters relating to corporate
planning, tariff setting, staffing, appointment of senior
management and remuneration, with the objective of separating the
responsibilities of the Government, the Board and management.
Under this arrangement, the Chairman of the Board would be
appointed from outside the Government while the Board would
appoint the Managing Director of DWASA, subject to GOB
confirmation. A draft Policy Statement is attached at Annex 2.2;
(iii) establishing and enforcing management accountability by requiring
DWASA to meet operational and performance targets;
(iv) re-organization of DWASA's activities into profit/loss centers to
introduce transparency into operations; and
(v)  introduction   of   activities   to   involve   private   sector
participation in DWASA operations, including possible concession
arrangements.
(b)  capacity additions and service extensions:  (US$140.9 million) This
will mainly consist of the construction of a 50 IMGD conventional
surface water   treatment plant  and associated works,  including
transmission lines. Sub-components under this include:
(i)  land acquisition for intake, culvert and the treatment plant site
(US$24.5 million);
(ii) treatment plant and associated work consisting of intake
structure and pump station (6.6 cu.m./sec) at the Lakhya River
(US$3.7 million); rehabilitation of the DND Canal and site
development (US$3.0 million); construction of a 1.7 km culvert
from DND canal to the treatment plant site (US$3.8 million);
treatment plant electromechanical equipment and civil works,
including mixing tanks, flocculators, pump stations, settling
basins, filters, sludge recovery facilities and ponds (US$76.8
million); ancillary works, administration and office buildings
(US$2.6 million); and 38 km of primary and secondary transmission
mains (US$26.6 million);
(c)  loss reduction.  sanitation and efficiency improvements:   (US$18.0
million) This will consist of various actions to reduce water loss,
increase revenue and improve DWASA efficiency, including a sanitation
program. Subcomponents include:
(i) a distribution system rehabilitation program consisting of a Leak
Detection Program to identify physical leaks in DWASA service



- 17-
area (US$1.2 million); a system rehabilitation program based on
the results of the leak detection activities (US$8.0 million);
and a tubewell regeneration program to replace rehabilitate, and
reset low yielding tubewells (US$1.0 million);
(ii)  expansion of service  connections,  consisting  of a tertiary
distribution system and connection program (US$1.9 million); and
a Crash Meter Installation Program to reduce unmetered
connections to about 5Z within two years (US$1.0 million);
(iii) an improved sanitation program consisting of a study and
preparation of a sanitation master plan for Dhaka for the period
1996-2020 (US$0.8 million), and first stage investments in low
cost sanitation and rehabilitation of selected sewerage systems
assets (US$4.2 million);
(d) Institutional Development Technical Assistance: (US$8.9 million).
This will consist of institutional strengthening to support the
following programs and studies:
(i)  Management and Operational Support (Twinning) Program from an
efficient utility to assist DWASA improve its financial and
operational performance and efficiency (US$4.0 million);
(ii)  a Water Resource Management Study of the Dhaka Region to obtain
adequate knowledge for management of water resources in Dhaka and
effectively monitor and regulate the quantity and quality of
water in the region (US$1.3 million);
(iii) a program to contract out DWASA billing, collections and meter
repair services to the private sector (US$0.8 million);
(iv)  management  support  to senior  contract  staff  on fixed term
appointment to provide needed incentives to retain staff with
necessary skills (US$0.9 million);
(v)  a training program for DWASA staff to improve skills in the
commercial operation of utilities (US$1.1 million); and
(vi)  a study to assess options for private sector participation
including a strategy for mobilizing private financing and
improved efficiency, leading to increased private sector
participation (US$0.8 million).
(e) Prolect Preparation and Implementation Support Technical Assistance:
(US$8.1 million). This will consist of the following subcomponents:
(i)  miscellaneous equipment  (motor vehicles,  computer equipment,
meters etc) to support institutional strengthening efforts
(US$1.7 million);
(ii)  consulting  services for the design of ancillary works,  the
drafting of the revised WASA Ordinance; (US$0.1 million);



- 18 -
(iii)  construction supervision of the treatment plant, distribution
system, and consulting services for a Network Analysis (US$6.2
million); and
(iv)  consultancy services to assist DWASA implement a revised tariff
structure (0.1 million).
E. Proiect Cost Estimates
3.8               The total project costs,  including contingencies  is estimated at
US$175.8 million equivalent (Taka 7.4 billion), of which US$88.1 million (50.1Z)
is in foreign exchange. The project cost includes taxes and duties estimated at
about US$35.5 million. The base cost is expressed in January 1996 prices. Cost
estimates for the project are based on consultant feasibility studies and
preliminary design, and the cost of recently awarded contracts for similar works,
updated to January 1996 price levels after appraisal.
3.9               Physical contingencies are estimated at 5 to 10% for all the civil
works, equipment and consultancy services. Estimated price increases over the
project period amounted to 5% of the base costs plus physical contingencies.
Price escalations for foreign costs are estimated at 4.5% for FY95, 2.9% for
FY96, 2.0% for FY97, 2.1% for FY98, 2.3% for FY99, 2.4% FY00, 2.3% for FY01, and
2.2% thereafter, and for local costs at 4.0% for FY95, 5.0% for FY96, and 4.0%
for FY97 and thereafter. It is estimated that the exchange rate adjustment would
on average, maintain purchasing power parity during the project implementation
period. Summary project cost estimates are shown in Table 3.1 and detailed cost
estimates are given in Annexes 6.1 and 6.2.
Table 3.1 Project Cost Summary 1/
ILocal Mfion)                                        (US$ Million)
%        % Totel                                    %            Total
Foreign     Baee                                    Foreign      Bae
Locol    Foreign    Total   Exchange      Coata     Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange      Coats
A. Land Acquisition                       963.6         -    963.6                     16      22.8         -      22.8          -         16
B. Treatment Plsnt & Associated Works                                                                                          67           2
1. Intake Sarufia                       56.3        72.5   127.8         67          2        1.3        1.7      3.0
2. Canal Rehabilitation & Site          108.2         -     10.2         -           2       2.6        -        2.6                     2
3. Culvert from OND Canal to Site       123.2        1.7   124.9          1           2       2.9                 3.0          1          2
4. Treatment Plant                     1247.6    1,797.1  3,044.S        S9         46       29.8       42.6    72.2         58          48
S. Ancillary Structure                   79.9        4.6    84.6          6           1       1.9        0.1      2.0         6           1
Subtotal Treatment Plant & Associatd     1,614.2    1,875.9  3,490.1       54          53      38.3       44.5    82.7          64         63
Works
C. New Pipelineo
1. Primry Transmieion Mains             312.4      426.4   730.8         58         11        7.4       10.1    17.6         se          11
2. Secondary Tranamission Mains          69.7      122.3   192.0         64           3       1.7        2.9      4.6        64           3
Subtotal New Pipelinee                    382.1      648.6   930.7         59          14       9.1       13.0    22.1          W9         14
D. Distribution System Rehabilitation     130.4      228.8   369.2         64           5       3.1        6.4      8.6         64          6
E. Expansion of Service Connections        36.4       60.1    96.5         62           1       0.9        1.4      2.3         62          1
F. DOevelopent of SeveroaelSenitation      60.6      101.5   171.0         s9           3        1.6       2.4      4.1         59          3
G. Inrtitutional Development              113.0      183.4   29S.4         82           6       2.7        4.3      7.0         62          5
H. Project Prepwration nd                  20.0      262.7   272.7         93           4        0.6       6.0      8.5         93          4
Implementation Support
Total BASELINE COSTS                    3,329.1    3,251.1  6,5s0.3        49         100      78.9       77.1    158.0         49        100
Physical Contingencis                  138.0      193.0   331.0        58           5        3.3       4.6      7.8         S8           6
Price Contingencims                    201.4      336.3   537.7        63           8        5.6       6.6     12.0         64           8
Total PROJECT COSTS                     3,669.6    3,780.4  7,449.0        51         113      87.7       88.1   176.8          50        113
1/ Figwes may not add up due to rourading.



- 19 -
3.10     The project cost estimates are based on a five year implementation
period.  This is shorter than the regional disbursement profile of seven years
for similar projects, but attainable because of the turnkey arrangement of the
main contract, the treatment plant.
F. The Proiect Financing Plan
3.11     The project financing plan includes the proceeds of the credit, co-
financing from the Government of France and the Government of Japan, and
counterpart financing from the Government of Bangladesh. The proposed IDA credit
of US$80.3 million would finance 45.7% of the total project cost (excluding
taxes). The Government of France would finance US$31.3 million, equivalent to
17.8% of the total financing requirements. The Government of Japan would finance
about US$1.3 million of the project which would be administered by IDA.  The
remaining funds (US$62.9 million) will be provided by the Government of
Bangladesh and DWASA. The financing plan for the project is summarized in Table
3.2 below.
Table 3.2 Proiect Financing Plan (US$ Million)
The Goverment/    Government of    Japanese           Local
Dhaka WASA  IDA    rance  Government  Total  Foreign  (Excl.  Duties I
Amount    X  Mount   X    Amount   z  Amount   1  Aiount   1    Exch.ae  Taxes)  Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Land       24.5  100.0  -  -   -    -   -   -   24.5    13.9  -  24.5     -
B. Civil Works  14.8  18.7  64.2    81.3  -  -  -  -  79.0    44.9  40.1  22.1  11.8
C. Electrical i  23.1  41.8  0.9  1.6   31.3  56.6  -  -  55.3    31.5  32.2  -  23.2
Mechanical
D. Tecbnical  0.0    -  14.0   91.5  -  -  1.3  8.5  15.3  8.7  8.3  5.6     -
Assistance
E. Equipment  0.5   29.4  1.2   70.6  -  -  -   -   1.7  1.0  7.5    -      0.5
Total Disbursement  62.9  35.8    80.3   45.7   31.3    17.8  1.3    0.7    175.8  100.0  88.1  52.2  35.5
3.12     The proposed IDA credit would finance 63.5% of the project's foreign
costs while the French Government would finance 35.6%, and the Government of
Japan would finance the remaining 0.9%.  The IDA credit would finance intake
works and the pump station at Sarulia on the Lakhya River, the culvert from the
DND Canal to the treatment plant site and ancillary structures, civil works for
treatment plant, primary transmission and secondary distribution mains, system
rehabilitation institutional strengthening and all technical assistance with the
exception of the Water Resource Management Study. The French co-financing would
finance the foreign exchange costs of the equipment supply and installation of
the treatment plant. The Government of Japan financing will cover the consulting
services for the Water Resources Management Study. The Government counterpart
resources would finance customs duties and taxes, land acquisition, while DWASA
would finance the rehabilitation of the DND Canal and development of the Saidabad
Treatment Plant site.
3.13     The IDA credit would be made to the Government of Bangladesh on
standard IDA terms for a duration of 40 years including 10 years of grace. The
credit would be onlent to DWASA under a subsidiary loan agreement, and will be
repaid over twenty-five years, including five years of grace, at an interest rate
of 7.5%. The French Government financing will be on-lent to DWASA at the same
terms. Like past DWASA projects, the foreign exchange risk on the IDA credit
would be borne by the Government of Bangladesh. The execution of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between DWASA and GOB and the French Government and the Japanese
Government Agreements would be conditions of credit effectiveness.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Status of Preparation
4.1       Project preparation is significantly in advanced stage. Land has been
acquired for the treatment plant and the designs of the civil works for treatment
plant and ancillary works are in progress.   The contract for the supply of
equipment for treatment plant has been awarded. Detailed designs, bid documents,
and prequalification documents have been finalized for the Lakhya Pumping Station
and the intakes, primary and secondary distribution mains, and the culvert from
the DND canal to the treatment plant site, and have been reviewed by IDA and the
prequalification  of  contractors  for  these  works  is  in  progress.    The
rehabilitation of the DND canal and development of the treatment plant site being
financed by DWASA and GOB have been awarded and works are about to be completed.
4.2       Regarding  technical  assistance  and  institutional  strengthening,
contracts for the Management Operational Support (Twining) Program and the
Strategic Sanitation Program are ready to be awarded. Draft Terms of Reference
(TOR), letters of invitation (LOI) and shortlists have been prepared for the
Water Resources Management Study and construction supervision of the treatment
plant, and consultants are about to be appointed.  Bidding documents for the
program to contract out billing and collections are being finalized for IDA's
review and tenders will be invited shortly.   The first phase of the Leak
Detection and Rehabilitation Program and the Crash Meter Installation Program is
in progress. TOR and LOI for all other technical assistance have been prepared.
The Project Concept Paper (PCP) for the proposed project has been approved by
GOB.
B. Prolect Implementation
4.3       The project will be implemented by DWASA, which will be accountable
and responsible for meeting agreed project and operating objectives. With the
completion of the Third DWASA Project in March 1994, and experience in
implementation of ADB and Japanese funded projects, DWASA has demonstrated its
ability to satisfactorily implement medium sized civil works projects.  It is
estimated that the project will be implemented over a period of five years, which
is less than the average implementation period for similar projects in
Bangladesh. This is due to the turnkey arrangements for the installation of the
treatment plant equipment. To speed implementation after project approval, GOB
and DWASA have already completed work on the improvement of the DND Canal, to
introduce canal overflow structures for maintaining the canal operation level at
5 meters above current levels and the back fill of the Saidabad treatment plant
site.
4.4       Project implementation will give priority to the construction of the
surface water treatment plant, Phase 1 of the Leak Detection and Rehabilitation
Program, the Crash Meter Installation Program, and the management consultancy
services for the improvement of the operations and management of DWASA.  The
signing of the contracts for the Sanitation Program and the management operation
support (twinning) program would be conditions of credit effectiveness.



- 21 -
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.5       Details of land acquisition for the project are shown at Annex 9.1.
Land for the treatment plant is already owned by DWASA and a provision has been
included in the project cost for its value. Land acquisition necessary for the
conveyance route from the Sitalakhya River to the treatment plant site amounts
to a total of 6.1 acres. This includes 0.91 acres at the pump-house site, 1.55
acres for the right-of-way (ROW) for the culvert to the DND Canal, and 3.64 acres
for the ROW for the culvert from the DND Canal to the Saidabad treatment plant
site. A total of 37 small plots are involved. Five plots contain temporary sheds
and other temporary buildings that will be removed prior to construction.
Compensation has already been paid for the loss of property. A cadastral map is
available that details the canal routing in relation to the plots concerned. The
acquisition involved some involuntary resettlement. In view of the small number
of buildings to be removed, no full resettlement action plan was required. DWASA
followed IDA's resettlement guidelines in compensation for all project affected
people and appointed a local consultant to assist in providing compensation and
support to resettlers and monitor progress of payments by the District
Administrator.
4.6       The process of land acquisition is carried out by the Ministry of
Establishment at the direction of the Ministry of Land, following DWASA's
request. During negotiations, GOB confirmed that the acquisition of the 6.1
acres was completed and DWASA had possession of the land. Payment of Tk. 21.6
million was made to the District Administrator (DA) which included compensation
for loss of land and property on the site. GOB also confirmed that payment of
compensation to affected people would be completed a minimum of three months
prior to handing over of land to the contractors.
4.7       Access to the Saidabad treatment plant site is via a public road
through Jatrabari Point. The contractors for the site development component of
the project have constructed the access road from the existing all weather road
to the western side of the Saidabad site.
4.8       Along the DND Canal, rehabilitation of the embankment involved the
removal of a number of trees and temporary shacks where retail trading activities
take place. The contractor responsible for the rehabilitation facilitated the
removal of these sheds as part of the canal rehabilitation process. DWASA agreed
to pay a lump sum cash compensation to these shack owners for temporary loss of
income, and to cover relocation costs, in accordance with IDA resettlement
requirements.  A sturdy fence has been constructed on both sides of the DND
canal, as part of the contract to rehabilitate the canal. This fence is designed
to prevent access to the canal itself and thereby avoid pollution. Handpumps for
water supply, latrines, and several bridges will be provided along the DND Canal
in order to provide squatters who use the canal with alternative facilities. No
land acquisition is necessary as part of the DND Canal rehabilitation or as a
result of DWASA's use of the canal because the land and the canal belong to the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB). As part of the agreement between
DWASA and BWDB, the land will remain in the ownership of BWDB, although operation
and maintenance of the canal along the conveyance route will be the
responsibility of DWASA.   DWASA is required to continue to supply existing
irrigators, and extra pumps are planned for the pump station in order to carry
this out.



- 22 -
4.9       As part of the resettlement process, DWASA prepared a plan for impact
mitigation along the route of conveyance.   This plan included a map of the
location of the temporary shops to be removed, together with consultation with
the local people regarding the location of new handpumps, latrines and bridges,
and compensation to cover relocation costs and temporary loss of income to be
paid to the shack owners. Details of these plan were reviewed during appraisal
and were found to be satisfactory.
C. Proiect Management
4.10      The project will be managed by the Planning and Development Department
(PDD) of DWASA. The PDD will execute the project, and supervise and monitor all
contracts and maintain all the records including the original copies of all
contracts and purchasing documents.   A Project Director has already been
appointed from DWASA, who will have overall- responsibility for the project,
including the co-ordination of construction of IDA and French financed
components. In addition, the Project Director will also have responsibility for
the implementation of the technical assistance for the project.
4.11      To assist the Project Director in the management of the project,
construction supervision consultants will be appointed. The first will be for
the supervision of the construction of the Surface Water Treatment Plant,
including intakes and the culvert, for about forty eight months. The other will
be for the construction of the primary and secondary distribution system,
expansion of service connections and rehabilitation of the distribution system.
These consultants will report to the Project Director and will coordinate the
overall implementation including verification of compliance with specifications
for goods and works, commissioning of completed works, advice on training of
staff to operate the completed facilities and preparation of necessary documents
for the procurement of all equipment, and civil works.
D. Prolect Supervision
4.12      Project  supervision by IDA and  the French Government would  be
coordinated and agreed at the Project Launch Workshop, to be undertaken at the
beginning of project implementation.   IDA supervision of the project would
require about 95 staff weeks, of which about 20 would be needed in the first year
for review of project start-up, procurement, bid specifications, and consultancy
appointments. This will likely involve three supervision missions in the first
year, and two in the later years. Supervision would be coordinated with IDA's
resident mission staff in Bangladesh. Supervision during project implementation
would be provided by sanitary engineering and financial staff, and would focus
on financial management, construction administration review, procurement actions,
etc. However, in the first year, additional special expertise would be required
in areas like leak detection, management of utilities and operational
improvements and institutional restructuring.   A mid-term review would be
undertaken mid-way through project implementation, but no later than December 31,
1998 to assess project management, implementation status, including progress in
institutional reform including increased private sector participation, progress
against agreed performance indicators and to recommend proposals for any changes
in the project scope, costs, timetables and agree on any necessary corrective
actions. A tentative staffing and timing schedule of supervision missions is



- 23 -
given in Annex 9.5. Benchmarks for assessing progress at the mid-term review are
set out in Annex 9.6.
E. Proiect Reporting
4.13      Progress reports,  prepared by the PDD and provided monthly will
describe the work done on each of the components of the project to date,
detailing actual and anticipated progress, actual and estimated costs for the
work completed and disbursement from the credit with estimates in the Appraisal
Report.   The reports will highlight causes for delays, if any, and propose
measures to overcome them, and will anticipate any changes in the project
completion date, or the project costs. Details will be given of contract for
works, goods and services that have been awarded, invited or received during the
reporting period, with reasons for any changes made in the estimated
implementation schedule, quantities and costs.   Two copies of the progress
reports will be sent to IDA and the French Trade Commission in Dhaka within three
weeks of each reporting period.   Separate project reports on institutional
development components and consultant activities will also be provided as
specified in the TOR of these components. The format for these progress reports,
including pertinent information to be included in the reports, was agreed at
negotiations.   Within six months of completion of the project or the closing of
the credit, DWASA will prepare its part of the Implementation Completion Report,
with the assistance of the PDD.
F. Procurement
4.14      Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.3
below and details are provided in Annex 9.2.
Table 3.3 Procurement Arrangements ($ millions) /
Procurement Method
Proiect Element        ICB         NCB        Other      NBF2/       Total3|
Civil Works               68.2         7.8       3.0          -          79.0
(56.7)      (7.5)        -           -         (64.2)
Goods and Equipment        3.1        0.2          -         53.7        57.1
(1.9)       (0.2)        -           -         (2.1)
Consultancy Services        -          -         14.0         1.3        15.3
-          -        (14.0)        -         (14.0)
Land Acquisition            -          -           -         24.5        24.5
Total               71.3         8.0        17.0       79.5        175.8
(58.6)      (7.7)      (14.0)        -         (80.3)
1/ IDA amounts in brackets.
2/ Non Bank financed.
3/ Figures may not add up due to rounding



- 24 -
4.15      Civil Works:   The project includes about US$79.0 million in civil
works. About US$68.2 million of these works would be carried out on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB).  This represents civil works for the
treatment plant, transmission mains, intake and culvert from the DND Canal to the
treatment plant site. Procurement for the primary and secondary distribution
network will be undertaken through a "Supply and Lay" type of contract to avoid
delays and problems associated with procuring pipes separately. For all civil
works contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, local
contractors will be eligible for a margin of preference of 7h%. Civil works
totalling US$7.8 million would be procured under national competitive bidding
(NCB) procedures acceptable and satisfactory to IDA. These works relate to the
expansion of service connections, development of sewerage and sanitation schemes
and distribution system rehabilitation. These works represent small contracts
spread through the life of the project, and are unlikely to attract international
bidders.   GOB has already awarded the contracts for the development of the
treatment plant site and DND canal rehabilitation for an amount of US$3.0 million
under its own procedures and its own financing arrangements. A contract has
already been awarded for the supply of the electrical and mechanical equipment
for the water treatment and the civil works final design is now progress. The
civil works bidding documents, prepared in accordance with ICB procedures, will
be submitted for Bank review prior to bidding.
4.16      Goods:  There is a total of about US$57.1 million of equipment and
materials in the project, of which US$3.1 million will be procured following ICB
procedures.  These represent equipment and materials for the intake and pump
station, and miscellaneous equipment, including meters for service connection
expansion. For this procurement, local bidders will have a domestic preference
limited to the lesser amount of 15Z of the CIF price or the actual amount of
customs duties and import taxes. About US$0.2 million of the equipment will be
procured using NCB guidelines. Other equipment and materials would be financed
under the French Grant assistance.
4.17      Consultant and Contract Services: Consultancy studies and engineering
designs for about US$15.3 million will be carried out by consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to the
Association. These will be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines,
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency.
4.18      Land Acquisition:  Land estimated to cost US$24.5 million, including
the land for the treatment plant already in possession of DWASA, and right-of-way
(ROW) for other works was procured using Government procedures.
4.19      All civil works contracts in excess of US$300,000, all goods package
contracts in excess of US$200,000 and all consulting firm contracts in excess of
US$100,000 (US$50,000 for individual consultants) will be subject to prior
review. With respect to all consulting contracts, irrespective of value, prior
review will continue to be required for: (a) terms of reference; (b) single
source contracts regardless of value; (c) all consultant contracts and
assignments of a critical nature (for example because of environmental safety or
public health considerations) regardless of value; and (d) contract amendments
valued at more than US$100,000 (US$50,000 for individual consultants) equivalent,
or those that raise the total contract value above US$100,000 (US$50,000 for
individual consultants) equivalent.   All procurement will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1996) and the



- 25 -
Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents for Works, Goods and Consulting
Services. At least 10Z of all other contracts will be subject to ex-post review.
However, to ensure that adequate procurement procedures are being followed, the
first two contracts under NCB for works, irrespective of the amount, will be
subject to IDA's review.
G. Disbursements
4.20      Disbursements of the IDA credit proceeds will be on the following
basis:
(a) 100 percent (CIF) of total foreign expenditures and 95Z for local
expenditures (ex-factory) on civil works for the treatment plant,
culvert, intake, ancillary works, sanitation program;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures ex-factory, 100 percent for local
expenditures, and 65Z for other local expenditures procured locally
for all materials, equipment, miscellaneous equipment and machinery,
motor vehicles, water meters and training equipment;
(c) 100 percent of total expenditure for consultancy, advisory and
technical assistance services; and
(d) 100 percent of total expenditures for training costs.
4.21      In order to facilitate timely provision of funds for the project, the
Government would establish a Special Account in the amount of US$3.0 million with
Bangladesh Bank, for eligible expenditures under the project.  Disbursements
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for contracts for
works less than US$300,000, goods less than US$200,000, consulting firms less
than US$100,000 (or US$50,000 for individual consultants) and training less than
US$100,000 equivalent.  For all other contracts above these limits, including
single source (individual consultants), disbursements would be made on the basis
of standard documents. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained in the
PIU, and made available for review by IDA upon request.
H. Retroactive Financing
4.22      To  expedite  implementation  of  the  project,  the  Government  has
requested that advance procurement, contracting and retroactive financing be
permitted for some of the contracts. The estimated value of this retroactive
financing is US$2.0 million.   This would finance part E of the project,
consisting of: (a) Part I of the Leak Detection Program (para. 5.10) for the
procurement of equipment, materials and initial consulting services for leak
detection activities to commence; (b) the first phase of the Crash Meter
Installation Program, to be used for contractual services for meter installation
(para. 5.8(b)); (c) preparation of designs and bid documents for ancillary works;
and d) procurement of equipment and other services to support the program to
contract out DWASA's  services  (para.  5.8  (a)).   Advance  contracting  and
retroactive financing will be subject to the condition that the components are
eligible for IDA financing at the time of procurement and that the Bank
procurement guidelines should have been followed. Expenditures incurred during
the year after December 1995 up to the signing date will be eligible for
retroactive financing.



- 26 -
V. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
A. Implementing Organization
5.1       DWASA was established under the East Pakistan Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority Ordinance of 1963, as an autonomous body to provide adequate
and safe drinking water and sewerage facilities in the city of Dhaka.  DWASA
operates under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives (MLGRDC). Its functions are to construct, improve and operate water
supply and sewerage works, and other facilities to improve environmental
sanitation in the city. The Ordinance spelt out the extent of Government control
over the day-to day operations of DWASA by requiring that DWASA be guided on
matters of policy by such directions as the Government may, from time to time
give.  In addition to water supply and sewerage, DWASA was in 1989 given the
responsibility of operating Dhaka's stormwater drainage system. DWASA's service
area, which includes the city of Narayanganj, has been divided into seven
geographical areas for purposes of operation and maintenance.
B. Organization Structure and Management
5.2       The original WASA Ordinance stipulated that DWASA would have a Board
of Directors consisting of thirteen members, mainly officials of the Government.
This arrangement was however not efficient in that as government bureaucrats, the
Board members had no decision-making authority and deferred all policy decisions
to the Government, through MLGRDC. The Ordinance was later amended to revise the
Board composition and create an internal Board of Directors, consisting of three
people.  This internal Board operated along functional lines, e.g., Finance,
Engineering, Administration; and the incumbents were effectively managers of
DWASA, without any policy responsibility.   DWASA was headed by a Chairman,
appointed by the Ministry of Local Government and responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the authority.   Key decisions regarding staffing, investment
decisions, remuneration and tariff setting were however made by the Government
and DWASA effectively operated as a Government department.  Under the reform
program in the proposed project, GOB has enacted a new WASA Ordinance to
strengthen and streamline DWASA's Board, commercialize its operations, and give
and DWASA more autonomy. The new Board consists of seven members most of whom
have been has been selected from outside the Government. The objective of this
streamlining is to create a Board along the lines of commercial utilities.
Additionally, the Board's role on policy matters relating to corporate planning,
tariff setting, staffing and appointment of senior staff has been clearly spelt
in a Policy Statement, adopted by DWASA with the objective of separating of the
roles and responsibilities of the Government, the Board, and management. Under
the new structure, the Government's role will be limited to that of a
shareholder, setting the general policy environment within which DWASA will
operate, while the Board's overall responsibility would be the implementation of
the Government's policy. In addition, the appointment of the Chairman and senior
staff would be on the basis of recommendation of the management. The revised
WASA Ordinance was reviewed by IDA during preparation and found satisfactory.
A Policy Statement describing the functions and responsibilities of the new DWASA
Board shown at Annex 2.2, has been adopted.
5.3       DWASA's  present  organization  structure  is  divided  along  three
functional departments, viz., Administration, Engineering and Commercial. The
Administration Department provides the administrative support services, including



- 27 -
public relations. The Commercial Department handles the billing and collection
of revenues, and provides the accounting and financial control functions. The
Engineering Department is responsible for operating and maintaining the utility
systems and in implementing project. DWASA's current organization structure and
the proposed new structure are attached at Annex 10.1. Under the project, an
organizational study will be undertaken to identify the features essential to an
effective organization and set up an incentive system for DWASA staff.  This
study will be undertaken and the results implemented under the Twinning Program.
An additional organization change is the creation of profit and/or cost centers,
in order to introduce transparency and accountability in DWASA's operations. The
new structure will separate water production from distribution, and a transfer
price will be established between the two units.   The Twinning Program
Consultants will assist DWASA in finalizing the reorganization and in setting up
the accounting system and the staffing for each profit/cost center.
C. Operations and Maintenance
5.4       DWASA's operational performance is affected by several institutional
weaknesses. These include production and distribution inefficiency; inadequate
performance monitoring; inefficient billing and revenue collection practices; a
very high level of unaccounted-for water; poor institutional management and lack
of clear regulatory responsibility. Maintenance is carried out in response to
consumer complaints and component failures. Routine maintenance is not usually
planned or allocated adequate resources. Maintenance is also hampered by lack
of proper spare parts and procurement planning. Because much of the system is
over thirty years old, leakage is very common, leading to substantial water loss.
To improve operational efficiency, the Twinning Program will focus on improved
operations and maintenance, management efficiency, and implementation of improved
utility management practices. The Twinning Program will cover operations and
maintenance, billing and collection, metering, financial management and training.
Terms of Reference for this program are shown in Annex 8.1. The signing of the
contract for the Twinning Program Consultants will be a condition of
effectiveness.
5.5       Under the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project (Credit 1734-BD), a pilot
leak detection program was undertaken in two zones to identify physical leaks and
implement a program to rehabilitate the distribution system. A Consumer Survey
was also completed in May 1993 to identify and correctly classify all consumers,
and upgrade DWASA's customer data base. To improve systems maintenance, a Leak
Detection and Rehabilitation Program will be implemented under this project as
a follow-up to the program in the previous project (para. 5.10).  To further
improve operational efficiency, the reform program also includes actions to
establish and enforce accountability by requiring DWASA to meet agreed
operational and financial performance targets. These will be enforced through a
Performance Agreement to be signed -between DWASA and the Government which will
set out the operational, implementation and financial performance targets that
DWASA should achieve yearly. Some of the targets will include: (i) achievement
of agreed operating cost or revenue levels every year; (ii) reduction in
unaccounted for water to agreed levels every year; (iii) reduction in accounts
receivable to agreed levels each year; and (iv) implementation of an acceptable
consumer connection program.
5.6       To  further  improve DWASA efficiency,  a strategy  study will  be
undertaken in the project to assess options for private sector participation in



- 28 -
DWASA, and mobilization of private financing for its investment program. The
signing of a contract for the study will be a condition of effectiveness, and
implementation of the results of the study a dated covenant. Draft terms of
reference are shown at Annex 3.3.
D. Billing and Collections
5.7       Currently, about 110,177 of DWASA's 160,080 (about 69%) consumer
connections are metered. The remaining unmetered connections are billed on the
basis of plot size and property value, regardless of the amount of water
consumed. It is believed that the amount of actual consumption from non-metered
connections is significantly much higher than DWASA's estimates. DWASA carries
out meter readings on a bi-monthly basis, with half of the consumers billed in
one month and the remaining consumers billed in the following month. Billing
procedures have improved over the past five years, under initiatives undertaken
under the Third DWASA Project. However, more improvements are still required to
increase billing efficiency and reduce the level of un-billed water. Collections
have always lagged behind billings, and between 1990 and 1993, DWASA's revenue
collections were about 80% of billings, and accounts receivable arrears were
about 6.5 months of billings.  A major problem is irregular payments by the
Government for water supplied to Government departments and other public
corporations. Other problems include lack of an effective disconnection policy
and lack of a reliable information base on consumer accounts, which results in
some consumers not being billed.
5.8       Under the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project  (Credit  1734-BD),  a
Consumer Survey was undertaken to record and correctly classify all DWASA
customers. Using this information DWASA embarked on a program to disconnect
accounts over six months in arrears, implement computerized billing system and
update its billing records. This has resulted in some improvement in the level
of billing. This data base will also be used in the preparation of action plans
under the proposed project to improve billing and collection efficiency. The
programs and actions to be undertaken to improve billing and collection and
efficiency are as follows:
(a) contracting Out DWASA Services: As part of an efficiency drive to
improve billing and revenue collection, DWASA will commence a program
to contract out some of its services to local contractors. Details
of the program and contract outline are attached at Annex 2.4. The
contract calls for the reading of meters, preparation of bills,
delivery of bills and follow-up of defaulters in case of non-payment.
The program will start in two zones of DWASA's service area, which
were selected, among other things for potential revenue gains. The
experience gained in these two zones will be used for planning future
activities.
(b)  Crash Meter Installation Program:  To reduce unmetered consumption,
the project includes the implementation of crash program to install
meters in unmetered connections, to achieve a metering level of 95%
of its accounts by June 1998. The contract for the program has been
signed and work has started.
(c) Legislation to Reduce Water Loss: As part of the amendment to the
DWASA Ordinance, DWASA will be required to introduce regulations and



- 29 -
enact measures to reduce water loss, including penalties for obtaining
DWASA water illegally.   The measures have been incorporated into
DWASA's regulations, prepared under the revised Ordinance. A newly
formed unit called the System Monitoring and Water Prevention Circle
will be responsible for monitoring waste and illegal activities, and
enforcing penalties.
(d)  Reduction of Public Sector Arrears:  Of DWASA's total receivables,
arrears from government departments and public corporations comprise
-  about 21%.  Payment for these accounts are irregular, and accumulated
arrears adversely affect DWASA's cash flows.   The  Government has
agreed to take action to address the problem. The Government reduced
these arrears to no more than ninety days as a condition of
negotiations, and has now put in place mechanisms to address public
sector arrears including timely budgetary allocation of funds.
(e)  Billing  and  Collection  Performance  Targets.    As  part  of  the
performance objectives to be agreed between DWASA and the Government,
DWASA will be required to maintain its accounts receivables arrears
to no more than four months of its total billing by June 1998. This
will also be incorporated into the Project Agreement with IDA.
E. Unaccounted for Water
5.9       During a pilot leak detection and waste prevention program undertaken
in one operating zone, completed in 1991, it was estimated that, of the total
water produced by DWASA in that zone only 44% was billed.  The remainder was
attributed to administrative losses, (31%) and technical losses (25Z). The major
factors contributing to administrative losses were: (i) incomplete customer data
base;  (ii)    unmetered  service  connections;  (iii)  illegal  and  illegally
reconnected service connections; (iv) inaccurate and tampered meters; and (v)
wrong meter reading, faulty invoicing and rent seeking behavior by revenue
inspectors.   Technical losses were mainly caused by leaking pipes, service
connections, inoperational fittings, and overflow from tanks and pump stations.
Although reliable information is not available, DWASA's systems' losses are
between 45% to 50%.
5.10      The proposed project includes a comprehensive Leak Detection and
Distribution System Rehabilitation Program, to cover the remaining zones in the
DWASA service area. Results from the pilot program show that such a program will
reduce the level of unaccounted-for-water significantly.   The Leak Detection
Program will be undertaken in three phases.  Phase I is an Immediate Action
Program and Training for revisiting the pilot areas completed under the Credit
1734-BD, while Phase II would cover about 70,000 service connections, over a
period of three years, and Phase III would cover the remaining 80,000 service
connections.  The training to be undertaken in Phase I will consist of: (a)
preparation of maps and drawings of DWASA service area; (b) checking of available
instrumentation for performance, ordering of new instrumentation, and training
of staff in their operations and maintenance; (c) reporting leaks as originally
done in the service area to update the distribution network drawings; and (d)
analysis of results and updating of programs for infill, extension and
rehabilitation works.



- 30 -
5.11      The  first  phase  program  is  in  progress.    To  facilitate  the
implementation of the program, DWASA created the System Monitoring and Waste
Control Circle, whose responsibilities will be to coordinate all leak detection
activities, procure all required equipment, materials and services, and monitor
water use in DWASA service area and enforce measures to conserve water and reduce
wasteful water practices. The proposed program would reduce technical systems
losses. Terms of reference for the second and third phase activities are shown
at Annex 7.1. Together with other initiatives to reduce administrative losses
described above, it is expected that unaccounted for water will be reduced to 30%
by 2001.   Achievement of these targets of unaccounted for water will be
incorporated in the Performance Agreement to be signed between DWASA and GOB
(Annex 2.3).
F. Personnel Management and Training
5.12      DWASA's management and staff lack accountability, and do not have
incentives to perform duties efficiently and effectively. Management also lacks
the necessary skills and experience to manage and operate the institution, and
there are no clear institutional performance objectives and targets. DWASA's
staff is generally engineering oriented and the technical staff are of reasonable
quality.   There is, however a general lack of capability and weakness in
commercial and accounting section staff, in particular, revenue and meter
inspectors. In addition, DWASA is responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the Dhaka stormwater drainage system for which it has no technical staff.
5.13      As of January 1996, DWASA had a total staff of about 3,020 on a
permanent basis. This translates to a staffing ratio of about 20 employees per
1,000 connections, which would be considered high by most standards. However,
the staff/connection indicator does not provide a full picture of the staffing
situation in DWASA.   First, given the low cost and efficiency of labor in
countries like Bangladesh, labor tends to be substituted for capital, thus DWASA
is less capital intensive than other utilities in developed countries. Second,
in Dhaka, a lot of DWASA residential consumers live in apartment buildings where
consumption is not always individually metered; thus service to an apartment
building appears in DWASA's records as one connection. This limits the number
of connections and undermines the number of consumers. A more representative
indicator of staff efficiency would be the ratio of personnel costs to operating
costs.   This has been around 15% in DWASA, considerably lower than other
developing or developed countries.   While the project will not recommend a
reduction in staff, IDA will seek assurances that DWASA would only hire
additional staff based on needed expansion of service and scope of operations.
In addition, DWASA's Board will review its staffing structure on a regular basis
to determine required staffing levels.   This will be incorporated in the
Performance Agreement to be signed between the Government and DWASA.
5.14      To  improve  DWASA's  efficiency,  there  is  need  to  modify  the
organizational structure to rationalize staff responsibilities, introduce a
system of incentives to staff commensurate with their performance, and improve
their skills through appropriate training.   The following actions will be
introduced under the proposed project:
(a) the appointment of an experienced managing director and appropriately
skilled deputy managing directors from the private sector to head
critical units, e.g., commercial and finance; water production,



- 31 -
distribution   and   administration,   with -measurable   objectives
established for judging their performance. To attract staff with the
necessary skills and experience, these managerial positions will
initially be filled by local contract staff on fixed term
appointments, to be initially financed from the project, but gradually
transferred to DWASA. The Managing Director has been appointed. By
March 1997 DWASA shall appoint Deputy Managing Directors for Finance
and  Administration,   Technical  and  Planning   and  Development
Departments.
(b) provision of technical assistance under the project to help DWASA
improve its management and technical capabilities to improve
efficiency in operations. This technical assistance will be through
the management operational support (twinning) program. The twinning
arrangement would be rendered over a period of four years, but
renewable every year with long and short term personnel, whose
duration would be determined during implementation, to provide the
most effective transfer of knowledge to assist the Managing Director
and his deputies. A critical task of the program will be to develop
performance objectives on which management and staff performance would
be assessed, and which would form the basis for performance incentives
and penalties.  Terms of reference for the Twinning Program are at
Annex 8.1.   In addition, preliminary studies leading to further
privatization be undertaken in the project, with the objective of
signing of a contract by mid-term review of the project. Terms of
reference for the preparatory activities are at Annex 3.3.
(c)  a staff rationalization program to be carried out by June 1997 under
the Twinning Program to assess staff strength and weaknesses, and to
ensure that staff are re-assigned to areas with staff shortages; and
(d) training programs in various areas, with emphasis on the commercial
operations  of water utilities.    The training programs will  be
developed under the management operational support (Twinning) Program.
Additional training is being provided under the first phase of the
Leak Detection and Rehabilitation Program (para. 5.10). Included in
this is an incentive system to be financed by DWASA, to motivate staff
working on leak identification and rehabilitation. DWASA has already
approved an incentive system for the staff on the leak detection
program, in line with the proposals made by IDA.



- 32 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past and Current Financial Situation
6.1       DWASA's audited financial statements for FY92 to FY95 and projected
statements from FY96 to FY2001 are detailed at Annex 11.2 and summaries of the
past and current statements are shown in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1 Past and Current Financial Statements
Income Statement
FY92        FY93          FY94          FY95
('000)      ('000)        ('000)         ('000)
Total Revenue                  479,030      659,024       821,579        992,906
Direct Expenses                330,772      403,099       491,739        552,877
Administrative Expenses          66,740      86,661       123,547        145,390
Income before Depreciation       81,518    169,264        206,293        294,631
Depreciation                     115,701    117,927       140,669        126,303
Interest                         35,706    107,794        166,114        201,547
Other Income                      74,464     67,548        32,568        33,219
Net Earnings                       4,575     11,091       (68,923)       36,407
Balance Sheet
FY92       FY93          FY94          FY95
('000)     ('000)        ('000)        ('000)
Total Fixed Assets             5,190,929   6,116,086    7,021,588        8,000,197
Current Assets                 1,847,431   1,747,716    1,567,003        1,915,168
Total Assets                   7,038,360   7,886,802    8,588,591        9,915,365
Equity                         5,285,500   6,006,410    6,874,432        7,931,051
Long-term Liabilities           1,596,758   1,755,298    1,510,759       1,725,061
Current Liabilities               156,102     102,094       203,400        259,253
Total Equity/Liabilities       7,035,360   7,863,802    8,588,591        9,915,365
Debt/Equity Ratio                 23.20%      22.61Z        19.93%         17.76%
6.2       DWASA's past audited income statements show that between FY92 and
FY95, its total operating revenue increased by about 107% (i.e. 38% between FY92
and FY93, 25% between FY93 and FY94 and 21% between FY94 and FY96).   These
increases were partly due to tariff increases of 10% in October 1991 as an
adjustment against power cost increases, 15% in October 1992, and 10% in November
1993, and increased water production as a result of new tubewells commissioned
under the Third DWASA Project.   Despite these revenue improvements, DWASA's
performance was not altogether satisfactory.   Net profits  fluctuated from
marginal profits in FY92 and FY93; a loss in FY94 and a profit in FY95.  Electric



- 33 -
power costs (representing 56% of operating expenditures) increased by 83% mainly
due to increased pumping costs as a result of the drawdown of the groundwater
table in the service area. Interest charges also increased significantly during
the period, particularly in FY94, due to new loans incurred by DWASA.
6.3       DWASA's cash flow statements showed positive annual cash balances in
FY92, FY94 and FY95 and huge accumulated cash balances because:
(a) it did not service principal and interest due on its loans because of
lack of proper records in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). This left
DWASA with cash balances equivalent to the unpaid amounts (e.g., in
FY92, interest due according to the income statement was Taka 35.7
million, and interest actually paid, according to the cash flow
statement was Taka 15.0 million); and
(b) annual development grants disbursed by GOB and donor agencies for
investment programs, without regard to actual annual work programs to
be implemented, resulted in cash balances being carried forward, thus
enhancing DWASA's cash flow position.
These issues reveal the lack of financial accountability that exists in DWASA.
More importantly, they also reveal the lack of accountability and weakness within
the government establishment responsible for monitoring and enforcing payment of
actual debt service due. They also reveal weaknesses in audits, which should
highlight these issues. While accountability within DWASA would be addressed
under this project, the lack of proper debt service records in MOF, a systemic
problem affecting all Government agencies in Bangladesh, requires wider reforms
of public sector and civil service practices.
6.4       DWASA did not always meet the covenants agreed for the Third DWASA
Project (Credit 1734-BD) although overall, actual performance was close to the
agreed covenants, which were to achieve a rate of return on fixed assets of 5%
beginning in FY91 (DWASA's rate of return was 2.3% in FY92 and 4.7Z in FY93);
reduce accounts receivables arrears to six months of billings (DWASA achieved a
ratio of 6.35 months in FY92 and 5.9 months in FY93 and 4.0% in FY94); and meet
subsidiary loan obligations.   Outstanding debt service arrears were always
capitalized into new debt.
6.5       DWASA's erratic performance is due to a number of reasons, some of
which are:
(a) Inefficient operations: Despite high tariffs and low cost operations,
DWASA is an inefficient operator. These inefficiencies are passed on
to consumers in form inadequate service coverage, low quality supply
and high tariffs.
(b) Unaccounted for water: The level of unaccounted for water, estimated
to be as high as 50% (para. 5.9) reduces actual revenue substantially
and increases unit operating costs.
(c) Collections: DWASA was unable to collect all of its revenue billed;
the ratio of collections to billings fluctuated between 75% to 80Z
during the period. Some of the collection problems stem from consumer
resistance to pay for poor service, irregular payments by the



- 34 -
Government for service provided and lack of a reliable system for
arrears follow-up and disconnection.
DWASA however had adequate cash reserves to service its debt (para. 6.3). As a
condition of appraisal, DWASA paid GOB Taka 400 million in FY94 to reduce its
debt service arrears.
6.6       Under  the project,  initiatives  to be  taken  to  improve  revenue
performance include the following:
(a)  commitment by DWASA to achieve agreed levels of financial performance
and cost recovery. These performance objectives will be established
in the Performance Agreement to be signed between DWASA and the
Government. The performance indicators to be achieved are shown at
Annex 12, and include collections to billings ratios; debt service
coverage; receivables/billings and debt/equity;
(b) an agreement by GOB to grant autonomy to DWASA to adjust tariffs on
an annual basis, based on an agreed inflation index. This agreement
would be reflected in the Operating Policy Statement which would form
the basis for DWASA operations;
(c) a comprehensive leak detection program (para. 5.5) to reduce technical
water losses, the Crash Meter Installation Program (para. 5.8(b) to
reduce unmetered connections and the program to contract out billing
and collections to enhance revenues (para. 5.8(a).
B. Balance Sheet and Fixed Assets
6.7       DWASA's audited balance sheets for FY92 to FY95 are shown at Annex
11.2. DWASA's long terms assets include stormwater drainage assets which were
transferred from DPHE in 1989, and water and sewerage investments financed by IDA
credits, ADB loans, and Japanese grants. Over 90% of DWASA's outstanding loans
are from IDA. DWASA's debt to equity ratio was about 20:80 during the period in
review, which indicates that DWASA is low leveraged. This is due to the fact
that: (a) Government allocations to various DWASA investments are usually in form
of grants and equity; (b) apart from IDA and ADB loans, there are apparently no
onlending terms for other bilateral funds transferred to DWASA, which are shown
as grants in its balance sheet; and (c) the value of drainage assets transferred
from DPHE in 1989 was treated as equity in DWASA's accounts. Because of this,
the level of equity increased much faster than debt during the years in review.
DWASA's debt level is, however, high when compared to the level of its
operations.   In FY93,  total debt service was  42% of revenue.   With the
introduction of additional loans under proposed project, DWASA's debt obligations
will be higher.   Improvements in efficiency, reductions in water losses and
regular tariff increases will therefore be critical to generate more revenues and
improve asset utilization. These issues are being addressed under the project
through performance enhancements and agreed targets, tariff increases to enable
DWASA to cover its costs, including additional debt service.
6.8       DWASA's current ratio, which ranged from 11.8:1 in FY92 to 7.3:1 in
FY95 is high by any standards.  This ratio reflects: (a) uncollected revenue
arrears for water billed including arrears from Government departments some of
which have been outstanding for years; (b) a high level of stocks for materials



- 35 _
and consumables, e.g., pipes, valves, meters which were procured under previous
projects, but never used, and some of which are now unusable and obsolete; (c)
a high level of advances for materials, representing funds advanced to
contractors, which are not reconciled with contractor's payments; and (d) a low
level of accounts payable due to the nature of its operations (payables mainly
consist of outstanding amounts on power bills). Actions to be taken under the
project to address these issues are:
(a) agreement with the Government on a system of allocating adequate funds
to Government departments and public institutions to enable them to
pay water bills and arrears in time. This would be included under the
Performance Agreement whereby DWASA would be allowed to offset
outstanding public sector arrears with debt service payments due to
the government in case of continuous failure to make payments to
ensure that by June 1997, public sector arrears are no more than 90
days of billings.
(b) an assessment and evaluation of all stores and inventories by March
1997, and agreement to sell or dispose all mismatched, obsolete and
slow-moving stocks by December 1997.  These actions will be dated
covenants and defined in the Performance Agreement;
(c) an assessment of all receivables to identify all uncollectible arrears
by March 1997 and agreement to write off uncollectible amounts by
December 1997.   These actions will be defined in the Performance
Agreement; and
(d) under a program to improve DWASA's accounting system to be undertaken
under the Twinning Arrangement, a reconciliation of outstanding
advances and writing off uncollectible amounts.
C.  Current Water and Sewerage Tariffs
6.9       DWASA has separate tariffs for metered and non-metered customers.  The
metered charge (which applies to about 76% of its customers) is Taka 15.84 per
1,000 gallons for domestic consumers and Taka 51.48 per 1,000 gallons for
commercial and industrial users. Unmetered customers are charged on the basis
of the valuation of the property supplied with the connection. Currently, this
is 22.62% of the annual valuation of the property for residential, community and
industrial buildings, prorated on a monthly basis. The sewerage charge is 100%
of the water tariff for all water and sewer connected buildings. A reduced water
and sewer rate applies to properties with water supply but unconnected to a sewer
line that is within 100 ft.  Annex 11.3 shows current tariff rates and other
charges and proposed tariff structures.
6.10      DWASA's tariffs, which are currently regulated by the Government, do
not reflect DWASA's cost structure and are not designed to respond to changes in
DWASA's financial requirements.  Tariff increases have been irregular in the
past.   However,  since 1985, adjustments have been more regular, with GOB
authorizing tariff increases of 10%, 15% and 10% between FY91 and FY94, resulting
in a total increase of 39Z.  Even with these recent increases, which makes
DWASA's tariffs high by South Asia standards, DWASA is still unable to fully meet
its total costs. Tariffs do not properly reflect the cost of service provided
to consumers because: (a) they convey the wrong economic signals, since



- 36 -
inefficiencies and distortions (e.g., systems losses) are passed on to consumers;
(b) they do not give adequate guidance on whether there should be cross-subsidies
or the degree of such subsidies to the poor; (c) they do not provide enough
justification on the charges being applied to small, large, domestic or
commercial consumers; (d) they do not reflect externalities, (e.g., the cost of
treating pollution to the water supply and how this would be reflected in the
charges); and (e) being non-progressive, they encourage wasteful water
consumption practices, particularly among upper income and unmetered consumers.
6.11      To  address  these  concerns,  a  Tariff  Study was  completed  that
recommended a revised tariff structure. The new structure is progressive, and
would enable DWASA to address the needs of affordable water supply for the urban
poor and allow it to meet its financial requirements.   Implementation of the
revised system would be a dated credit covenant.   Tariff increases would be
included as part of the performance objectives, to be enforced under the
Performance  Agreement.    Agreement  has  also  been  reached  that  after  the
implementation of the revised structure, DWASA will be allowed to raise tariffs
annually by up to 5% as needed to reflect inflation, without Government approval.
A 10% tariff increase was implemented in FY94, as a condition of preappraisal.
D. Financial Proiections
6.12      DWASA's financial projections, and the assumptions used in developing
them are given in Annex 11.1 and 11.2. These projections are summarized below.
Table 5.2 Projected Final Statements
1996          1998          2000
Income Statement
('000)
Revenue                                1,081,711     1,518,116      2,045,500
Working Expenses                         760,374     1,005,909      1,365,934
Depreciation                             149,037       211,704        206,985
Interest                                 164,913       327,157        425,961
Net Earnings                              24,271         7,598         82,297
Balance Sheet
('000)
Total Fixed Assets                     9,903,488    12,969,815    13,629,465
Current Assets                        2,028,436      2,339,204     2,867,590
Total Assets                          11,931,924    15,309,018    16,497,055
Total Net Worth                        8,914,830    10,008,571    10,491,026
L.T. Loans                             2,731,510     4,950,945     5,500,320
Current Liabilities                      285,584       349,502        505,709
Equity/Liabilities                    11,931,924    15,309,018    16,497,055



- 37 -
6.13      A major objective of the project is to improve the operational and
financial performance of DWASA. The proposed strategy is to cover all costs of
operations, including debt service within a period of four years, by FY99.
Improvements in DWASA's financial performance will come about as a result of: (a)
regular and automatic tariff adjustments tied to the Bangladesh inflation index
to cover increases in operating costs, as agreed annually between GOB and DWASA
and reflected in the Performance Agreement; (b) efficiency gains from operational
and financial improvements expected under the reform program, and through the
Twinning Program; (c) increased revenue from additional sales volume generated
by the proposed project and other initiatives, including the program to contract
out billing; and (d) reduced water losses as a result of the Crash Meter
Installation Program, and the Leak Detection and Rehabilitation Program. The
proposed efficiency improvements, including estimated tariff increases will be
incorporated into the Performance Agreement (Annex 2.3), which will be reviewed
by IDA and GOB to ensure compliance by DWASA.
E. Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
6.14      DWASA has made some efforts to improve its planning capability and
management information systems over the last five years. Under the Third DWASA
Project, IDA assisted in this effort by helping to develop management information
systems and to improve efficiency. However, DWASA's systems are still inadequate
and further improvements are needed to help it accurately forecast its finances,
revenue and water demand, which are critical to its planning and financial
viability. Currently, budgetary control is very weak and needs to be improved
significantly. Improvements in planning, budgeting and financial reporting would
be introduced under the Twinning Program being undertaken is the project.
6.15      A set of operational and financial monitoring indicators developed
during project preparation are attached at Annex 12.1. These indicators will
constitute the basis for reviews by GOB and IDA on DWASA's financial and
operational performance during the period of project implementation. Particular
attention will be paid to the level of unaccounted for water; billings/accounts
receivable ratio; percentage of water connections with meters, and service
coverage.   These monitoring indicators will be included in the Performance
Agreement between DWASA and GOB, and will have the same legal standing as
covenants in the Project Agreement.
F. Accounts and Audits
6.16      Although the WASA Ordinance specified that DWASA would maintain a
single entry accounting system, DWASA has now adopted a double-entry accrual
based commercial accounting system, as required under previous IDA credit
covenants. The system is however not fully efficient to allow DWASA to operate
as a well managed commercial concern. First, the system is still manual, and
financial statements are prepared only once a year and seem to be geared mainly
to fulfilling IDA and GOB reporting requirements rather than as a financial
management tool. Under the project, the financial management system would be
improved to provide financial results promptly on a monthly basis and at
operational unit level. DWASA will first conduct a full review of its system,
prior to the appointment of the Twinning Program Consultant as a basis for the
implementation of a computerized improved information and accounting system that
facilitates the preparation of a balance sheet, profit and loss statement,



- 38 -
sources and application of funds statements, and other reports necessary for
DWASA's financial management, on a monthly basis throughout the financial year.
Terms of Reference for the review were discussed during appraisal and found to
be satisfactory. Implementation of the new system will be undertaken under the
Twinning Program.
6.17      Currently there are three levels of audits in DWASA:
(a)  Internal Audit:  This is mainly an integrated function associated with
the approval procedures for payments, and matters such as financial
authority  limitations  for  senior  officers.    It  does  not  check
inconsistencies in accounting systems, cash collections, billing
procedures, or advances to contractors.
(b)  Government Audit:    This  is  a compliance  audit  to  ensure  that
Government authority levels have not been exceeded, that procedures
are carried out as directed, that pay scales are followed, etc. This
audit, normally carried out by the Comptroller and Auditor General
Bangladesh (Directorate of Audit) also reviews project specific
accounts to ensure that the project funds are used for the purpose for
which they were approved; and
(c)  External Audit:    Under  the old WASA Ordinance,  the  Government
appointed an external auditor, normally a public accounting firm. The
auditors produce a long-form report, which in other countries would
be regarded as management letter. Under requirements from previous
IDA credits the auditors also provide a separate opinion on DWASA's
Statement of Expenditure Accounts and Project Accounts. However, the
reports are of limited acceptability as they are not based upon
accepted international accounting and auditing standards.
6.18      The above arrangements will continue under the proposed project, and
the external audit would be enhanced by requiring that DWASA appoint auditors of
acceptable quality on a three year contract. To ensure that audited statements
are prepared in time, an agreement will be sought with GOB to have the statements
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year, i.e., December
31, each year. Beginning in FY97, the authority for appointment of auditors and
remuneration will be delegated to DWASA Board.



- 39 -
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Proiect Benefits
7.1       The proposed project would introduce the first primary water treatment
plant in Dhaka and would therefore provide urgently needed safe water to the
area, relieving current water shortages, particularly to areas that are currently
not served by piped water. The project, when in full operation will supply 223
million cubic meters (50 IMGD) of potable water, equivalent to the consumption
requirements of 2.3 million people.   This will be the joint contribution of
additional capacity provided by the Saidabad treatment plant and the loss
reduction  activities.    The  economic value  of  this  additional  supply  is
considerable because it will reduce costs and allow an increase in consumption
by low income groups. These groups pay as much as Tk. 27.00 (US$0.675) per cubic
meter for water purchased in small volumes and consume as little as 30 lpd
(liters per capita per day), while the current DWASA price of water for
residential connection is Tk 3.49 (US$ 0.09) per cubic meter, and consumption of
the population served with direct residential connections, although low, is about
90 lpd.
7.2       The population of Dhaka as a whole will benefit from the additional
supply since it currently consumes an average of 90 lpd. The economic price of
this consumption is nearly Taka 15.00 (US$0.375) per cubic meter. The value of
the additional supply is therefore significant, as expected in a large and
growing city with relatively low consumption due to supply restrictions, large
water deficits, low coverage, and high costs for those without direct water
service.
7.3       Without the proposed project, water shortages would become more
critical, and it is estimated that, with the current population growth of the
City of Dhaka (estimated at 4%) per capita consumption in Dhaka would have to
decline and water supply coverage for the service area would drop from the
current 65% to about 45% by the year 2001.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Least-Cost Solution
7.4       The economic analysis of the project is shown at Annex 13.1  The
economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 22%. Net benefits amount
to Tk 4,823.93 million (US$120.60 million) which are more than 60% of the project
costs. This means that even if costs increase by 60%, the project will still be
economically feasible at a 10% discount rate.  Moreover, if only 60% of the
estimated benefits are obtained, the project is still economically feasible. The
main factor affecting project feasibility is the value of water since, as
mentioned previously, the willingness to pay is substantial and the estimates
used may be conservative, given the critical water supply situation in Dhaka and
its possible development in the coming years.   It must be noted that the
population growth estimates may also be conservative for a country with a large
rural population, few medium or large cities and high rural to urban migration
rate.
7.5       The proposed project represents the least cost solution and best
alternative. Four options were considered, which included the installation of
additional deep tubewells; the conjunctive use of groundwater and surface water
and two surface water treatment options. Because of the decline in the water



- 40 -
tables in the Dhaka area which has increased abstraction costs and limited the
availability of ground water in the Dhaka area, the continued use of groundwater
was not feasible as a solution to provide the required equivalent of the 50 mgd
water treatment plant (paras. 2.13 to 2.16). The other surface water treatment
options (plant at Buriganga River) were found to be to costly because of the need
for additional land acquisition; the need for river crossing; and pollution
problems on the Buriganga River.
7.6       It must be noted that the benefits of the project come from both the
increased capacity and the loss reduction activities. Capacity expansion itself,
that is, without reduction of losses, would be an economically marginal
investment.  Its net present value would be US$67.5 million (at 10% discount
rate) and its IRR is 11.9%.   Although loss reduction activities are highly
profitable in economic terms, with a net present value of US$ 18.5 million, by
themselves, they do not resolve the problem of rapidly growing deficits in any
significant manner. Furthermore, even though the IRR is higher for the loss-
reduction program, the net present value of the overall project (the first order
condition in this case) is more than six times greater.
7.7       A sensitivity  analysis of the project shows that if total investment
costs increase by 10%, the economic rate of return is reduced to 19.5%, while a
reduction in revenue of about 15% (resulting from inadequate reductions in
systems losses) reduces the economic rate of return to 17.8%. The rate of return
in both cases is above the 12% marginal cost of capital discount rate deemed
acceptable reasonable for such projects.
C. Fiscal Impact
7.8       The project's fiscal impact is expected to be positive.  Currently,
the Government implicitly subsidizes DWASA's net losses through the non-servicing
of debt charges by DWASA. Since the objective of the project is to reduce these
losses, this implicit subsidy will be eliminated. In addition, GOB charges a 15%
tax on DWASA water and sewerage revenues.   Since the project will increase
DWASA's revenues, the net revenue flows to the Government over the life of the
projects asset will be positive. The project will, therefore, not distort the
Government's budget priorities.
D. Impact on Urban Poor
7.9       The urban poor will benefit from this project through reduced costs
for water.   Currently the poor pay a high price for small volumes of water
purchased daily. Access to direct connections substantially reduces the cost of
water and increases their consumption.   Benefits to this income group would
include improved sanitation services from the sanitation component under the
project, although this is difficult to quantify. It is estimated that about 45%
of the people in Dhaka are below the poverty line. The project would serve an
additional 500,000 people, and reduce suppressed demand over the DWASA service
area.  It has been estimated that the additional water supplied would serve
250,000 people below the poverty line.
7.10      The provision of water through house connections to this income group
would also have considerable impact of freeing the urban poor, particularly women
from the task of carrying water from public standposts. The introduction of a



- 41 -
progressive tariff structure under the project would have the added benefit of
cross-subsidizing the poor, thus ensuring equity in the availability of water
supply.
E. Environmental Impact
7.11      An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the project was carried
out by BCEOM (French Engineering Consultants) with local partners EPC
(Engineering and Planning Consultants Ltd.) during the period February-April
1994.  A Draft Final Report is available, dated April 1994.  Details of the
analysis are provided in Annex 14.1. The consultants specifically investigated
the impact of the 50 IMGD increment which would be supplied to the DWASA system
from the Sitalakhya River through the first phase Saidabad Treatment Plant, yet
were mindful that future additional increments of treatment plant investments (up
to a total of 200 IMGD) are expected at the same site, and raw water conveyance
is expected to be located along the same route.   Key environmental impacts
identified include the following:
(a) for raw water quality: positive impacts through continuing monitoring
of raw water quality at source and long-term protection of water
quality, through restriction of industrial discharges;
(b) for raw water intake and transmission, construction and operation:
some possible long term effects on river flows during the dry season;
land based effects along the transmission alignment (both physical and
social), short-term construction and nuisance effects;
(c) for surface water treatment plant construction and operation: long-
term physical and social effects at the site, short-term construction
nuisance; and
(d) for treated water distribution network: short-term construction
nuisance, especially traffic disruption, long-term impacts on public
health and disposal of wastewater.
7.12      Positive impacts include the provision of a 50 IMGD increment of
treated surface water supply to the DWASA system, planned conjunctive use of
ground and surface (thus reducing groundwater overpumping), and improved
environmental management and monitoring of the water sources as a result of the
Water Resources Management Study to be undertaken under the project.
Commencement of the implementation of the results of this study will be a dated
credit covenant. Positive impacts will be strengthened by the concurrent program
of leak detection and rehabilitation which will enable greater pressures to be
maintained in the distribution system and system integrity to be improved, with
greater amenity and public health benefits.  The treated surface water is to be
supplied to areas of the city where groundwater drawdown is most severe, thus
allowing the groundwater resources to recover from overpumping.   Potential
negative impacts of the project include: (i) the increased discharge of
wastewater to the shallow surface aquifer through (a) household on-plot
sanitation facilities, (b) the existing sewerage system, and (c) surface drainage
channels; (ii) further growth in urban development (supported by the increased
availability of water supply through the project); and (iii) necessary
restriction or regulation of industrial and other discharges along a stretch of
the Sitalakhya River in the vicinity of the raw water intake (to be further
investigated in the water resource management study). Mitigation measures are



- 42 -
being incorporated in the project to reduce or eliminate the potential negative
impacts associated with necessary fencing of the DND Canal, including the removal
and relocation of shacks used by small businesses, the removal of domestic and
commercial washing points along the canal, and the production of large volumes
of sludge. During negotiations. IDA and GOB agreed on the establishment of an
environmental cell within DWASA to monitor water qualitV and advise on
environmental issues, as a credit covenant.
F. Affordability
7.13      Surveys  conducted during project  preparation  indicated  that  the
present tariffs are considered affordable for both residential and industrial
use, being between 2.8% of monthly income for consumers with an average income
of between Taka 1,000 and 3,000 to 1.0% for consumers with an average income of
over Taka 20,000. The critical test for affordability is however, the low income
population. Using the minimum wage of Taka 1,400 per month and assuming a per
capita consumption of 30 lpcd in a family with 6.5 people, the cost per month
would be Taka 21.10 representing 1.5% of the minimum wage.   Even with the
expected tariff revisions under this project, the monthly cost of water would
still be below the 5% to 7Z percentage considered standard in other countries.
At a consumption of 30 lpcd, and if the current income tariffs is doubled the
water bill would be below 5% for all consumers except those with a monthly income
of Taka 900.00.
G. Proiect Risks
7.14      The main risk of this project is delays in implementation of the
various components of the project, causing postponement in overall project
completion. DWASA has adequate experience in the implementation of World Bank
financed projects, and with the assistance of consultants for construction
supervision, the proposed project should be implemented without major delays.
DWASA's experience was evident under the Third DWASA Project (Credit 1734-BD),
in which major civil works were completed before the original closing date. In
addition, the main civil works under the project will be contracted before Board
discussion of the IDA credit. This should help mitigate some of the risks of
delays. With its own financing, GOB has already commenced the implementation of
two components critical in the project to speed implementation.
7.15      The other major risk is the possibility that the Government and DWASA
may not follow through with the reforms under the project, due to political
constraints, and possible resistance to reforms by major interest groups. To
minimize this risk, IDA's project processing was preceded by continued policy
dialogue with the Government. The risk was approached by requiring the taking
of upfront action on the reform programs as a means of demonstrating commitment.
The National Cabinet has approved a program of reform. The Government is in the
process of amending the regulatory framework, recruiting private sector managers,
and has started the Leak Detection program. Annual comprehensive reviews and a
mid-term review of project progress against specific performance objectives would
provide opportunity for corrective action if necessary.



- 43 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1            During negotiations, the following was agreed with DWASA/GOB:
(a)  to carry out resettlement activities in accordance with IDA's
resettlement and rehabilitation guidelines (para. 4.5);
(b) the content and timing of the mid-term review, including
benchmarks for assessing progress against objectives (para.
4.12);
(c) format for progress reports, including information to be provided
in the reports (para. 4.13);
(d) carrying out a strategy study to assess privatization options and
commencement of the implementation of the results of the study
by February 28, 1998 (para. 5.6);
(e) by June 1998, maintain its accounts receivable arrears to no mote
than four months of its total billings (para. 5.8(e));
(f) by June 1997, appoint the Deputy Managing Director for Finance
and Administration, Technical and Planning and Development (para.
5.14(a));
(g) by June 1997, carry out a staff rationalization program to assess
staff strengths and weaknesses (para. 5.14(c));
(h) establish a system to reduce public sector arrears and maintain
them at no more than 90 days of public billing (para. 6.8(a));
(i) conduct an assessment of stores and inventories by March 1997 and
dispose off all mismatched, obsolete and slow moving stocks by
December 1997 (para. 6.8(b));
(j) conduct an assessment of all receivables to identify all
uncollectible arrears by March 1997, and write off uncollectible
amounts by December 1997 (para. 6.8(c));
(k) DWASA to have its records accounts and financial statements
audited and furnish to IDA copies of such audits within six
months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 6.18);
(1) commencement of the implementation of the results of the Water
Resources Management Study by January 31, 1998 (para. 7.12); and
(m)  establishment of an environmental cell within DWASA to monitor
water quality and advise on environmental issues by March 31,
1997 (para. 7.12).



- 44 -
8.3            The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between DWASA and
GOB to cover the onlending terms of the credit to DWASA (pars.
3.13) and the signing of a Performance Agreement between DWASA
and GOB, to cover performance indicators to be achieved by DWASA
(para. 6.6(a));
(b) the signing of the contracts for the sanitation Program and
Twinning Program, (para. 4.4);
(c) commencement of the strategic study to assess private sector
options (para. 5.6); and
(d) execution of the French and Japanese Grant Agreements (para.
3.13).
8.4            With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
will constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 51.0 million (US$80.3
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the People's
Republic of Bangladesh.



Annex 1.1
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Supply and Demand
Proiect Area
1.         DWASA' a service  area  includes  Dhaka City  and  the  township  of
Narayanganj, located to the south-east of the Dhaka metropolitan area. DWASA's
service area is bounded by the Tongi River in the North and the Balu River in the
East, the Lakhya River in the South East and the Buriganga River in the South-West.
For purposes of the proposed project, the relevant area has been defined as a part
of the Dhaka Statistical Metropolitan Area, which in turn is part of Greater Dhaka.
It comprises the present urbanized area which is also the Dhaka WASA Service Area,
and includes Dhaka City, Narayanganj, and two suburban areas, North and South. The
area has been divided into 36 elementary urban zones (EUZ), according to current
land use patterns. The population of each of the 36 EUZs was projected from the
results of the 1981 census, and updated during the 1993 census.
Population
2.          Between 1974 and 1981, total population in Dhaka City increased by over
6Z per annum.  In 1981, the population of Dhaka was 2.3 million people.  This
increased to 3.5 million in FY91. Population growth rates for the sub-urban areas
are not very reliable. However, detailed population estimates for each EUZ were
prepared on the basis of: (a) the existing land use (i.e. agriculture, commercial,
industrial, etc.); and (b) the expected land use patterns in future by taking into
account the possible extension of housing areas, the present population density and
the rate of urbanization. Population projections for the years 1994, 2000, 2010
and 2020 were prepared and are summarized below in Table 1.
Table 1: Population Proiections
1981     1991       1995      2000       2010       2020
Total Study Area   2,878,180   4,816,387   5,647,991   6,778,340  9,261,394   12,618,842
Dhaka City      2,273,357   3,804,140   4,355,216   5,025,655   6,174,268    7,172,236
Narayanganj      197,733    252,977    313,394    414,523    598,621  785,069
Suburban (North)  120,615    246,888    330,258    465,427    902,990    1,349,409
Suburban (South)  286,474    512,381    649,123    872,736   1,585,515    2,910,328
The projections shows that the population of the DWASA service area will grow to
6.8 million, and 12.6 million by the years 2000 and 2020 respectively. The higher
growth rates will be in Narayanganj and the suburban zones north and south of the
city, rather than in Dhaka City itself. A large percentage of this population will
continue to live in slum areas with minimum water service and poor housing. These
estimates seem reasonable even conservative, given probable rural-urban migration
rates in a country with a large rural population and a growing industrial base.
This growth will add pressure for DWASA to increase system coverage.
Coverage
3.           It is estimated that 3.53 million people (65% of the population), are
served by the DWASA system through direct household connections. Since the number
of residential connections was 130,143 (June 1994), the average number of persons
per connection is about 26; there are 3 to 4 households per connection, on average.



Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 8
This is high for urban standards. Actual coverage is difficult to estimate because
of the substantial volume of floating population and slum dwellings. The meaning
of service coverage is in itself particular to the characteristics of Dhaka.
Coverage would be best defined in terms of access; that is, in terms of providing
the non-connected population with access to potable water not necessarily through
household  connections.    The  1,680  stand  posts  (street  hydrants)  still  in
operation'  are estimated to supply water to 300,000 people.   The remaining
population - 1.6 million people - use "neighboring" connections both legal and
illegal, purchase water in small volumes from other users and DWASA trucks, and use
hand pumps in fringe areas. In this context, community stand posts and other forms
of delivery to irregular holdings could be part of DWASA's strategy to increase
coverage (access).
Level of Consumption
4.             Current per capita production from DWASA sources, using June 1994
data, is 136.45 lpd. Assuming 34% physical losses (estimated as shown in para 12),
per capita consumption would be 90.05 lpd. However, DWASA supplies only a small
fraction of non-domestic (industrial, commercial, government institutions)
consumption.   Private deep tubewells (DTWs) supply the bulk of these sectors'
consumption. For a city like Dhaka, consumption of the non-domestic sector may be
as much as 24 million m for each million peog1e. This would amount to 130 million
m3 of which DWASA supplies only 13 million m . This implies an additional 59 lpd
as consumption by the non-domestic sectors not presently supplied by DWASA.
Therefore, total estimated consumption would be 149 lpd. This is still low for a
city like Dhaka taking into account its climatic conditions and the fact that it
is the country's main commercial and industrial center as well as the location of
all national government institutions.
5.          Average consumption for the population with direct connections is
102.18 lpd; for the non-domestic sectors combined; consumption from DWASA sources
is the equivalent of 6.55 lpd. The 300,000 people using stand posts consumed 62
lpd (assuming that 1,680 stand posts deliver 18,630 m3 daily2).  The remainder of
the population (not connected), 1.6 million people I consume 46.3 lpd, assuming that
they "recover" 10% of production from the system . The weighted average of these
values is 90.05 lpd.  It is estimated that I million slum dwellers consume an
average of 30 lpd.4
1 According to some accounts DWASA has attempted to close stand posts, as
regular connections are installed, because it cannot control their use. The
government paid Tk 14.02 million (US$ 350,500) for water consumed from stand
posts in 1993-94.
2On the basis of 2,500 gallons per day per post.
3 These estimates are based on a total production reported by WASA of 740.9
million 1/day (June 1994 MIR) and estimated population of 5.43 million.
4 UNICEF, Study to formulate a national policy on water, sanitation and
hygiene in urban slums and fringes. Dhaka, May 1994.



Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 8
Industrial and Commercial Consumption
6.          Private companies mainly use their own tubewell installations for their
water supply needs. Currently, industrial and commercial consumers connected to
DWASA represent only 3,170 connections (i.e. about 2Z of total connections). In
FY93, industrial and commercial consumption represented 11X of total water
consumption, and contributed about 28Z of the total revenue.   However, future
industrial consumption from DWASA water is likely to be influenced by the
government policy concerning groundwater abstraction by industries, which is
affecting the levels of the water table.  In this context, legislation already
exists to discourage industrial and commercial users from excessive groundwater
abstraction,  through a levy on tubewells based on tubewell sizes.   However,
enforcement is lax and most industrial and commercial consumers continue to use
tubewells without the payment of the levy. The Water Resources Management Study
to be undertaken under the project will recommend measures and legislation to
regulate water abstraction by industrial and commercial users.
Demand Proiections
7.          As for any other commodity, demand growth for potable water services
is a function of market size (population) growth, consumer's income growth and
prices.  The effect of each depends on its elasticity which measures consumers
response  to changes  in each variable.    There  are no  estimates  of  demand
elasticities for water in Dhaka, and they are difficult to estimate because actual
demand is unobservable due to permanent supply restrictions, and adequate data is
not available. It is evident, however, that - at current prices - demand is far
larger than supply.
8.          If we consider at least two markets: low income and other income
consumers, there may be a decline in consumption by the latter due to an increase
in the tariff, as waste is reduced. For the low income group, this effect is small
due to their already low consumption; however, the relevant impact for this group
is related to service coverage: an increase in coverage normally implies a
substantial reduction in cost for the newly connected customer and therefore a
significant increase in consumption. As shown above, consumption per capita from
direct connections is higher than from stand posts and the latter is higher than
per capita consumption for the population without connection.   The evidence is
overwhelming with respect to the high cost of water to the urban poor when they do
not have a direct connection. In the case of Dhaka this could be as much as eight
times the average tariff.
9.          The implication of these arguments is that, under the particular
circumstances of the Dhaka water supply system - especially in the absence of the
rationing effect of an adequate tariff, population and service coverage become by
far the main factors affecting any changes in water requirements in the near
future.   That is, the level of consumption (consumption per capita) is not a
function of price and income but of available supply; therefore, projected demand
depends on assumed consumption per capita since for all realistic prices, currently
and in the near future, there will be excess demand.



Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 8
10.          If per capita consumption is approximately 156 lpd currently5 and is
expected to increase by 1% in the coming years due to the effect of increased
coverage and higher incomes, demand would be as shown in Table 2. These estimates
should be interpreted with caution because, in economic terms, at current low
tariffs, demand is substantially higher than consumption.   Therefore,  for all
probable increases in the water tariff, available increments in supply will be
quickly exhausted. At current prices, demand is almost twice as the current level
of consumption. If deficits shown in Table 2 are not met, per capita consumption
will have to decline due to the high rate of population increase. In Table 2, it
is assumed that per capita consumption stops increasing at 166 lpd in 1999; this
is to reflect rationing either through increased tariffs, scheduled cut-offs, or
just lack of water as growing per capita consumption cannot be sustained due to the
massive investments that it would require.
Table 2: Dhaka. Water Supply and Demand Proiections 1994-2020
Per capita  Projected                    Available                          Current
icar  PopuLation Consumption   Demand   ------> Deficit <------  SuppLy  Losses    Production  Capacity
Lpd      m3/yr        m3/yr     m3/s     m3/yr      rn/yr       m3/yr     m3/s
1994  5,427,513    150   297,156,329  (43,287,864)  (1.37) 253,868,465  130,780,724  384,649,189   13.23
1995  5,647,991    153   315,412,077  (41,582,683)  (1.32) 273,829,394  141,063,627  414,893,021   14.27
1996  5.857.872    156   333.675.526  (41.922.009)  (1.33) 291.753.517  143.699.493  435,453.010  14.97
1997  6,075,552    159   352,996,491  (56,888,445)  (1.80) 296,108,047  139,344,963  435,453,010   14.97
1998  6,301,321    162   373,436,208  (72,973,631)  (2.31) 300,462,577  134,990,433  435,453,010   14.97
1999  6,535,480    166   395,059,455  (90,242,348)  (2.86) 304,817,107  130,635,903  435,453,010   14.97
2000  6,778,340    166   409,739,963  (96,213,796)  (3.05) 313,526,167  121,926,843  435,453,010   14.97
2001  6,993,243    166   422,730,543 (100,495,316)  (3.19) 322,235,227  113,217,783  435,453,010  14.97
2002  7,214,960    166   436,132,982 (105,188,695)  (3.34) 330,944,287  104,508,722  435,453,010  14.97
2003  7,443,707    166   449,960,338 (110,306,991)  (3.50) 339,653,348  95,799,662  435,453,010   14.97
2004  7,679,705    166   464,226,084 (115,863,676)  (3.67) 348,362,408  87,090,602  435,453,010  14.97
2005  7,923,186    166   478,944,116 (130,581,708)  (4.14) 348,362,408  87,090,602  435,453,010  14.97
2010  9,261,394    166   559,836,695 (211,474,287)  (6.71) 348,362,408   87,090,602  435,453,010  14.97
2015 10,810,211    166   653,460,221 (305,097,813)  (9.67) 348,362,408   87,090,602  435,453,010  14.97
2020 12,618,042    166   762,740,750 (414,378,342) (13.14) 348,362,408   87,090,602  435,453,010   14.97
Capacity and Production
11.          More than 95Z of DWASA's installed capacity is comprised of Deep
Tubewells (DTW). In recent years, DWASA has been improving this system through
rehabilitation and replacement of DTWs; capacity has also been increased
significantly since the BCEOM Study was completed (1992).   The main problem,
however, is the status of the distribution network. The BCEOM Study surveyed the
different components of the network and found that in general the network is
inadequate for the size of the system and is in precarious condition; physical
losses between 30 and 50 percent were found depending on location, age of the
network, maintenance, and water pressure. According to DWASA officials, some
segments of the network are in such poor condition that they are no longer
maintained; instead they must wait to be replaced when they break down
completely. The Leak Detection and Waste Prevention Programme investigated two
5 Per capita consumption from the system is 66% of production, or 90.05 lpd;
59 additional lpd are consumed from non-WASA sources, for a total of 149.05 lpd
currently.



Annex 1.1
Page 5 of 8
small segments of the system and found numerous problems associated with
materials and installation of pipes and fittings throughout the network.
Table 3: Dhaka, Water SuppLy InstaLled Capacity
Deep TubeweLLs    Chandnighat   Narayanganj  Private DTWs  Total
Year
No.        m3/s         m3/s       m3/s        m3/s         m3/s
1991              140        7.280         .208       .139                    7.627
1992-93           166'       8.632         .208       .139                    8.979
1993-94           190b       9,880         .208       .139          3.0      13.227
1995             210b        10.920        .208       .139         3.0       14.267
1996              210        10.920        .527       .527         3.0       14.974
* DWASA, Annual Report 1992-93 ; b DWASA PLanning Division; C Wasa's estimate is 8.974 (June 1994 MIR).
12.        Table 3 shows the system's capacity changes since 1991 up to 1996.
Currently, there are 190 DTWs in operation and 20 under construction which,
together with the surface water treatment plants at Chandnighat and Narayanganj
and an estimated 3.0 m /s from private DTWs, amount to a total available capacity
of 14.267 m3/s  (271 IMGD).6 for 1995.   Expansion of the Chandnighat and
Narayanganj plants increased capacity to 14.974 m3/s in 1996.7
13.         DWASA reported production was 8.25 m3/s during 1993-94 of which 51.5%
was billed. This production can only be expanded marginally due to limitations
in the distribution system; and increased supply to the current network will
increase  losses  significantly.    According  to  the  Leak  Detection  pilot
investigation, at very low pressures, physical losses are already at more than
25%.
14.         Private Tubewells.  The BCEOM Study did not take into account the
existing capacity of private tubewells as source of water supply in the study
area. Private tubewells are licensed by DWASA when it is demonstrated that DWASA
is unable to meet the applicant's supply requirements.  According to DWASA's
records, 284 deep tubewells have been licensed. However, the Consumer Survey
1992-93 found 358 private tubewells. Normally they are between 2 and 8 inches
in diameter, compared to 8 inches for all DWASA DTWs, and their operating time
is also less.  Assuming that, on average, each private DTW produces 20Z of the
average DWASA DTW, the 358 private DTWs could add as much as 117 million m3 to
the city's water supply annually. The environmental impact assessment report for
the project  estimated  a volume  of  76 million m3  annually  as  "private
abstraction." An assessment by the ADB estimates 250 DTWs producing 50 million
m3. It must be noted that the supply from these sources is not readily available
to the distribution network; it is illegal to supply water from private DTWa
6 1.0 m3/s - 19 (approx.) IMGD (Imperial million gallons per day).
7 Capacity of DWASA's DTWs has been estimated assuming 52 l/s (4500 m3/day)
per DTW which is the rated capacity. DWASA's estimate is slightly less (47.23 l/s).



Annex 1.1
Page 6 of 8
outside the applicant's requirements but this is clearly not enforced. For the
purposes of measuring total available capacity, private DTWs are estimated to add
94.6 million m3/year or 3.0 m3/s.
15.         It is difficult to accurately determine the volume of private
production since many DTWs have not been registered with DWASA and operators are
unwilling to provide information.   There are probably more DTWs than those
reported in the Consumer Survey; during the survey, there was considerable
resistance to provide information.   Their estimated capacity (3 m /8) is an
approximated average of the first two estimates mentioned above. Private DTWs
are also highly underutilized but their capacity is not available to the network,
and it is unknown whether it is technically feasible to increase their capacity
significantly due to possible drawdown problems.
16.         Losses.  Physical losses are estimated at 34% currently.  This level
may be higher but the data on Unaccounted For Water (UFW) is not reliable since
the method of estimating non-metered consumption does 8not have anything to do
with water consumption but with property rental values.  Estimates of UFW range
from 30% to 56%.   In order to estimate physical losses, given the lack of
reliable data, the following assumptions were made: only 40% of water produced
is delivered to water connections (the BCEOM survey found between 30 and 50
percent losses due to leaks)9; of this volume 8% is consumed by the industrial,
commercial and government sectors (from water billing); an estimated 300,000
people consume 18.63 mld from stand posts or street hydrants.  The remaining
population not directly connected to the network "recovers" 10% of total WASA
production through legal and illegal connections, purchases, etc.  Estimated
losses are 251.91 Mld, equivalent to 46.39 lpd. This is 34% of DWASA production.
Deficits
17.          Assuming that water production is maintained at the current level
of 86% of capacity, and losses are reduced gradually from 34% to 20% in 10 years,
production is projected as shown in Table 2. Based on projected demand, water
deficits are then estimated.   The current deficit is 1.37 m3/s assuming per
capita consumption of 150 lpd.   However, private production is not readily
available to the network but only to the consumers who own the private DTWs.
With current capacity, by 1998 the water deficit will be approximately equal to
the net capacity of the Saidabad I Surface Water Treatment Plant (2.63 m3/s).
The additional supply will be consumed immediately, even if tariffs are increased
significantly (or for any realistic tariff increase).
18.         Despite recent expansion of the number of DWASA DTWs, and the number
of private tubewells, it has been difficult to reduce water shortages; this
requires significant increments in capacity; therefore, a deficit remains every
year which is simply met by not providing full coverage, not meeting residential
demand and not addressing the non-residential demand question.  Some of this
8 Water consumption for non-metered connections is estimated by dividing the
water bill (22.62% of the property's rental value) by the tariff.
9 The Leak Detection Programme pilot study found at least 25% losses through
pipes and service connections based on a survey of 2 small areas of the city with
very low pressures. It did not take into account losses in main lines feeding the
specific areas.



Annex 1.1
Page 7 of 8
deficit would be covered by non-WASA sources. Moreover, it is unlikely that
these deficits could be covered by increasing the number of DTWs. Considerable
discussion has taken place recently on the capacity of the aquifer to sustain
growing abstraction.   Further development of ground sources will have to be
gradual and after careful study of location and existing DTWs. A study of ground
water management has been included in the proposed project.
Suzmmary
19.         DWASA's total water production capacity is currently estimated at
192 IMGD. About 95% of this capacity is from groundwater through 190 tubewells,
which have a total capacity of 780 MLD (173 IMGD).   The remaining capacity
(19 IMGD) is from the Narayanganj Treatment Plant (9 IMGD) and the Chandnigat
Treatment Plant (10 IMGD).   Projections of increases in DWASA's production
capacity are shown below with investment assumptions.
20.         Even with  the  capacity  above,  DWASA's  current  production  is
substantially below capacity. Current production is estimated at about 166 IMGD
(i.e. 86% of capacity). Although actual water billed is approximately half of
this production, the level of consumption is higher due to illegal connections,
underbilling and other "administrative losses". In addition, the actual level
of production is not known, and DWASA has normally estimated on the basis of non-
revenue water and billed consumption.   In calculating the level of water
shortages, it is assumed that DWASA will operate tubewells at 95% of capacity and
treatment plants at full capacity.  Based on these assumptions, the expected
water shortages are shown below.



Annex 1.1
Page 8 of 8
Table 4: Total Water Requirement. Capacity and Deficit Proiections
Total Water Requirements
Current        2000          2010          2020
m3/day                        1,192,178    1,370,745    1,762,428        2,480,522
IMGD                                262          302            388            546
MGY                              95,630      110,230        141,620        199,210
Production Capacity Prolections
(IMGD)
Current     2000       2010       2020
Groundwater10/                              173        197       217        234
Chandnigat                                   10         10        10         10
Narayanganj                                   9          9          9          9
Phase 1 Treatment Plant                      -         50         50         50
Phase 2 Treatment                            -          -        100        100
PlantllI
Phase 3 Treatment                            -          -          -        100
Plant12'
TOTAL                                       192       266        386        503
Projected Water Shortages
(IMGD)
Current      2000         2010         2020
Total DWASA                           189         266         386          503
Capacity
Production                            166        256          375          491
Total Requirements                    262         302         388          546
Water Shortage                         96          46          13           55
10 Assumed gradual implementation of groundwater schemes to relieve local
shortages and increase water by about 57 IMGD over the period.
11 Second Phase of the Saidabad Surface Water Treatment Plant.
12 First phase of the Friendship Bridge Surface Water Treatment Plant.



Annex 1.2
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proiected Deficits. Planned Capacity Increase and Investment Program
Planned                         Investment Program
Current  Increased  Surplus*  Cost
Year   Deficit  Capacity  (Deficit)  US$ M               Component/Activity
M3/S      M3/S       MN/S
1994    (1.37)
1995    (1.32)                         28.2  Technical assistance, including leak
detection, training; Saidabad I
Construction.
1996    (1.33)                         29.9  Rehabilitation of secondary distribution;
metering program; technical assistance;
Saidabad I construction.
1997    (1.80)                         52.8  Saidabad I construction; technical
assistance; secondary distribution (60 km);
water & sewerage connection and metering
program; primary distribution (38 km).
1998    (2.31)      2.63     0.32      38.8  Saidabad I starts operation; technical
assistance.
1999    (2.86)      2.63    (0.23)    17.6  Technical assistance; improvement and
rehabilitation of sewerage system;
2000    (3.05)      2.63    (0.42)      5.3  Technical assistance.
2001    (3.19)      2.63    (0.56)      2.3  Technical assistance; end of IDA project.
2002    (3.34)      2.63    (0.71)   127.0  DND-1 DTW field construction (5.0); primary
distribution (122,0).
2003    (3.50)      2.63    (0.87)    14.2  DND-1 DTW field construction (6.7);
technical assistance (7.5).
2004    (3.67)      3.03    (0.65)   273.4  Sewerage expansion; DND-1 field starts
operation
2005    (4.14)      3.03    (1.12)    64.0  Saidabad II construction.
2006    (4.62)      3.03    (1.60)    36.8  Primary distribution.
2007    (5.12)      3.03    (2.09)
2008    (5.63)      5.66    (0.02)           Saidabad II starts operation.
2009    (6.16)      5.66    (0.51)   489.3  Sewerage system expansion.
2010    (6.71)      5.66    (1.05)      8.0  Technical assistance
2011    (7.26)      5.66    (1.61)
2012    (7.84)      5.66    (2.18)   125.0  Friendship Br. I construction
2013    (8.43)      5.66    (2.78)
2014    (9.04)      5.66    (3.39)
2015    (9.67)      5.66    (4.02)
2016   (10.33)    10.92      0.59            Friendship Br. I starts operation
2017   (11.00)    10.92    (0.08)
2018   (11.69)    10.92    (0.77)   762.0  Third phase of Long term Program: water
(Saidabad III, Siddirganj) and sewerage
systems expansion, primary distribution,
Leak detection and technical assistance.
To be scheduled beyond 2020.
2019   (12.40)    10.92   (1.49)
2020   (13.14)    10.92   (2.22)
* Part of this deficit will be met by additional DTW construction. Figures shown
do not include losses; therefore deficits vill be between 20 and 34x higher.



Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Institutional Reform Program
BACKGROUND
1.          The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has been trying to satisfy the
increasing demand for water arising from the rapid population expansion,
particularly in the urban areas of Dhaka and Chittagong. Since 1963, IDA has
financed five water supply projects in Dhaka and Chittagong, totalling US$108
million. IDA's fundamental objective in the sector has been to support GOB in
providing equitable and improved access to basic water supply and sanitation
services. To address these concerns IDA has focused on three areas of
potential improvements: (a) to support the development of effective sector
institutions through the establishment of the Dhaka and Chittagong Water
Supply and Sewerage Authorities (WASAs); (b) to promote long term planning of
capital investments through the identification of needs for expansion and the
constraints on capital investments; and (c) to strengthen financial discipline
and lessen the sector's reliance on limited public resources through the
direct recovery of most or all of the costs through user charges.
Notwithstanding IDA's emphasis on institutional strengthening, the water
supply network in Dhaka remains grossly inadequate and the performance of the
water sector entity (DWASA) remains very poor. There is an urgent need to
increase access to basic water supply and sanitation services, and improve
DWASA's capacity to operate efficiently and generate adequate revenues to
cover all costs of operations, including debt service. Currently, water
supply coverage in Dhaka is between 50-60%.
2.          The poor performance of DWASA is due to:  (a) GOB's inadequate
management of the sector and excessive control on DWASA's operations as
evidenced by the increasing interference in the day-to-day operations; and (b)
the poor institutional capabilities of DWASA to effectively manage and operate
its facilities including a lack of capable management, trained manpower and
clear operating objectives, resulting in poor cost recovery, a high level of
system losses and inadequate billing and revenue collection practices.
3.          Sector Management:  Overall management of the water supply sector
is characterized by excessive government control and interference, and too
much dependence by DWASA on the Government budget for its capital operating
expenditures. While the WASA Ordinance empowers DWASA to formulate, execute
and maintain water supply and sanitation schemes, impose rates and charges on
users, management decisions, including tariff setting, staffing and investment
planning are controlled by the Government. On the other hand, there are
neither defined government policy guideline for sectoral development nor
mandates for sector entities. The current DWASA Board is staffed by
representatives of Government agencies, and there are no incentives or
initiatives by DWASA staff to operate efficiently. Water tariffs, regulated
by the Government, neither reflect cost structures nor meet financial
requirements of the operating entities, and adjustments have been irregular in
the past. While DWASA is able to fully cover its operating costs, it is
unable to fully cover interest charges on three IDA loans. The most recent
tariffs increases were 10% in FY91, 15% in FY93, and another 10% in FY94.



Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 5
Even these were not adequate to cover DWASA's costs during a time when DWASA's
its systems losses were about 50%. As a result, DWASA has been unable to keep
up a full program of regular maintenance and leak detection, leading to a
further deterioration of its system and services. In addition, DWASA is
unable to make the relatively modest investments in institutional improvements
in areas like accounting and billing, collection without the financial support
of multilateral donors.
4.          DWASA's Capability:  DWASA's operations suffer from a lack of
commercial orientation and accountability, poor management systems and
shortage of trained and motivated staff. Operational performance is weak in
many respects. The level of system losses was as high as 532 in 1991, and
accounts receivables arrears average about 6.5 months of billings. Of the
system losses, it is estimated that 20% is attributable to administrative or
commercial losses, e.g. under-billing as a result of unmetered service,
illegal connections and inaccurate and tampered meters, an incomplete customer
data base, wrong meter reading and rent seeking activities of meter inspectors
aimed at reduction water bills. Despite revenue improvements DWASA could not
fully service its interest obligations in recent years, and was in default on
some covenants for the Second and Third IDA credits.
5.          Many of these issues have been continuous and pervasive.  In the
past there has been ad hoc attempts to address them, through DWASA activities
financed through IDA credits. While this has brought some improvements from
time to time, the lack of a comprehensive approach to deal with the issues
have affected the sustainability of the programs. In addition, the lack of an
effective dialogue between GOB and IDA on the need and the approach to sector
reforms have affected their implementation. The reforms prepared under this
project have been formulated after a sustained policy dialogue with the
Government and represents an attempt to deal with issues affecting DWASA in a
comprehensive manner.
THE PROPOSED REFORM PROGRAM
6.          The proposed objectives of the reform program is to commence a
process of actions and policy changes that would improve DWASA's institutional
and financial efficiency and performance to enable it to operate as a more
autonomous and commercially managed water supply institution. The program
would seek to:
(a)   provide DWASA with operating conditions that would approximate
those of commercial organizations established under the Companies
Act, and obtain greater autonomy from GOB by strengthening and
streamlining DWASA's existing Board, revising its Ordinance and
providing it with operating policies which would define its
responsibilities as a water utility in areas like staffing,
financial policy decisions and tariff setting, and those of the
Government as a share-holder;
(b)   seek internal changes in DWASA's operations, financial management
and performance; and
(c)   establish and enforce management accountability by requiring DWASA
to meet agreed operational and financial performance targets.



Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 5
7.          The actions required to meet each of these objectives are
described below:
(a)   Increase in DWASA Autonomy:  Within the -context of the existing
regulatory framework, revisions have been made to the WASA
Ordinance with the objective of establishing DWASA as a commercial
utility along the lines of utilities in developed countries,
streamlining its Board membership to seven, the majority of whom
would be non-government, with renewable fixed tenures. The Board
would be appointed by the Government, under very clear guidelines
agreed with IDA. The Ministries of Local Government (MLG) and
Finance (MOF) would each nominate a Board member to represent the
Government and DWASA's interests on the Board. The other non-
governmental members would include a consumer interest group
representative. The Government would appoint the Chairman of the
Board from amongst the Board members, also under clear guidelines.
The Board would select and recruit the Managing Director of DWASA,
from the private sector with final ratification by the Ministry of
Local Government, also based on very clear guidelines and
criteria, agreed with IDA. This Managing Director would be an ex
officio and non-voting member of the Board.
To reinforce the separation of responsibilities and DWASA's
autonomy, a Policy Statement has been agreed that would define the
Government, Board and Management's role in DWASA's operations. In
broad terms, the Government's role would be to establish the
policy framework for the sector and for DWASA; the Board's role
would be to implement the policy within the framework agreed, and
the DWASA management's role would be the day-to-day management and
achievement of agreed operational, financial and institutional
performance objectives. A system of performance evaluation for
the Board and management would be established to enable
supervision and management by results rather than processes, and
to clarify the perception of managers and GOB about DWASA's
corporate objectives.
(b)   Internal changes in DWASA's performance:  To address the problems
of DWASA's weak capability to provide its services the following
actions would be taken:
(i)    establishment of a-Twinning Arrangement with a water
utility management consultant under technical assistance
to help DWASA to build managerial, financial and
technical capabilities essential for efficient management
and operation of a commercial oriented water utility.
This technical assistance, renewable every year for four
years, would seek to improve operations and maintenance,
management information systems, by implementing a
modernized and efficient billing and collection system, an
improved accounting system, technical improvements to
DWASA to reduce water losses, and training to DWASA staff
to improve their capabilities to manage the utility;
(ii)   re-organization of DWASA's structure to create profit/cost
centers designed to introduce transparency and



Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 5
accountability into operations, by separating distribution
and water production and introduction of a transfer price
between the two units. This would be undertaken by the
Twinning Program described in (i) above;
(iii) implementation of a Crash Meter Installation Program to
reduce unmetered connections to less than 5% within three
years. This program would be contracted to a private
sector contractor and would include district/zone metering
to properly monitor water consumption in different zones
to set the stage for private participation in DWASA
activities in future. This program, will utilize
information from a consumer survey completed in July 1993
financed under the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project (Cr
1734-BD), and would commence by Board presentation of the
project, under a retroactive financing arrangement;
(iv)   implementation of a Leak Detection and Rehabilitation
Program throughout DWASA's distribution system to reduce
physical water losses. This program would utilize a pilot
program initiated in two consumer zones under the Third
DWASA Project;
(v)    contracting out DWASA services to local contractors to
reduce system losses and improve billing and collection
efficiency. The services to be contracted out will
include meter reading, billing, collections, and follow-up
on payments and disconnection in case of default. The
program will initially start in two zones and the
experience in these zones will be used to plan future
activities; and
(vi)   implementation of a graduated or block tariff structure to
properly reflect the cost of providing service and
discourage excessive water consumption, to be implemented
gradually over two years. Tariff increases would still be
required in the interim period to ensure that DWASA
revenues continue to improve and it achieves financial
sufficiency within four years. A Tariff Study
recommending the revised structure was completed during
preparation.
(c)   Establishment and enforcement of Management Accountability:  This
would include actions requiring DWASA to meet agreed operational
and financial performance objectives, which would be defined in a
Performance Agreement between the Government and DWASA. The most
critical of these targets would include:
(i)    achievement of agreed operating ratios/(revenue/cost)
levels every year through tariff increases and cost
reductions to ensure that DWASA covers all costs of
operations, including debt service charges within four
years;



Annex 2.1
Page 5 of 5
(ii)   reduction in unaccounted-for-water (systems losses) to
about 30X within seven years;
(iii) implementation of agreed annual targets of the metering
program discussed above;
(iv)   reduction of accounts receivables to agreed levels each
year (including an initial ageing analysis and writing off
of uncollectible arrears), with the objective of achieving
a receivable to billing ratio of 3 months within three
years; and
(v)    implementation of an acceptable consumer connection
program, subject to the availability of water. Targets
for this will be defined on an annual basis, based on an
estimate of the availability of water.
8.          The Performance Agreement will also address issues like reporting
procedures, the financing of DWASA investments, and performance objective
follow-up procedures and plans for payment of water supply and sewerage
arrears from Government departments and public corporations. Some of the
monitoring indicators to be used to measure DWASA's performance are shown at
Annex 12. These include physical, technical and financial indicators.
9.          In addition to these activities, a strategy study would be carried
out under the project to investigate privatization alternatives, and develop a
long term strategy for mobilizing finance and increasing efficiency in DWASA.
The study will assist in demonstrating the need for fundamental reform in
order to attract required finance from the private sector for DWASA's
investment program, as well as assess the steps required for reform
implementation, including the development of a regulatory framework.



Table 1: SUMMARY OF INSTrUlTIONAL REFORM COMPONENTS
Objectjve                                       Descipi                                            T
Amendment of the WASA Ordine                    Provide DWASA with operaing conditi   mlar       Revision of Ordnce to provide DWASA with          Ratificatiaa of Ordance by GOB before Board
to thoe in conunestial ogankzatiens.             greater autonomy by str_ngting DWASA Board,    Prsntatio  of the Prect
inoductio of ommial rgltos sad limitng
GOB functions
2.    Establisment of Policy Stement             To create policies that would define responsibilities  Policy  Statement  would  create  specific  Poicy  Staement to be canpleted  by Board
of DWASA, its Bord and the Ooveansnt.            respensibtlie for DWASA as a utiLity in areas    Presetao  and ratified by Bord.
lie saffing, financial poicy and tariff, the Board
as impxantng uit of DWASA policits, and
GOB as shardelder.
3.    Perforane Agoeonmct                        To establish anual perfmance objectives by        Perfomace Agrment weuld covcr trgets in          Perfornance Agcest to be finlized at Board.
which DWASA would be held accotable.             revenue, cot lveba, water lo, billing and        Agreemen  to be raviewed annually betwen
coleics,  red tagets of service provision.       DWASA  and GOB to chdck compliaoce with
targets.
4.    Appoinmt of MWAging Director               To improve _mnat of DWASA.                        Mawning Director with appropriate skills ad      AppoiiCst or desipatie  to be completed by
expeience to be ppointed from the private ector  negots . Appoinmmt is for four years, ad
on a contact basis under the project.           renewablt.
5.    Twinning Program                           To help DWASA build manaia, fineaial and          Twinng arrangemt with an efficiemt wat           Program  would be for four years.  Phae  I
tchnial capabili  esen t  for efficiency         utility to help impr   opeoanad mns scc,         (diagostic) for four mtinls and Phae  1 for 31/2
managant and  operatio   of a conmercial         fnacial managemen, nmangemet  informatio         year.
or ed water utilty.                              sydms and training to DWASA to help inprove
staff capabthes.
6.    Meter Inallao  Pgnm                         Icreas  biled water by reducing unmetred         A  crah mdeer isll     pror    to reduce         Threeyea.
cacons.                                          unmetred connctio  font 22X to about 51 in
two yea. Program would be conctcd out to a
private sector coactor.
7.    Leak Ddecon and Rehabilitation Prgr        Reduce physica losss and isrea  mrevnu.           A program to cover tDe DWASA  ervice area to     Phaes I to cce  in Noveabr 1994. Phas H1
reduce physial les ad undeta  repar and          to onmene afler Phase I in approximately 20
J reabiJitbati, to be implemitd in three phas.       nths later. Phas m  t commence sfkcr four
year.
S.    Tariff Study                               To recomnd a rvised cad inproved tariff           A study to recommed and impkment a gradud        Tariff study in progirss, to be complted by
structwu.                                        tariff structre which proerb rdects the coat of    Navember 1994.
providing th  services and discourage exsive
water consumption.



C  Obie*nctDeivri_                                                                                  T_m
9.    Contacting out DWASA Services.            To improve billing amd collcti  efficiency and   Contracting out billn, cdletn, meter repis      Frst two z7o  wil be tsted over twelve montns;
reduce nmm-cbhnical systm  losses.              and readings and disconnection to private setor, to    resulb will be used to plan addion  activities.
initially  tart in two mums of DWASA'a service
area.
10.   Reosgniztio of DWASA's fictions io        To inmtoduce acntabily  between diffeet    Sepati  of disriution and water production to         To be undeake  unde the Twinnig Program
protlcost cente.                          functiona.                                      allow belter monn  of inputs and mach thea       Consultancy.
with outus.
11.   Strategy  Study  for  Private  Sctor      To introduce futher privat participation throu   To    s the private  ector optims available to    Study  will  tnt  immediately  after  project
Participation,                           a dedicated utility operstor.                    improve DWASA's efficiency and reconomed the     effectiveness, and be implented over a year.
most feasble option.                            Folow-up diaogue with the Overnm nt.



Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
General Operating and Financial Policy Statement
I.    PREAMBLE
1.          The Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) was
established under the Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance of 1963, and amended
by the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority-(Amendment) Ordinance of 1984.
DWASA's objectives are to provide for the construction, improvement,
expansion, operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage facilities
in Dhaka.
2.          DWASA is a public authority under the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. In recognizing the important
role that DWASA plays in the urban development of Dhaka and in meeting basic
water supply needs, the Government has placed high priority in improving
DWASA's operational and financial performance. The Government also recognizes
that DWASA's performance could be improved by providing clearly defined
guidelines and mandates relative to the organizational, functional, managerial
and financial aspects of DWASA and the Government's own role in supervision
and monitoring DWASA's operations.
3.          The objective of this policy statement is to establish clear
guidelines for DWASA operations, and provide the required level of autonomy
for the efficient delivery of its services. This policy statement also
defines the roles and responsibilities of the Government and its Ministries in
monitoring and supervising DWASA's performance to ensure that it operates
efficiently.
II.   GENERAL CORPORATE POWER AND FUNCTIONS
4.          DWASA shall have the following general power and functions among
others:
(a)   transact the business for which it has lawfully been organized,
and exercise such powers and perform such acts as are directly or
indirectly necessary to the attainment of its purposes and
objectives;
(b)   provide water and sanitation services in the City of Dhaka as
efficiently as possible, recover fully all of the costs of service
delivery, and expand coverage, improve water and sanitation
services to the extent possible, and with the resources available;
(c)   own, lease, mortgage, encumber or otherwise dispose of real and
personal property as the attainment of its purposes and objectives
may reasonably permit and the transaction of its lawful business
may necessarily require;



Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 10
(d)   enter into any obligation or contract (financial or otherwise) to
the proper administration of its affairs, the transaction of its
business or the accomplishment of its purposes and objectives;
(e)   sue and be sued in its name before any court or tribunal;
(f)   formulate policies and promulgate regulations necessary for the
attainment of its purposes and objectives, which are not contrary
to law, or the WASA Ordinance, morals, public interest, and amend
or repeat the same where necessary; and
(g)   generally, exercise all the powers of a utility under the amended
WASA Ordinance of 1995 consistent with the provision of the policy
statement.
III. BOARD
5.          Under Section 6 of the WASA Ordinance, DWASA shall be governed by
a Board or equivalent body composed of a Chairman and six members, to be
appointed by the Government of Bangladesh. The Board will consist of:
(a)   a representative of the Ministry of Local Government;
(b)   a representative of the Ministry of Finance;
(c)   a representative of DWASA water users;
(d)   a member of the Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry
(e)   a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants;
(f)   a member of the Institute of Engineers Bangladesh; and
(g)   an additional non-governmental member.
6.          The Managing Director of DWASA will be an additional ex-officio
but non-voting member of the Board. The number of Board members required to
constitute a quorum for transacting the business of the corporation shall be
four.
7.          The representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Local Government will be senior officials of a rank no less than that of a
Joint Secretary.
8.          The appointed members of the Board or equivalent body shall serve
for a fixed renewable term, and shall be eligible for reappointment.
9.          Members of the Board shall remain in office until their successors
shall have been appointed and qualified. In case of a vacancy on the Board,
the same shall be filled by the Government for the unexpired term.
10.         No person shall be appointed member of the Board unless he is a
citizen of Bangladesh, of established integrity, and has the specific
qualifications required to transact DWASA business.
11.     -   The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Government of
Bangladesh from amongst the members of the Board. The Board will elect
amongst themselves a Vice-Chairman of the Board. The Chairman, or in his
absence the Vice-Chairman, shall act as the presiding officer of the Board.



Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 10
12.         The Chairman and members of the Board, (except the Managing
Director as ex-officio member) may have alternates who shall be appointed or
elected in the same manner and for the same term of office as the members to
whom they are alternate. The alternative member shall be duly authorized to
sit temporarily in the member's stead, whenever they are unable to attend any
Board meeting.
13.         An alternate member may participate in meetings but may vote only
when he is acting in place of and in the absence of the member to whom he is
an alternate.
14.         While the office of a member is vacant, the alternative of the
former member shall exercise the powers of that member.
IV.   POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD
15.         The Board or equivalent body shall have the following powers and
functions:
(a)   formulate policies necessary for the attainment of the purposes
and objectives for which DWASA was established;
(b)   proclaim regulations governing the manner in which the general
business of DWASA is to be transacted, including financial
regulations; and amend, repeal or alter such regulations as it
considers necessary or appropriate to further the objectives and
functions of DWASA;
(c)   recommend for ratification by the Governmei.t of Bangladesh,
appointment of the Managing Director of DWASA;
(d)   determine the organizational structure of DWASA, and in accordance
with the provisions in clause       , create such positions as may
be necessary for the economical, effective and efficient discharge
of its functions and responsibilities in accordance with an agreed
manning plan;
(e)   appoint the Deputy Managing Director(s) of DWASA, if necessary,
provided that these will have different functional
responsibilities like finance and administration, technical and
planning and development and the like;
(f)   pass upon and approve, in accordance with the provisions of clause
51, the annual and supplemental budgets, audit report, corporate
plans and annual and medium-term investment plans submitted to it
by the Managing Director of DWASA in accordance with the
provisions and targets in the Performance Agreement;
(g)   pass upon and approve self financed investments of DWASA and
including the financial arrangements for such investments provided
that DWASA makes such investments after meeting its normal annual
liabilities, and the investment plans are consistent with the
Performance Agreement;



Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 10
(h)   pass upon and approve, in accordance with the provisions in clause
50, management contracts and proposals, including procurement
arrangements for self-financed investments;
(i)   pass upon and approve, in accordance with the provisions in clause
49, DWASA's proposals for adjustment of tariffs and charges for
its services based on an agreed annual inflation index;
(j)   present annual reports, including any other special reports as may
be required to the Government of Bangladesh;
(k)   submit to the Ministry of Local Government, fiscal plans and
statements of financial condition at such time and in such form as
may be prescribed, for-the purpose of incorporating in the fiscal
budget plans of the Government;
(1)   submit to the Ministry of Local Government for Government approval
all investments requiring Government financing or guarantees;
(m)   adopt rules and procedures and fix the time and place for holding
Board meetings;
(n)   appoint DWASA's auditors annually, and fix the remuneration for
the auditors; and
(o)   exercise such other powers and perform such other functions as may
be required by law.
V.    BOARD MEETINGS
16.         The Board shall convene as frequently as possible (preferably
every two months), or as is necessary to discharge its responsibilities
properly.
17.         The members of the Board (except the Managing Director of DWASA,
as ex-officio member) shall receive such per diem as may be authorized by the
Ministry of Local Government for every meeting attended.
18.         Meetings of the Board shall be convened by the Chairman, or in his
absence, by the Vice Chairman. Meetings other than regular meetings shall be
so convened:
(a)   whenever the Chairman or, in his absence, the Vice Chairman deems
it necessary or desirable;
(b)   whenever the Managing Director so requests; and
(c)   whenever a majority of the members of the Board so requests.
19.         If a quorum is not present within 30 minutes of the appointed time
for the Board meeting, the meeting shall be adjourned to the next day, at the
same time and place, or if that day is a public holiday, to the next
succeeding day which is not a public holiday at the same time and the same



Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 10
place; if a quorum is not present at such adjourned meeting, the members
present shall constitute a quorum and may transact the business for which the
meeting was called.
20.         The Board may, by regulation, establish a procedure whereby a
decision in writing signed by all the members of the Board shall be as valid
and effectual as if it had been made at a meeting of the Members of the Board.
21.         All matters brought before the Board shall be decided by a simple
majority vote.
VI.   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF DWASA
22.         DWASA shall have a full time Managing Director as its Chief
Executive Officer. He shall be appointed by the Board, with final
ratification by the Government of Bangladesh, for a fixed term unless sooner
removed by the Board for cause or by reason of incapacity. The Managing
Director shall be of good moral character, of unquestionable integrity and
responsibility and shall be of recognized competence in managing of public
utilities or other corporations.
23.         The Managing Director shall be the legal representative of DWASA.
24.         The salary of the Managing Director shall be fixed by the Board,
and shall reflect the experience, competence and qualification of the
individual and his expected responsibilities. The Board may authorize payment
of allowances and other emoluments to the Managing Director, including
incentive bonuses depending on performance.
25.         The Managing Director shall be assisted by such other officers as
may be necessary for the efficient operation of DWASA.
26.         The Managing Director shall not perform any functions outside
DWASA which in the opinion of the Board are incompatible with his office in
DWASA.
27.         The Managing Director shall vacate his office if the Board so
decides, and the Government ratifies the decision. Such ratification shall be
granted within twenty-one days, failing which the Board shall proceed with the
removal of the Managing Director.
28.         The Managing Director shall have the following powers and
functions:-
(a)   execute, administer and implement policies and measures, including
financial and operational objectives approved by the Board;
(b)   direct and manage the affairs and business of DWASA in a
financially and administratively sound manner, and in compliance
with the rules, regulations, provisions of the ordinance or other
contracts approved by the Board;



Annex 2.2
Page 6 of 10
(c)   submit, within three months after the close of the calendar year,
a draft annual report to the Board and such other reports as may
be required;
(d)   submit to the Board three months before the end of the fiscal year
an annual budget for the following fiscal year and such
supplemental budgets as may be necessary for its consideration and
approval;
(e)   represent DWASA in all dealings with other offices, agencies and
departments of the Government and with all persons and other
public or private, domestic and foreign entities;
(f)   appoint, with the approval of the Board, and discipline for cause
in accordance with civil service law, rules and regulations, the
subordinate officers and personnel of DWASA;
(g)   transfer officers and personnel within DWASA as the nature of the
service may require without need of prior approval by the Board;
(h)   delegate authority, in whole or in part, to subordinate officers
and personnel of DWASA, provided such delegation has the prior
approval of the Board;
(i)   recommend to the Board, adjustments to DWASA's tariffs and
charges, based on an evaluation of expected performance in the
following fiscal year;
(j)   perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board;
(k)   set DWASA's performance targets relative to the implementation its
corporate plans and programs, subject to approval of the GOB
taking into account the capabilities and resources of the
corporation, the agreed performance evaluation criteria for DWASA
and the sectoral policies of GOB; and
(1)   formulate operational policies and internal work systems for the
conduct of its day-to-day affairs including performance incentives
for staff, toward the attainment of the coordinated corporate and
government sectoral policies and objectives. Such policies shall
require approval of the Board before becoming effective.
29.         The Managing Director shall be held accountable for DWASA's
performance and will be responsible for meeting agreed performance targets,
and ensuring that adequate resources are available for meeting those targets.
VII. MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
30.         The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives (MLGRDC) shall accord the greatest possible degree of autonomy to
DWASA in decision-making at the operational level.



Annex 2.2
Page 7 of 10
31.         MLGRDC may establish, within its organizational structure, a
specific unit of competent personnel who shall be charged with the function
and responsibility of assisting the Ministry in the discharge of its functions
of monitoring DWASA's performance. Such a unit shall be headed by an official
not lower than the Joint Secretary level in rank. The mix of skills and types
of staff needed for this purpose shall be determined by the MLGRDC.
32.         MLGRDC will review agreed performance targets of DWASA relative to
the implementation of the corporate plans, programs, and performance
agreement, taking into account the resources of DWASA, the agreed performance
evaluation criteria, established beforehand with DWASA.
33.         MLGRDC will provide through DWASA's Board, the overall framework
to guide DWASA's operational policies and internal work systems.
34.         MLGRDC shall monitor and evaluate periodically the physical and
financial performance of DWASA for the purpose of ensuring that both objective
and execution of the corporate plans and programs are being effectively
pursued and implemented in accordance with the approved performance targets.
For this purpose, MLGRDC shall, among others, require DWASA through its Board
to render periodic reports on the progress of plans and programs, including
the conduct of appropriate financial and other audits and examinations of
audited annual financial statements of DWASA as appropriate.
35.         The role of MLGRDC in decision-making shall be:
(a)   ensuring that DWASA's corporate plans, programs and budgets are
congruent with its own sectoral objectives and priorities;
(b)   determining the implications of such plans and programs on those
of other public corporation or utilities attached to the ministry;
(c)   reviewing the assumptions given and calculation made in justifying
the viability of such proposed plans and programs;
(d)   reviewing the targets proposed to be achieved and monitoring the
physical and financial performance of DWASA on a periodic basis to
ensure that such agreed targets are being faithfully pursued; and
(e)   discussing and giving guidance to the Board as appropriate with
respect to the operations of DWASA and any matters which the Board
may refLer to it.
36.         MLGRDC shall nominate an appropriate senior official of MLGRDC to
DWASA's Board. It shall be among the functions and responsibilities of the
representing official to provide a two-way flow of timely, relevant and
accurate information between MLGRDC and the Board on all matters necessary for
effectively coordinating the plans and programs of the corporation with the
policies and objectives of the Government.



Annex 2.2
Page 8 of 10
37.         It shall be mandatory for MLGRDC to:
(a)   enforce a closer ministerial overview of operations of DWASA in
the case of continuing incurring of deficits by DWASA, or
inability to meet performance targets, through the examination,
review and approval of DWASA's operating and capital expenditures,
and more frequent reports as may be necessary;
(b)   conduct management audits of DWASA if it is reasonably believed to
have been mismanaged, upon prima facie evidence of such
mismanagement, and take such action as may be appropriate under
the circumstances;
(c)   see to it that inputs of corporate operations in which the
Directorate of Audit has qualified audit opinions are improved;
and
(d)   dismiss a member or members of the Board in case of misconduct or
failure to undertake their duties and responsibilities as provided
in this policy statement.
38.         Nothing in this policy statement shall be construed as reducing or
absolving DWASA, or its Board of the responsibility to ensure the efficiency,
effectiveness and viability of DWASA operations, nor MLGRDC of the
responsibility to take such remedial actions as may be necessary under the
premise to improve DWASA's performance.
39.         MLGRDC shall, in consultation with the Board, be responsible for
developing indicators, criteria, standards and other measures of performance
relevant to corporate monitoring, including the identification of problem
areas, measures for relevant follow-up action and designing a performance
evaluation system that will include a comprehensive review of DWASA's
performance on an annual basis.
VIII. THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE
40.         The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will provide technical support to
MLGRDC in the monitoring and evaluation of the financial performance of DWASA,
as well as in the analysis of the financial implication of DWASA's development
plans submitted to the MLGRDC including the requirement for funding support
from other sources, foreign and domestic borrowing, and foreign exchange
requirements, in terms of the medium term public investment program, and the
Annual Development Program, where necessary.
41.         MOF shall provide support in monitoring disbursement or releases
to DWASA, as well as the implications of government guarantees required by
DWASA for loans incurred by DWASA.
IX.   FINANCIAL AND INVESTMENT POLICY
42.         DWASA will operate in a commercially oriented and financial manner
with the objective of generating adequate revenue to cover all cost of



Annex 2.2
Page 9 of 10
operations, including depreciation, provision of doubtful debts, financial
charges, plus a profit on invested capital on an accrual basis.
43.         The Managing Director will present to the Board for approval, its
proposed investment/expansion, with all the justification for the investment,
and demonstrable evidence of positive contribution to the water supply and
sanitation sector, and the technical, financial and economic viability of the
investment.
44.         In selecting investments or expansion, DWASA shall always be
guided by the need to pursue the objectives set forth in Section 2 of this
Policy Statement and Section       of the revised WASA Ordinance.
45.         DWASA shall so conduct its operations as to earn a reasonable
return on its capital, as agreed annually with the Government, and reflected
in its Performance Agreement.
46.         Subject to Board approval, DWASA will incur loans (whether
domestic or foreign) to carry out the investments or development projects.
The Board will specify to the Government the purpose for which the proposed
debts is to be incurred, and the terms and conditions as it shall deem
appropriate for the accomplishment of the said purpose. The rate of DWASA's
borrowing to the total of borrowing and shareholders funds should not exceed
60Z, with borrowing defined as current and long term interest bearing debt,
and excluding trade creditors and other accounts payable. Shareholders funds
shall be defined as share equity, revaluation reserves, government and foreign
grants, and accumulated earnings/(shares).
47.         DWASA will maintain adequate accounting systems incorporating
various internal controls to the extent possible, and appropriate to its
nature and size of its operation.
48.         Subject to Board approval, the Managing Director will appoint the
staff of DWASA, based on an agreed staffing formula that will limit excessive
employment. DWASA shall always ensure that its staff costs do not exceed 25%
of its total operating costs in any given fiscal year.
49.         In recommending annual tariff increases to the Board, DWASA shall
always ensure that proposed increases do not exceed the average of the
inflation index for the previous year and estimated index for the current
year.
50.         The Board shall establish the approval limits for Board and DWASA
Management for procurement and other contracts.
51.         The Board will present to the Government DWASA's budget, for its
examination and inclusion into the annual development program and Performance
Agreement after discussing and approving it in its Board meeting.



Annex 2.2
Page 10 of 10
52.         The Managing Director shall, within three months from the end of
the fiscal year, provide to the Board annual reports and audited reports for
the fiscal year ended. These reports shall include the appropriate narrative,
statistical information and financial statements describing the activities of
DWASA during the fiscal year. The reports shall also describe and justify any
substantial deviation from the annual plan, budget and specific performance
targets agreed beforehand.



Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
Performance Aareement Between
The Government of Bangladesh
and
Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authoritv
AGREEMENT
1.          This Performance Agreement (hereinafter called the Agreement) is
between the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) represented by the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC) and the Dhaka
Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA).
2.          The rationale for this Agreement arises from the mutual interest
of both DWASA and GOB to:
(a)   improve the performance and growth of DWASA as an autonomous
public utility capable of exercising its powers to maximize the
benefits from DWASA's assets;
(b)   to increase the level and quality of water and sanitation services
in the City of Dhaka;
(c)   to improve investment and financial planning and reduce the level
of financial losses in DWASA; and
(d)   to contribute towards the economic and social development of
Bangladesh by increasing DWASA's capabilities in the areas of its
functions as identified by the amended WASA Ordinance of 1963, as
amended by the WASA (Amendment) Ordinance of 1996.
3.          Based on this mutual interest, both DWASA and GOB have agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement toward the fulfillment
of their respective commitments as described in the following paragraphs.
4.          GOB and DWASA shall be bound by the provisions of this Agreement
and shall assist each other in the fulfillment of their respective obligations
as laid down in this Agreement.
5.          This Performance Agreement shall consist of this Agreement and its
Annexes, as incorporated herein.
OBJECTIVES
6.          The Government recognizes the urgent need for improvement in water
supply and sanitation in Dhaka and other urban areas in Bangladesh. The main
sector objective being pursued by the Government is to improve human health
and productivity through the development of water supply services which are
affordable and sustainable to as many people as possible.
7.          In this context, GOB established DWASA under the Water Supply and
Sewerage (WASA) Ordinance of 1963 to formulate, execute, and maintain water



Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 8
supply and sanitation schemes and impose rates and charges on consumers for
these services. According to this Ordinance, DWASA is supposed to be an
autonomous entity; however, the Ordinance also stipulates that DWASA shall be
guided, on questions of policy, by such directives as the Government may, from
time to time give, and the Government shall be the sole judge as to whether a
direction given to DWASA is or is not a question of policy.
8.          An essential goal for DWASA is to ensure that it operates more
efficiently as a truly autonomous and commercially managed water supply
utility by implementing actions that would give it more autonomy in its
operations to provide its customers with an adequate and reliable water source
efficiently. To meet the growing demand for water supply in Dhaka, GOB
support is required to ensure that DWASA achieves this goal. This will
involve DWASA adopting clear strategies addressing its financial, operational
and institutional performance.
9.          The main objective of this Agreement is, therefore, to develop
DWASA into an efficient and financially autonomous organization, capable of
meeting consumer needs, without recourse to GOB financial and budgetary
support. With donor assistance, DWASA is committed to improve the water
supply and sanitation situation in support of overall Government sector
objectives.
10.         The Agreement defines, for the period stipulated:
(a)   the objectives and obligations of DWASA under the Agreement;
(b)   the rights and obligations of GOB and DWASA under the Agreement;
and
(c)   the procedures for performance evaluation and monitoring under the
Agreement.
11.         The targets and provisions in this Agreement will be incorporated
into a Corporate Plan that will form the basis for DWASA's operations and will
be revised annually.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.          Period of Agreement
This Agreement covers a period of five years from the
date of its signature to                      200_.  The parameters
for this Agreement shall be reviewed annually between the parties
involved.
2.          Review and Modification of Agreement
Notwithstanding the provisions made in the paragraph above, this
Agreement shall be subject to review and/or modification or
extension by the agreeing parties during the period of this
Agreement.



Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 8
3.          Limitation of Agreement
This Agreement shall in no way supersede, amend or modify the
provision of the WASA Ordinance, including its amendments, and
shall, in all respects, be subject to the provisions of the
Ordinance. In case of a conflict between the provisions of this
Agreement and those of the Ordinance, the provisions of the
Ordinance will prevail.
OBJECTIVES AND OBLIGATIONS OF DWASA IN THE PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
4.          Supply Obiectives
4.1         DWASA will commit itself to provide at all times the best
conditions of service within the means at its disposal and will
achieve the water supply coverage levels shown in the Annex to
achieve a 70% coverage level in FY2000.
4.2         To meet the targeted water supply coverage levels, DWASA shall
undertake an expansion of its water supply capacity by
implementing the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project, with
efficiency and efficacy.
5.          Technical Operational Objectives
DWASA will make every effort to improve the technical qualities of
its services. The objectives of such efforts should cover the
following areas:
5.1         DWASA will undertake to improve its distribution system by
introducing a preventative maintenance program for all plants and
distribution network. This program will be reviewed annually by a
committee consisting of DWASA and MLGRDC officials to ensure that
it meets stated objectives.
5.2         DWASA will undertake to implement the Crash Meter Installation
program and to achieve the targets in the Annex to increase
metered connections to about 95% of total connections by June 1998
DWASA will use all resources available, internally or externally,
including the option of contracting the implementation of this
program to the private sector.
5.3         DWASA will undertake to implement a leak detection and control
program, and actions to reduce commercial and administrative
system losses to reduce system losses according to targets in the
Annex and achieve a level of unaccounted for water of 36% from the
current level by 1999.
5.4         DWASA will undertake to implement a consumer connection program,
to achieve the targets in the Annex and increase the level of
connections to 199,485 by FY99.
5.5         DWASA will undertake to implement a well monitoring and
regeneration program to improve productivity of its tubewells, and
achieve increase average productivity per well to 4.0 million lpd
by 1998.



Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 8
6.          Commercial and Operational Obiectives
DWASA will make every effort to improve the quality of its service
and commercial operations. The objectives of such efforts are:
6.1         DWASA will improve the level of its revenue collection to attain
the targeted levels of receivables to monthly billings shown in
the Annex and achieve a ratio of 3 months by FY98.
6.2         DWASA will implement a meter repair program by FY97 to ensure that
faulty meters are reported and repaired within thirty days.
6.3         DWASA commits itself to improve its billing practices to ensure
that by FY98, all customers receive their bills on a monthly
basis.
6.4         DWASA will implement a billing policy to ensure that by FY98, all
bills are paid within three months from the receipt of the bill.
7.          Investment Oblectives
DWASA commits itself towards the effective implementation of its
investments under the Fourth DWASA Project to sustain the growth
-.      and capability required to meet the forecasted production capacity
of 101,300 million gallons per year by the year 2001.
8.          Consumer Relations Obiectives
DWASA commits itself to improving the quality of its commercial
management and interaction with its consumers. The commitments of
DWASA under this objective is to introduce policies that would:
8.1         improve commercial relations with consumers along with prompt
handling of queries and service complaints. DWASA commits itself
to respond to a service complaint within 10 days;
8.2         provide information to consumers beforehand on expected water
shortages, and reasons and estimated duration of the shortages,
and explanation afterwards on sudden and unexpected water
shortages;
8.3         implement a media campaign to warn consumers on the legal
implications on the pilferage and theft of water;
8.4         implement a media campaign to bring awareness in consumers of the
benefits of the conservation of water resources.
9.          Human Resource Management Obiectives
DWASA commits itself to improve the efficiency of its staff in
relation to its services. The commitment of DWASA under this
objective would be:
9.1         achieve the staffing targets set in the Annex and improve its
staff productivity index to 14 staff per 1,000 connections by the



Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 8
year 2,000, and maintain its staff costs to no more than 25Z of
total costs.
9.2         take appropriate action, to improve staff productivity measures
through strict recruitment policies, natural attrition, incentives
for greater motivation and productivity and comprehensive training
program.
10.         Finance, Accounting and Audit Obiectives
DWASA commits itself to strengthen its financial performance,
accounting systems, audits and control and improve its financial
management and operational efficiency. The commitments of DWASA
under this objective would be:
10.1        to take adequate financial and regulatory measures to improve
revenue to a level such that gradually, and by FY99, internal
revenue generation shall be sufficient to cover cash operating
expenses; debt service resulting from all debt incurred under
three IDA credits, two ADB loans, and debt to be incurred under
the proposed Fourth DWASA project in percentages shown in the
Annex and contribute to the self-financing of the Investment
Program in percentages shown in the Annex;
10.2        to review and improve the accounting system, with assistance of
technical assistance under the project, to establish an efficient
computerized accounting system with updated accounting manuals by
FY98.
10.3        to review and update the financial status of DWASA, including
review of accounts receivables to establish a realizable value,
perform an ageing analysis of all receivables, perform a
reconciliation of all balance sheet items, including stores to
identify obsolete and slow moving stores, establish more reliable
estimates of work-in-progress, current liabilities and fixed
assets, by March 1997 and sell all mismatched obsolete and slow
moving stocks; and write off uncollectible arrears by December
1997;
10.4        to review and update budget procedures, and issue manual of
procedures and guidelines;
10.5        improve financial management of DWASA, in respect of cash
management, account and ledger reconciliations and provide
training to accounting staff to improve their efficiency;
10.6        review and establish effective systems of internal control
throughout DWASA, including strengthening of the Internal Audit
System.
11.         Tariff Policy Objectives
11.1        DWASA will adopt a revised tariff structure by June 1997.  The
revised tariff structure shall be aimed to fulfill the following
functions:



Annex 2.3
Page 6 of 8
11.1.1      to meet DWASA's financial requirements as outlined in Section
10.1;
11.1.2      to adapt a tariff structure leading towards the long-run marginal
cost methodology;
11.1.3      to address appropriately the issue of cost recovery for other
services, e.g. drainage, sewerage;
11.1.4      to provide an appropriate guidance to the charges to be applied to
large, medium, small, commercial and domestic consumers.
11.2        DWASA will take actions to adjust its tariffs annually as
required, based on an agreed inflation index, and to meet its
financial objectives for the period FY97 to FY01, to enable it to
achieve the performance targets in the Annex.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF GOB AND DWASA
12.         Arrears from Government Departments for Water Supplied
GOB commits to cause Government departments to settle outstanding
arrears to DWASA including setting up a mechanism to ensure that
receivables from Government Departments are no more than 90 days
of billings, and by making the appropriate annual budgets
allocation for these arrears.
13.         DWASA Interest and Principle Arrears
DWASA commits to prepare by March each year, repayment schedule
for arrears of interest and principle obligations under the three
IDA credits onlent to it by GOB.
14.         Recovery of Current Accounts From Government Departments
GOB shall ensure that all government departments, Ministries and
parastatals who use DWASA water do so as consumers of DWASA and
that they will respect the terms and conditions of supply,
including timely payment of water charges. GOB ensure that such
departments settle water charges within three months of receipt of
bills.
15.         Disconnection of Water Supplv
DWASA shall disconnect water supply to any government, parastatal
or private consumer with more than three months of unpaid bills.
Resuming water supply shall be subject to resettlement of the sum
due, plus payment of any reconnection charges and penalties.
16.         Compensation due to Obligations imposed by GOB
Whereby, for general public welfare, GOB directs DWASA to
undertake any special obligations or works which increases its
operating costs, or reduces its revenues, (e.g. maintain Dhaka
City's drainage system), GOB will compensate DWASA to the extent



Annex 2.3
Page 7 of 8
of such costs and losses within six months of the receipt of
financial records confirming such costs.
17.         Audit of Accounts and Statements of Expenses
No later than two months after the end of each year, DWASA must
have its accounts for the year audited by independent auditors.
Such an audit would include authentification of DWASA's financial
statements, Project Accounts covering investments under the DWASA
IV Project, and Statement of Expenses, also under the project.
18.         Submission of Annual Reports
Each year after completion of the audit, DWASA will submit to GOB
an Annual Report, along with the final Audit Report within three
months of the final Audit report submitted by auditors.
19.         Financial Statements to be produced by DWASA
DWASA agrees to prepare monthly financial statements consisting-of
income statement, balance sheet and sources, and uses of funds on
an ongoing basis. DWASA also agrees to submit to GOB through its
Board, three months before the end of each fiscal year:
19.1        a detailed budget for the next fiscal year;
19.2        detailed financial forecasts (income statements, balance sheet,
and sources and uses of funds statement) for three fiscal years,
updated annually, with a summary of the investments to be   -
undertaken and their costs.
20.         Legal and Regulatory Aspects
20.1        GOB and DWASA will prepare and publish regulations which will make
the theft of water a punishable offence;
20.2        GOB will take the required legal and administrative actions to
support DWASA to implement the program, this contract, Performance
Agreement and other policies, including the required legal
amendments to existing legislation.
PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT MANAGEMENT
21.         Performance Evaluation
DWASA shall install by FY98 a system of effective performance
evaluation to steer its performance in the desired direction. The
evaluation system shall be based on the principle that DWASA's
performance should be assessed against pre-determined targets.
The evaluation system shall have three basic elements-
21.1        A performance information system to measure actual performance;
21.2        A performance evaluation system to specify desirable performance;



Annex 2.3
Page 8 of 8
21.3        An incentive system to link desirable performance with a set of
monetary and non-monetary incentives.
22.         Performance Indicators
22.1        To measure the achievements under this agreement, DWASA shall
issue, along with the annual budgets, the indicators to be
achieved each year; which will be submitted to MLGRDC. Within
three months after the end of the fiscal year, DWASA will issue
updated values of the indicators, stating the actual values
achieved during the previous year and justification for such
updates, if any.
22.2        GOB commits to provide satisfactory autonomy to DWASA to achieve
the given targets.
23.         Performance Monitoring 
23.1        To follow-up the execution of this Agreement and the indicators, a
review committee shall be established consisting of DWASA and
MLGRDC representatives. The committee will monitor progress on a
quarterly basis, and will provide interim review reports after
each quarter, and an annual review report at the end of the fiscal
year.
23.2        GOB will evaluate performance based on the annual review report,
which will form the basis for performance incentives against a
pre-determined formula.
23.3        The annual review report for each year will include an update of
the objectives for the ensuing fiscal year and forecasts for the
following three years.
23.4        In case of continued non-compliance with the provisions of this
Performance Agreement and agreed performance targets, GOB will
take action, through the Board, for the immediate dismissal and
replacement of the concerned individuals in DWASA responsible for
DWASA's performance within six month(s).
23.5        GOB in conjunction with the Board, may prescribe other penalties
as they see fit for non-compliance with the provisions of this
Agreement.
24.         Effective Date:
This Agreement is effective from the date of signature thereof by
both the parties.
25.         Subscription:
This Agreement will be signed by the Managing Director on behalf
of DWASA and an official of the Ministry of Local Government of a
rank no less than a Joint Secretary on behalf of the Government of
Bangladesh.



Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Contractinx Out of DWASA Services
INTRODUCTION
1.        As part of an efficiency drive, Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority (DWASA) proposes to "Contract-out", on a trial basis, two of its
operational activities in two zonal supply areas.   The operations are meter
reading including installation or replacement and repair of defective consumer
meters billing and collection.  This approach has become necessary because of
increasing water and revenue losses due to (i) non-working meters; (ii) absence
of meter reader incentives and integrity control; (iii) delays in replacing
defective meters; and (iv) physical and administrative losses in the
secondary/tertiary distribution system.
2.        There are some firms in Dhaka with the resources and the understanding
of the work to be done as envisaged under this contract. Accordingly, offers are
being invited from these firms for evaluation together with any other companies
or agencies with experience or knowledge in operating water supply systems and
billing procedures. Some of the companies in question have already worked with
DWASA on analyzing system operations and measures to combat losses. However, it
is intended that this task will generate a degree of competition between bidders
with a proper understanding of the work to be done and the ability to mobilize
the resources required. In addition, it has been agreed that one zone would be
contracted out to DWASA's workers' union along the same terms as those applicable
to the commercial operators. This will foster competition initially, and both
contracts would be reviewed after a year, to assess the success of each, and
provide a basis for renewal, cancellation of either or both contracts.
Type of Contract:
3.        The  contracti (or  contracts)  to  be  drawn-up,  would  give  some
incentive to increase the numbers of meters read and replaced and the level of
billing and collections.  Additionally, it would include a control element to
ensure that reliable meter readings are obtained, on which DWASA's customers can
be billed.   The contract will include a payment schedule for replacing non
working meters with new or refurbished meters from DWASA Stores and may also
allow access by the contractor to DWASA's meter repair workshop to carry out
repairs and recalibrate meters. However, these facilities are limited and the
contractor may well decide to establish his own repair facilities or make other
arrangements.
4.        The contract will be written to encourage the conversion of non-metered
connections to ones with working meters. Meter removal, repair, recalibration
and reinstallation will be carried out by the contractor. The contractor will
also prepare DWASA bills for customers still being charged on the basis of
1 Outline attached.



Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 4
property values.
5.        The successful bidders would be provided with computer equipment
purchased by DWASA for use in zonal billing, using the present billing proforma.
The billing, therefore, would be designed with an interface compatible with
DWASA's billing computer which is to be incrementally strengthened under the
project. In this regard, there must be full co-ordination between DWASA and the
firm that installed DWASA's software.
6.        As part of the meter reading work and billing process the contractor
will report system leaks.  The repair of these leaks may be the subject of a
separate priced contract either with the meter reading contractor or another
procured by DWASA. Such repairs may also include necessary pipe replacement.
It is already the practice for DWASA to execute such works as individual small
scale contracts.
Monitoring & Evaluation
7.        To assess the effectiveness of "contract out program", DWASA will start
by costing the "in house" part of this operation, in the pilot zones, associated
with the current stream of revenues. This information will be compared with
improvements, if any, in metering and billing resulting from the "contracting
out" process. The trial period will run for not less than 12 months and will be
extended to two additional zones after the first twelve months. It is expected
that by FY99, all zones will be covered under the program.
Timetable for Preparation/Execution by DWASA
-   Preparation of suitable bid document ---  May 15, 1996
-   Receipt of expressions interest from ---  June 15, 1996
-   Issue and receive bids ---  September 24, 1996
-   Evaluate bids, award contract and commence work--- November 30, 1996
-   Evaluate performance of contractor within 9 months of commencement and
negotiate contract extension or prepare for further bidding.



Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 4
METER READING AND REPLACEMENT
CONTRACT OUTLINE
The principal items to be included and developed by DWASA into a
suitable contract bidding document which can be used for engaging a contractor
to read revenue meters and carry out necessary replacements are given in this
outline. This work would be carried out on a "trial basis" as an alternative to
the present "in-house" system where a number of inefficiencies have been
identified.
The supply areas to be covered by this proposal would be DWASA's Zone
4 & 5 containing about 19,000 connections each.  Zone 5 is almost completely
metered but there is no up-to-date of how many meters are actually working. Zone
4 is more representative of the undermetering problem and is selected because,
as well as tackling billing and collection, it will enable the meter coverage to
be increased significantly.   It is proposed that the entire zones should be
covered with the possibility of an extension to other areas.
Contract Information to be Provided by DWASA
(a) Customers billing record, including postal addresses
(b) Number of revenue meters and sizes
(c) Number of unmetered connections and pipe sizes
(d) The number and sizes of new meters which could be released from
DWASA's stores
(e) DWASA Unit Cost for repairing and rehabilitating meters of various
sizes
(f) Delivery time for DWASA repaired meters; i.e. in and out of workshop.
(g) A route walking map of the area covered by the contract
(h) Detailed   drawing   of  a  meter   box/chamber   installation  and
specification.
(i) Meter specification with stated plus and minus accuracy.
Work Description
The contract would, as fully as possible, describe the work to be
carried out.   This calls for reading meters every 2 months, preparing and
delivering bills and monitoring collections. The contractor who would also be
responsible for following up defaulters; for this to be done DWASA would keep the
contractor informed on collection deficiencies.
At the same time as submitting meter readings the contractor would
provide the zonal office with a list of unmetered connections recommended for



Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 4
conversions.   The contractor would obtain approval for a planned conversion
program with new meters, available in DWASA stores, or repaired units.   To
expedite this work the contractor may make his own arrangements for obtaining
meters that comply with DWASA's own specifications.
The contractor would undertake the following:
(i)     for each meter reader collect at least 750 meter readings per
month;
(ii)    arrange a cost effective system for delivering bills;
(iii)   assess meter accuracy in relation to size of buildings/number
of apartments/occupants and make checks where underbilling is
suspected due to faulty or tampered meters;
(iv)    investigate and report illegal connections and by-passes;
(v)     establish a rolling program for meter testing and replacement;
(vi)    computerize the consumer record and submit to DWASA's computer
center every month; and
(vii)   submit reports on billing,  collection, meter testing and
repairs.
Payment Schedule (Bill of Quantities)
Payment for meter reading preparation and delivery of bills would be
on a simple unit price based on 6 readings per calendar year for each property.
Payment would be on a performance basis, i.e. bills delivered and collections
received by DWASA The billing for un-metered customers would be based on DWASA's
property value formula.
Where new meters are installed or replaced a unit price would also
apply. One price would be for replacement, the other would be for a complete
installation, including the meter box, if any. A separate unit price would be
given where the contractor supplied the meter.
Supervision
DWASA's zonal supervisors would be responsible for overseeing the
contract and certifying payments under the contract. Currently, in zone 3 there
are 4 DWASA meter/connection supervisors and 40 inspectors (meter readers).
Evaluation of Bids
DWASA will evaluate bids submitted both on price and the contractors'
understanding of the work to be done and the contractors' ability to mobilize
resources. Accordingly, as well as a priced bid, contractors will be asked to
submit an adequate work plan.



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Detailed Description of Proposed Water Treatment Plant
1.          The proposed treatment plant will include the construction of the
following subcomponents:
A.    Pumping Station, Intake Works and Twin Culvert.
i)    Intake Structure:  The location of the intake structure will be
about 400 meters down stream of Demra Ghat at Sarulia village.
A conventional intake with bar racks to provide screening of
raw water will be constructed off-shore in the river bed. The
intake will have a capacity of 275 IMGD of water to enter the
new raw water pumping station. The intake structure is
designed to operate over a wide variety of river levels so that
during the wet season, it will not be necessary to pump water
from the river into the canal.
ii)   Raw Water Pumping Station:  A raw water pumping station at the
river front will be constructed to pump water into the DND
Canal. The pump station will accommodate pumps needed for 125
IMGD raw water with a provision of another 150 IMGD in future.
The initial electro-mechanical works will be limited to 60 IMGD
(50 IMGD for treatment and 10 IMGD for canal logging). Water
will be pumped in the dry season when the water levels in the
dry season fall under a certain levels.
iii) Twin Culvert: Water will be carried from the raw water pumping
station to the DND canal at Karim Jute Mills by a twin RCC
culvert with a capacity of 275 IMGD. A control structure
equipped with penstocks and stop logs will be constructed on
the culvert to regulate the flow, to clean the culvert i.e. by
sending the flow in one direction, and to close the flow in
case of emergency.
B.    Rehabilitation of the DND Canal.
The DND canal was built by the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) for irrigation purposes. In March 1993, an agreement was
signed between BWDB and the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
(DWASA) for the joint use of a part of the main canal for the purpose
of the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project. DWASA will use the part of
the canal located from Sarulia to Kajla to convey raw water from the
Lakhya river to the site of the water treatment plant at Saidabad.
The length of the canal to be used by DWASA is 4.6 km with an average
width of about 40 meters. To secure this canal from potential
pollution and to introduce overflow structures for maintaining the
canal operation level at 5.00 meters about PWD levels, rehabilitation
works will be undertaken. This will include: (a) repair of
embankments on both sides of the canal and removal of trees and



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 3
stand wall with intermediate gullies in turn draining under the road
to the north; (d) security overflow weirs connected with the existing
drainage system of the DND irrigation project; (e) an isolating
embankment (cross dam) at the head of the canal to isolate the
southern part to be used by BWDB for irrigation purposes; and (f)
rehabilitation of temporary pedestrian crossings over the canal and
provision of alternative water supplies (handpumps) to residents who
currently use the canal for washing.
C.    Culvert from DND Canal to Treatment Plant Site.  The DND canal
terminates at a point 1.6 km from the Saidabad Treatment Plant Site.
To link the canal to the water pumping station within the treatment
plant site, a second twin box culvert will be constructed with the
ultimate capacity of 200 IMGD. An intake structure at the canal and
control structure on the culvert will also be constructed.
D.    Development of the Treatment Plant Site.  The present site is at
average ground level of 2-3 meters, and is, in consequence, prone to
flooding every wet season. To make the site suitable for
construction, DWASA will require special foundation (piles/rafts) in
order to construct the works. The site development will raise the
platform level to 8.00 meters suitable for construction of the plant
and subsequent operation and maintenance. Backfill will involve
about 500,000 m3 of earth work, followed by 90Z compaction of
standard proctor test.
E.    Saidabad Treatment Plant.  A conventional surface water treatment
plant with a capacity of 50 mgd will be constructed. The electro-
mechanical equipment will be manufactured, delivered, installed and
commissioned under turnkey arrangement, with limited competitive
bidding. The scope of work for the plant will include:
i)    Raw water pumping station and distribution arrangements with
civil works of 200 IMGD capacity, but electro-mechanical and
equipment limited to 52.5 IMGD;
ii)   Mixing tanks and flow distribution arrangements;
Clarifiers and filter batteries;
iii) Chlorine control tank and-treated water reservoir;
iv)   Treated water pumping station;
v)    Main power switchboard and transformer buildings;
vi)   Chemical storage building, chemical mixing tanks, and
chlorination building;
vii) Sludge recovery facilities; and
viii) Standby power generation and miscellaneous works.
F.    Ancillary Structures at Treatment Plant.  This will comprise of the
following:



Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 3
i)    Administration building and laboratory;
ii)   Maintenance Workshop;
iii) Site clearing, fencing, road drainage and site lighting;
iv)   Pavement of access road after completion of construction activities;
and
v)    Provision of gas, electricity and telephone facilities.
G.    TransmissionlPrimary Distribution Mains.  About 20 km of transmission
and primary mains will be constructed. The procurement and
implementation of primary distribution mains will be on a "supply and
lay" basis. Pipe will be in the diameter range 1,000 mm to 1,500 mm.
Dual pipelines will be laid along the routes where there is no major
traffic congestion.
H.    Secondary Distribution System.   Approximately 18.5 km of secondary
mains will be constructed. New distribution pipelines, diameter
range 300 mm to 600 mm will be laid in those areas of the city
whether new treated water sources will be available to improve the
local hydraulic capacity for supply to existing and new consumers in
each sub-zone. In addition, new areas will be supplied with water
for the first time by DWASA and the new secondary distribution
pipelines will be laid in each sub-zone.
2.          Water Treatment Method.  Raw water transmitted to the treatment plant
would initially receive chemical mixing before passing to the clarifiers. The
process treatment steps would be chemical injection, rapid mixing, flocculation
and clarification. Chemicals added at this point would include alum for
coagulation purposes and chlorine, if necessary, for the control of aquatic
growths within the clarifiers and filters. From the rapid mixing tanks, water
would flow to clarification tanks. Clarified water would then flow by gravity to
the filter influent head channels. Filtered water would flow by gravity into the
clearwell which would be pumped into the treated water reservoir. The storage
reservoir is 8% of the plant's rated capacity.



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Detailed Description of Institutional Strengthening,
Loss Reduction and Technical Assistance Components
1.          Distribution and Production Svstem Rehabilitation
i)    Leak  Detection  Program:    A  leak  detection  program  will  be
implemented in the DWASA service area as a follow up to the pilot
program undertaken in a DWASA zone under the Third DWASA Project
(Cr.1734-BD. The program will be undertaken in three phases; Phase
I will revisit the two pilot areas under the Third Project; Phase II
will cover about 70,000 connections, while the Third Phase will
cover about 80,000 connections.
ii) System Rehabilitation: Based on the Leak Detection program in (i)
above, a program for system rehabilitation for the entire service
area will be implemented. This program will consist of replacement
and repair of broken or worn pipes, defective or unsuitable meters
and fittings, valves, and preparation and implementation of a
preventive maintenance program for the whole distribution system.
iii)  Tubewell Regeneration:   A tubewell regeneration program will be
prepared and implemented to improve the production efficiency of
DWASA's tubewells. The program will seek to replace or reset wells
that are non-operative due to sand clogging or whose yields have
deteriorated.    A  preventive  maintenance  program will  also  be
prepared and implemented.
2.          Expansion of Service Connections
i)    Tertiary Distribution and House Connections:   This will include
extension of the existing connections to provide water to areas of
Dhaka that are currently not connected to DWASA services.   About
50,000 new connections will be installed by the year 2001.
ii)   Crash Meter Installation Program:  The objective of this program is
to install meters to connections that are currently not metered, to
reduce the level of unbilled water and thereby increase revenue.
The program will reduce unmetered connections from the current 32%
to 5% within two years. The program will be contracted out to the
private sector.
3.          Development of Improved Sanitation/Sewerage Services
i)    Evaluation Stud_y:  This study will: a) review the existing situation
to determine the key problems and issues in sanitation and
collection of waste water and sewerage from domestic, industrial and
commercial sources in the city; and b) estimate the demand for
various sanitation options and determine the investment options



Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 3
available, including detailed preparation of priority investments to
be implemented under the project.
ii)   Physical Works/Sewerage and Latrines:  Based on the evaluation study
above, priority investments will be undertaken in rehabilitation of
selected sections of the sewerage system, and a low cost sanitation
program to be implemented under the project. The program will also
provide limited expansion of sewerage services to unserviced areas
of the city.
4.          Institutional Development Technical Assistance
i)    Water Resources Management Study:  The objectives of this two year
study are to obtain adequate knowledge of the water resources (both
ground and surface water) in the Dhaka region to facilitate the
monitoring of quality and quantity of resources and allow effective
demand management to conserve and utilize available water more
efficiently.
ii)   Management and Operations Support (Twinning) Program:  To help DWASA
improve efficiency, a twinning program from an efficient utility
will be sought for a period of four and half years. The program
will address problems and issues in operations and maintenance;
financial and operational management, personnel management and
training; management information systems and computerization.
iii)  Program to Contract Out DWASA Services:   To improve operational
efficiency, DWASA will commence a program to contract out some of
its services to local contractors.   The contracts call for the
reading of meters, preparation of bills, delivery of bills, follow-
up of defaulters in case of non-payment, meter repair and
replacements. The program will start in two zones of DWASA service
area and experience in these zones will be used for planning
additional contracting services.
iv)   Training:   Training will be provided to DWASA staff to improve
skills in financial, operational and technical operation of the
utility. Training would be based on a manpower and organizational
study to be undertaken under the Twinning Program. Training will be
provided on the job, through the DWASA Training Institute, and
abroad to enable DWASA staff and management gain specific skills
required  for  utility  operation.    Training  will  also  include
secondment of DWASA staff to the utility of the twinning partner to
facilitate appropriate technology transfer.
v)    Management  Support  (Contract  Staff):        An  experienced  and
appropriately skilled managing director, and three deputy managing
directors will be appointed under the project and provided with
appropriate financial incentives commensurate with their skills. To
attract staff with necessary skills, these positions will be filled
by local contract staff, to be initially financed under the project,
with   the   objective   of   gradually   transferring   financial
responsibility to DWASA.   The initial contracts will be over a
period of four years.



Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 3
vi)   Strateav Study for Private Sector Participation:   To assist in
developing a long term strategy for mobilizing finance and
increasing efficiency, DWASA will retain consultants to determine
the broad levels of finance required, and the sum available from
different Government concessional and commercial sources. The study
will assist in demonstrating the need for fundamental reform in
order to attract the required finance.   It will also assess the
steps required for reform implementation, including the development
of a regulatory framework, and will outline the possible contractual
and financial structure for major private sector participation, for
example, through a long term concession.   The study findings are
expected in early 1986. Action taken in response to the study will
be covered in the mid-term review.
5.          Prolect Preparation and Implementation Support Technical Assistance
i)    Project Preparation:  Two consultants to be financed retroactively
have been appointed to prepare two remaining components of the
project: a) revision of the WASA Ordinance to create legislation
that will allow DWASA to operate as a commercial entity; and b)
detailed design and preparation of bid documents for ancillary
works.
ii)   Construction Supervision and Network Analysis:   The project will
require two construction supervision contracts: a) construction
supervision of the treatment plant; and b) construction supervision
of the primary, secondary and tertiary distribution system and the
intake. The second contract will include a network analysis of the
distribution system to identify areas of the distribution system
that need strengthening and extending, using a computer analysis of
the network (WATNET), with a planning horizon of 2010.
iii)  Equipment:   Miscellaneous  equipment,  including motor vehicles,
computers and 50,000 meters will be procured under the project.
iv)   Implementation  of Tariff  Study:    A  local  consultant will  be
appointed to help DWASA implement a revised tariff structure based
on the results of the Tariff Study completed recently by the
Government.



Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 8
Bangladesh
Fourth Dhaka Water SuPPlY Proiect
Strategv to Mobilize Finance and Increase Efficiency in the Dhaka Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector
Draft Terms of Reference
I     BACKGROUND
1.    The Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) provides drinking
water to 3.8 million people in Dhaka  and sewerage services to around 1.14
million people. It is owned by the Government of Bangladesh, and responsible to
the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Co-operatives.
2.    DWASA is inefficient.  There are high levels of unaccounted for water,
which have exceeded 50% in recent years. Staff numbers are excessive, at around
22 staff per thousand connections. Tariffs are high, with residential consumers
paying Taka 15.84 per 1,000 gallons (equivalent to US$0.09 per cubic meter).
Industrial and commercial consumers pay much higher levels, and many choose to
make their own arrangements for water supply. Although DWASA has had access to
concessional lending and grants, its financial performance has been poor.
3.    The coverage of drinking water and sewerage is low.  Only 50% of Dhaka's
population is provided with drinking water, and 15% with water-borne sewerage
services. Actual numbers are likely to be above this, since some unaccounted for
water is for illegal connections.
4.    The proposed Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project will provide drinking water
to a further 500,000 people, and reduce levels of unaccounted for water.
However, given the population growth over the period this will still leave major
investment requirements. Rough estimates of the investment required to provide
drinking water to all Dhaka's population and sewerage to 60% by 2010 suggest that
as much as $1.5-2 billion might be required over the next fifteen years.
II    OBJECTIVES
5.    A strategy  is required  to raise this  finance,  and to increase the
efficiency of water and sewerage provision. To date water and sewerage has been
supplied by a public enterprise drawing heavily on concessional lending.
However,  the sums now required   greatly exceed the finance available from
concessional lenders. In its current form DWASA would not have access to this
scale of finance from commercial sources.
6.    The objective of the study is to prepare a strategy that will enable the
Government of Bangladesh to raise the finance required for an accelerated
investment programme and to increase the efficiency with which investments are
implemented and operated. In preparing that strategy the consultants should:



Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 8
*     agree a set of options to be considered for the future structure of the
sector, and for responsibilities for investment and operations;
*     prepare an estimate of investment costs for an accelerated investment
programme;
*     amend existing forecasts of operating costs and revenues to be consistent
with  the  accelerated  investment  programme,  and  with  the  expected
efficiency of operations under different options; and
*     review the scale of funds available from different sources and the terms
attached to them, to determine the feasibility and cost of financing the
accelerated investment programme under different options.
7.    The objective of the study is to assist the Government of Bangladesh in
understanding, and selecting between, options for financing and managing future
water and sewerage provision. The consultants will be required to work closely
with Government throughout ths- study.  A Steering Committee will be convened by
Government to guide the consultants, and to monitor and respond to the key
deliverables described below. The consultants will arrange for key officials to
have exposure to private sector operators, and to visit cities where greater
private sector participation is being introduced in the water sector.
II    SCOPE OF WORK
Overall approach
8.    The consultants should review a broad range of options for ownership,
operation and industry  structure.   These  should include  continued public
enterprise reform, and differing forms of private sector participation.   The
profitability of DWASA (or any successor body), and its access to the required
finance should be estimated for each option. Options which are not capable of
raising the required finance should be rejected, but should be included in the
report with detailed anaysis.
9.    There are likely to be a number of different options under which DWASA
would be capable of financing the proposed increase in service provision. The
costs associated with these options should be modelled. The final tariff impact
should be assessed for different options, as well as the transitional costs (such
as demanning) associated with them.   The consultants should also review the
regulatory and legal requirements associated with each option.
10.   Detailed analysis should be presented for each option capable of financing
the required expansion.   The consultants should also indicate the preferred
option.
Options for-consideration
11.   The consultants should prepare options for ownership of the assets,
responsibility for operation and industry structure. These should include one
or more options for public enterprise reform from continued public ownership with
differing forms of private sector participation up to full privatization.



Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 8
12.   The option for continued public enterprise reform would continue DWASA's
ownership and operation responsibility.   However, it should incorporate the
institutional changes agreed in preparation of the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply
project. These include steps to organise DWASA along more commercial lines;
creation of internal profit centres; contracting out of billing, collections and
meter repair; and support through a twinning programme, training and other
technical--assistance.
13.   The consultants will need to form a realistic and soundly based assessment
of the likely impact of these reforms on DWASA's efficiency, profitability and
access to finance. This will require an understanding of the success of such
reform measures elsewhere, and in particular in other sectors in Bangladesh.
14.   The consultants  should also review possible forms of private sector
participation. These should include:
*     further contracting out of specified services, in addition to that already
proposed, or modification to existing contracts;
*     contracting out of new investment through BOO or BOT financing;
*     a management contract;
*     private sector responsibility for operations, including working capital,
combined with public sector responsibility for major investments;
*   _ a long term concession,  with private  sector responsibility  for all
investments over the life of the concession; and
*     privatization.
15.   The consultants should cover the options described above.  However, they
can also propose alternative forms of private sector participation or public
enterprise reform for inclusion within the study.
16.   At present DWASA is an integrated utility.  The consultants should consider
the scope for vertical or horizontal separation, where this would provide greater
transparency in operational performance and stronger incentives for efficiency.
However, the dominant objective is to assist in the mobilization of finance.
Where unbundling would increase risk to an unacceptable degree and so hinder
financing this should be stated.
17.   The deliverables from this work will be a set of options for detailed
consideration. The development of these options will be reviewed and commented
upon by the Steering Committee.
Financial Projections
18.   Financial projections have been made in preparation for the Fourth Water
Supply project. These financial projections will need to be updated. They will
also need to be amended to allow for achievable efficiency gains and increased
financing requirements.



Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 8
19.   The financial projections should be prepared to allow for fully meeting the
demand for water and meeting the 60% of the demand for sewerage.  Costs and
revenues should be projected for meeting this level of coverage by 2010 and 2020.
Demand forecasts should be based on those prepared by BCEOM, but DWASA's views
should also be taken into consideration.
Operating costs
20.   DWASA incurs very high electricity costs for water pumping, and these
account for 60X of operating costs.  Direct wages and salaries account for a
further 15%. Repairs and maintenance account for only 6% of direct expenses, and
this inadequate funding is leading to deterioration of the network.   The
consultants should assess operating costs; determine what these might be
following implementation of the proposed reforms to DWASA; and determine how
operating costs might change as service provision increases.
21.   The Fourth Water Supply project will achieve significant changes in DWASA's
status and structure, strengthen DWASA's management, and provide technical
assistance to increase management capability and DWASA's efficiency. It will be
important to have a realistic view of what efficiency gains can be achieved
through public enterprise reform in the operating environment faced by DWASA, and
to incorporate these in the revised financial projections.   The consultants
should review the reform experience of other utilities in Bangladesh, and draw
on experience of water utility reform in other developing countries, in
particular South and South/East Asia.
22.   Significant private sector participation is likely to change fixed and
variable operating costs.   The consultants should prepare estimates of what
further changes in operating efficiency could be achieved under different
options. Where significant transitional costs are incurred these should be
incorporated in the analysis. For example, it is possible that a private sector
operator would achieve greater reductions in fixed labour costs, but would incur
a transitional cost for redundancy payments/redeployment.
Investment costs
23.   Investment needs to 2020 have already been assessed in a study carried out
by BCEOM. The consultants should review this work, and prepare outline estimates
of the costs of an accelerated investment programme. Two accelerated programmes
should be prepared, to allow for 100% drinking water provision and 60% provision
of water-borne sewerage by 2010 and by 2020.
24.   It is not envisaged that the study recommendations will be sensitive to the
level of investment costs, and if necessary the financial analysis can be amended
at a later date once the findings of other studies emerge (such as the
Feasibility Study for Improved Sanitation Services). Cost estimates should only
be approximate. Where possible they should be based on the BCEOM study. Where
new investment costs need to be estimated, these should be based on simple unit
cost estimates.
25.   The scale of investment required will vary according to the efficiency of
operations. Investment costs should be adjusted to allow for the variations in
operating efficiency discussed above, and in particular the variations in levels



Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 8
of unaccounted for water.
Costs of Capital
26.   Over recent years, DWASA has made a net loss.  However, it has had access
to low cost capital from bilateral and multilateral sources. Capital investments
have been financed through substantial levels of grant, and through foreign
exchange loans with 25 years repayment, 5 years grace, and interest rates ranging
from 3-12.5Z. The consultants should review DWASA's financing costs over recent
years to determine the historic costs of capital.
27.   The financial projections should allow for the expected future costs of
capital.   Under the public enterprise reform option,  possible  sources of
financing will include:
*     a higher level of self-financing, due to greater profitability;
*     continued concessional lending.   The consultants should review the scale
of funds and the likely terms for future concessional lending from the
IBRD, ADB and bilateral concessional sources. Discussion with the Ministry
of Finance will be required to assess the on-lending terms to be attached
to any finance from concessional sources;
*     Government grants or loans.   The consultants  should agree with the
Ministry of Finance the scale of funds and terms for Government finance;
and
*     lending from commercial sources.  The consultants should review the scale
and terms of commercial lending to DWASA under credible public enterprise
reforms.
28.   The expected return on equity and costs of debt for private sector
participation in major investments, through BOO/BOT financing or a long term
concession, should be assessed to determine the cost of capital associated with
private sector participation.
29.   The consultants should determine the possible scale and cost of private
sector finance-through discussion with possible operators and review of private
sector participation elsewhere in Asia. The level of risk which the private
sector is willing to accept should be assessed and conclusions drawn on the
requirements for guarantees against specific risks.
Revenues
30.   Revisions to the tariff structure and levels have been agreed during the
preparation of the Fourth Water Supply project. The consultants should prepare
revenue projections associated with the accelerated investment programme,
allowing for any variations in estimated commercial performance and collection
under different options.
31.   This analysis should be used to prepare revised financial forecasts for
DWASA. These forecasts would be used to assess the feasibility and cost of
financing accelerated investment under different scenarios for public enterprise



Annex 3.3
Page 6 of 8
reform and private sector participation; the effect of achievable efficiency
gains; and the impact on tariffs.
32.   The deliverables from this work would be a set of outline financial
forecasts associated with each of the options described above. These forecasts
would be presented to the Steering Committee and amended in the light of comments
received.
Preferred option
33.   The analysis described above would start with a wide range of options.  It
is expected that some of these options would not be capable of raising the
required finance, or could only do so at  a very high cost of capital.  The
consultants would reject these options/giving justification for such rejection.
34. Options that enabled the required finance to be raised would be examined in
greater detail.
35.   For options with greater private sector participation the consultants
should describe:
*     the proposed contractual structure; and
*     the allocation of risk between the parties, including any guarantors.
36.   Greater private sector participation will require development of an
appropriate legal framework and of regulation. For each option the consultants
should propose an appropriate form of regulation.    Where this requires an
autonomous regulatory body, the consultant should describe the scope of work of
the regulatory body, its legislative underpinning, its financing, and ways in
which regulatory autonomy can be ensured.
37.   For each feasible alternative, the consultants will assess the step6
required for implementation. Any requirements for legislative change would be
described. A timetable for implementation of each feasible option should be
given.
38.   The consultants should assess the political and other costs associated with
greater private sector participation. This will include the possible impact on
employment and tariffs.
39.   Where there is likely to be substantial demanning, they should propose
solutions that would make the social cost acceptable, and they should assess the
costs of redundancy payments or other interventions.
40.  Where tariff increases are required, the consultants should assess the
social impact. If tariff increases have an unacceptable impact on low-income
groups, offsetting measures should be proposed and costed.
41.   The consultants should clearly and concisely summarise the feasibility of
financing an accelerated investment programme under different forms of public
enterprise reform and private sector participation. The consultant should



Annex 3.3
Page 7 of 8
recommend the option which meets the objectives of heightened efficiency and
resource mobilisation most effectively. The main selection criteria should be
the impact on consumer tariffs. However, the consultants should also propose
alternative selection criteria (such as ease of implementation) if appropriate.
42.   The deliverables from this work will be detailed analysis of feasible
options, a recommended option for mobilising finance and a timetable for
Implementation. This will form the basis of a policy dialogue between the World
Bank and the Government of Bangladesh on the way forward.
Capacity buildina
43.   The purpose of this study is to assist the Government of Bangladesh in
providing drinking water and sewerage services.  It is likely that this will
require a higher degree of private sector participation.   A key element of
success will therefore be the ability to develop an understanding of the
rationale for private sector participation, and the different forms of private
participation open to Bangladesh.
44.   The consultants should work closely with officials of DWASA, the Ministry
of Local Government and the Ministry of Finance throughout the study.   In
addition, the study should allow for visits by key Government and utility
officials to developing countries that are successfully developing greater
private sector participation, as well as exposure to possible private sector
operators.
45.   The deliverables from this work will be a deeper understanding of the
reasons for and process of private sector participation in the Government of
Bangladesh.
III   Study Organisation and Inputs
46.   The study will address fundamental issues in the approach to financing
infrastructure provision in Bangladesh. It may recommend major policy shifts.
A Steering Committee will be convened to ensure that the study effectively
responds to the concerns of the Government of Bangladesh. The Steering Committee
will include representatives from the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Finance and the Economic Relations
Department. The Steering Committee will be chaired by the Secretary for Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives.
47.   DWASA will be work closely with the study team.  Two counterparts within
DWASA will be nominated to work with the study team on cost analysis and
preparation of the financial forecasts.
48.   DWASA will provide the consultants with access to all available data and
internal documents. DWASA will also arrange access to facilities as required,
and to key officials within government.   Office space,  telephone and fax
facilities will be provided at DWASA's office.
49.   The study will be undertaken over an elapsed time of five months.
Reporting requirements will be as shown below.



Annex 3.3
Page 8 of 8
Table 1: Reporting Requirements
Report                       Number of copies        Timing in weeks from
start date
Reform Options                      10                         4
Revised financial                   10                        15
forecast
Analysis and                        10            1           20
recommendation                                                              l
50.   The study is expected to require around twelve man-months consultancy
input.



Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
PROPOSED FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Feasibility Study for Improved Sanitation Services
Draft Outline Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project includes a technical assistance
component for the preparation of a comprehensive plan to address the sanitation
and sewerage problems of the city. It also includes financial resources for the
implementation of a modest sanitation/sewerage component to be identified as the
first stage of a longer term program for which future funding will be sought.
2.        The study will be conducted in  two parts:  (i)  a comprehensive
evaluation of the current problem including a projection of demand covering the
period 1995-2010; and (ii) the identification of an agreed component for which
detailed design and bidding documents will be prepared.
II. BACKGROUND
3.        The Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project has institutional and physical
investment components.   The institutional component is aimed at reforms that
would enable Dhaka WASA to operate more efficiently. The physical component is
intended to augment the water supply by about 50 IMGD1 as the first phase of a
development program aimed at increasing Dhaka's water supply by about 250 IMGD
over a period of 20 years.   Up to now, the water supply of Dhaka has been
obtained mainly from deep tube wells distributed over the city. The proposed
project would change this; in addition to the existing multi-point ground water
supply system, the project envisages a surface water intake structure, together
with a new treatment plant with associated transmission lines and civil works.
4.        The change from a multi-point ground water supply system to a single
point surface water source could have implications for the distribution system
sizes and pressures; it would also have a number of possible environmental
impacts. Augmentation of the supply would result in the generation of additional
waste water flow and inadequate disposal of the additional wastewater may create
a risk of pollution of ground and surface water sources. One of the technical
options for addressing this problem may be to use a combined sewerage system for
the  collection  and  disposal  of  sewage  and  storm water.    However,  the
1 IMGD equals one million imperial gallons per day.  It is equivalent
to 4.546 MI/d or 4,546 m'/d.



Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 8
effectiveness of the solid waste collection and disposal system might affect the
efficacy and sustainability of such a solution; therefore, the sanitation study
should also include an assessment of the adequacy of solid waste and storm
drainage services in Dhaka to determine the reciprocal impact of these elements.
5.        A variety of sanitation2 technologies are used in the city.   An
estimated 15 percent of the population is served through conventional sewerage;
about 30 percent use septic tanks; others use pit latrines, pour flush toilets,
or no formal sanitation facilities. The first sewerage system for Dhaka dates
back to 1923. Since then there has been a number of expansions to the system to
cope with the growing population.   The existing sewerage system covers the
central developed area of Dhaka. It comprises three trunk interceptor sewers,
one central pumping station, 12 small lift stations, and one sewage treatment
plant at Pagla. The system is now aged and deteriorated and portions have become
broken or clogged.
6.        A number of studies have been undertaken to identify remedial measures;
these will be reviewed and used as source material in preparing this study. The
latest were completed in February of 1990 by Messrs CDM and McDonald & Partners.
Under a recent grant from the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
the sewage treatment plant at Pagla which had become overloaded has been
rehabilitated and upgraded; in addition, inoperative pumping and lift stations
have been rehabilitated. There has also been some extension and upgrading of
parts of the system under the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project funded through an
IDA Credit (Credit 1734-BD). However, no comprehensive city-wide evaluation of
the hydraulic and structural condition of the sewerage system has been
undertaken. The need for such an evaluation has become even more pressing as a
result of population growth, the expanding geographical size of the Dhaka WASA
area, and the impact of the additional water production soon to be provided.
7.        On the institutional side, the primary agencies with responsibility for
this component are the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA), and the
Dhaka City Corporation (DCC). DWASA was established in 1963 as a semi-autonomous
authority for the provision of water supply and sanitation services for the City
of Dhaka. It is responsible for sewerage and drainage. Services that entail the
use of low-cost and on-site sanitation systems are the responsibility of DCC
where a low-cost sanitation unit has recently been established. The DCC is also
responsible for solid waste disposal.
8.        DWASA and DCC come under the Local Government Division (LGD) of the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives.   The LGD
regulates the activities of DWASA and DCC; it reviews their project proposals,
2    The term "sanitation" is defined here as a service:  (a) for the
collection and disposal of excreta and wastewater from domestic, commercial and
industrial sources and (b) for the abatement of environmental pollution from such
wastes. The provision of this service entails the construction, operation and
maintenance of a range of physical infrastructure, such as conventional sewerage,
intermediate sewerage and various types of on-site sanitation systems.



Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 8
and monitors their performance in project implementation. Matters relating to
the environment are the responsibility of the Department of Environment (DOE).
III. SCOPE OF WORK
PART l
9.        In carrying out this part of the study the consultant will be given
access by DWASA to all previous studies and be provided with such relevant
information it has at its disposal. The output expected is a prioritized series
of project components aimed at solving the most critical identified sanitation/
sewerage problems of Dhaka.
10.       The output will be in the form of reports, diagrams and maps and also
consist of an Executive Summary.
11.       During the preparation of this part of the study the consultant will
liaise with DWASA (and any other concerned agencies), at regular intervals, to
report interim findings and conclusions to ensure that the final recommendations
identify a costed acceptable sanitation/sewerage component that can be
implemented under the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project.
12.       In the following  summary suggested activities  have been grouped
together for reasons of clarity, but the Consultant shall ensure full cross-
referencing between the tasks described.
Review of Existing Situation
13.       A review of the existing situation is required for defining the key
problems and issues in the collection and disposal of exereta and liquid wastes
from domestic, industrial and commercial sources in the city. The review is also
required to enable the Consultant to identify and estimate the costs of feasible
technical measures to address these issues.   To this end, the task of the
Consultants shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the review
of:
(a) previous studies carried out during the past 15 years in sanitation
services for Dhaka, including recently completed and on-going
projects;
(b) trends in demographic and housing patterns, and in industrial and
commercial development patterns;
(c) existing status and future plans for water supply, sanitation,
industrial and solid waste management, and storm water drainage;
(d) the extent, hydraulic capacity, structural condition, and technical
performance of existing sewerage systems in Dhaka;
(e) existing service levels and deficiencies in sanitation coverage and
operational performance in different parts of the city and in



Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 8
different income groups;
(f) neighborhood    environmental    conditions,    and    city-wide
environmental/water quality conditions, including the extent and risk
of pollution of surface and ground water resources;
(g) financing and cost-recovery policies and achievements;
(h) policy and institutional framework for service provision, including
the share of public and private sector involvement in sanitation
service provision, and the legal and regulatory framework for service
provision;
(i) existing informal organizations in the city (NGOs, voluntary service
organizations and community-based organizations) -- the roles they
have played in the past, and the potential roles they can play in the
provision of improved waste management services; and
(j) water quality standards and pollution control regulations.
14.       Based on this review and on their own investigations, the Consultants
shall prepare a report on existing conditions. The report shall include, but
shall not necessarily be limited to the following:
(a) summary of existing conditions with respect to: (i) coverage and
deficiencies in services at zonal or neighborhood level, (ii)
neighborhood or zonal level environmental quality conditions, and
(iii) the wider environmental/water quality conditions;
(b) existing cost-recovery policies and mechanisms for sewerage and
sanitation services, and the ratio of revenues to investment costs in
sewerage and sanitation services;
(c) issues   constraining   sector   development   in   the   past,   and
recommendations for addressing these issues;
(d) informal organizations in Dhaka City, their past and potential future
roles in waste management;
(e) feasible solutions to the problems identified in each of the three
sub-sectors of waste management; and
(f) cost estimates for each feasible technical solution, calculated on a
zonal or neighborhood basis, or on such other basis as the Consultants
deem appropriate.
Demand Estimation and Choice of Investment Options
15.       A  demand  estimation  is  required  to establish  a basis  for  the
Consultants to elicit from households which types of investments they preferred
and willingness to pay. This information would then be used, along with other



Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 8
information, to help make choices from options in technologies cost-
recovery/financing arrangements.
16.       To this end, the Consultant shall perform, but shall not necessarily
be limited to the following tasks:
(a) household willingness-to-pay studies, using a sampling method which
permits investment decisions to be made on a zonal or neighborhood
basis; this should include an assessment of household knowledge,
attitudes and practices with regard to sanitation, solid waste and
storm drainage services;
(b) community-level dialogue -- where appropriate -- to discuss and
confirm demand; ascertain extent of in-kind contributions, if any; and
identify additional measures communities would be willing to undertake
to ensure effective cost-recovery, and sustainability of the flow of
benefits from proposed investments;
(c) matching the willingness-to-pay with each of the sub-sectors in waste
management, and with the technological options within sub-sectors;
(d) rank ordering the different sub-sectors and the technological options
within sub-sectors, using the following performance criteria:
(i) cost-recovery per unit cost of investment;
(ii) coverage per unit investment cost;
(iii) benefits per unit cost of investment; and
(iv) analyzing the trade-offs between the different criteria.
17.       The relevant revenues that should be used in ratio of cost-recovery per
unit investment cost are (a) direct user charges (estimated on the basis of the
demand information) and (b) local government levies on the beneficiaries of the
investments.  This is consistent with the general principle of cost-recovery
which states that local and regional residents should finance, through user
charges or locally borne taxes, the costs of designing, building, operating, and
maintaining facilities to the extent that they receive the benefits.
18.       Based on the tasks identified in paragraph 16 and on the Consultant's
own investigations, the Consultant shall make recommendations on:
(a) where there should be investments in sanitation infrastructure under
the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project;
(b) how the sanitation investments should be prioritized within the city:
and
(c) what should be the choice of technological facilities in different
locations in the city.



Annex 4.1
Page 6 of 8
Choice of Investment Options
19.       On the basis of these tasks and on own investigations, the Consultant
should prepare a demand-based sustainable sanitation plan for implementation in
the city during the period 1995-2010 in three 5-year periods, and based thereon,
identify priority investments for implementation during the Fourth Dhaka Water
Supply Project.
20.       The plan should be prepared at feasibility level.  It should include
a clear definition of the criteria used for investment decisions and for the
prioritization of investments in different parts of the city. It should identify
the pressing problems facing the city in the sanitation sub-sector, the
investment choices for addressing the problems, and the justification for the
Consultant's recommendations.  It should make recommendations for financing and
cost-recovery arrangements to ensure financial sustainability of proposed
investments. In addition, it should include institutional arrangements necessary
to ensure that the expected flow of benefits can be sustained over the useful
life of the physical infrastructure to be built. The proposed plan should be
sufficiently flexible and adaptive.
PART 2
21.       Based on an agreed project component, identified in the overall study
in Part 1, the consultant will prepare detailed engineering drawings and bid
documents for works to be executed in accordance with Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures approved by the World Bank.
22.       The specifications for the work to be executed will be in accordance
with best engineering practice and take into account local contractor competence.
Time Schedule and Reporting Requirements
23.       The consultants shall mobilize their team in Dhaka within one week of
the starting date. They should provide a core team of professionals, local and
expatriate, as appropriate, for the assignment. In performing their duties, the
consultants shall prepare reports in English and submit them to DWASA and IDA
within the time periods specified in Table 1 below, and in the number of copies
specified therein.
IV.  DATA, SERVICE.S AND FACILITIES AVAILABLE FROM DWASA
A.    Data, Maps and References
24.       DWASA shall provide the Consultants with access to all available data,
information maps, drawings and internal documents relevant to the consulting
services. All reference materials will be loaned to the Consultants and shall
be returned on the completion of the consultancy, or as may be requested.
Exceptions to this principle may be granted on special request.



Annex 4.1
Page 7 of 8
25.       DWASA will arrange for access by the Consultants to all sewerage,
sanitation and drainage facilities to be studied, and also to key officials in
DCC and other government agencies concerned with subjects related to the
consultancy.
B.    Services
26.       During the stay of the Consultants in Dhaka, DWASA will provide the
Consultants with the following services provided by their own or hired staff:
(a) topographic surveys of sites and pipelines required for preparation of
various designs; physical, chemical, and bacteriological analyses and
tests of water and wastewater; arrangements for soil investigations at
project sites and related laboratory tests;
(b) unlimited local telephone service within Dhaka, long distance service
within Bangladesh, and telefax and international mail service, as
required for the services; and
(c) local transportation within Dhaka limited to site visits and
investigations, official meetings at various government agencies, and
messenger services.
C     Personnel
27.       DWASA intends to support the Consultants with counterpart staff --
engineers, technicians, and administrative staff of full-time basis (subject to
time-off for normal leave) to the maximum extent to be agreed during contract
negotiation. The consultants will therefore, include in its project team the
DWASA counterpart staff; where such staff are professional staff, they would have
about five years of relevant professional experience.
D     Office Accommodation
28.       DWASA will furnish the Conjultants with office space in its buildings
in Dhaka.   The space will be air conditioned, open (without partitions) and
furnished with desks, chairs, book shelves and filing cabinets or cupboards. The
space will be available to the Consultants for the duration of the consultancy.



Annex 4.1
Page 8 of 8
Table 1: Reportin, Requirements
Report                Number of Copies    Timing in Weeks
from Starting Date
Inception Report                         25                  4
Review of Existing Situation             25                  16
Progress Reports                         10          Every two months
Willingness-to-Pay Survey Reports        15                  28
Draft Feasibility Report                 15                  40
Final Feasibility Report                 25          Within four weeks
of receiving
comments on draft
l____________________  report
Preparation of Design on Bid             30                  52
Documents                                            or 8 weeks after
approval of Final
l_________________________________ ____________________ Feasibility Report



Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Dhaka Water Resource Management Study
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The city of Dhaka is seriously short of safe domestic water; about 50
percent of the population is served by the city's domestic water supply system
which is operated by the Dhaka Water and Sewage Authority (DWASA). Ninety-
five percent of the total amount of the supplied water has always come from
ground water, which is less expensive and hygienically safer compared to
surface water. Due to the limited availability of ground water, particularly
in the most densely populated area of Dhaka, surface water is now being
considered as an alternative source for domestic water supply.
2.    The total amount of ground water abstraction by private and DWASA tube
wells is estimated to be 274 x 106 M3 per year, of which DWASA is responsible
for about 81 percent of the total or about 223 x 10 6M per year of water as
of 1992. At this rate of abstraction, despite favorable natural recharge, it
has experienced a drawdown "cone" to develop, with a maximum fall in
piezometric level of over 20 meters.
3.    Under the proposed project, Dhaka is seeking the use of surface water to
satisfy the city's ever-growing demand of water supply and to alleviate
existing excessive burden on the ground water source. The beneficiary of the
project will mainly be people of the old part of the City.
4.    The proposed project will provide additional water to alleviate, to a
certain extent, the existing drinking water shortage problem of Dhaka. Due to
competing use of water of the various sectors and the ever growing problem of
pollution from both domestic and industrial sources a water resource
management study addressing both the water quantity and water quality issues
is needed in order to guide the future of water resource management and
development for Dhaka.
5.    The primary targets of the Water Resource Management Study (WRMS), are
among other things: (i) to recover the ground water level in the affected
areas, and (ii) to protect the new surface water intake point from competing
users and pollution. The scope of the WRMS should include the greater Dhaka
area as the city is expanding rapidly although the affected area is centered
at Dhaka city proper. This is also required for the protection of the Demra
intake point on the Lakhya River.
6.    Urban environmental sanitation and domestic waste management is
generally an integral part of most of the WRMS. Under the proposed project
already there is a technical assistance component for a strategic sanitation



Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 7
plan for Dhaka for the period 1995-2020 to address sanitation and sewerage
problems in Dhaka. It is critical that the two studies be well coordinated.
Objectives
7.    The WRMS will try to address the questions of water resources
management, competing sector uses, and quality and quantity of sources,
including allocation and pricing. The specific objectives of the study will
include, but not necessarily be limited to:
a.    documenting the existing urban/industrial development and the
future development plan of the Greater Dhaka and the project-
related areas;
b.    documenting the existing water resources abstraction information,
including surface water and ground water, and project future water
demand and abstraction plan;
c.    documenting existing environmental water pollution problems,
including domestic and industrial sources, and project future
pollution problems;
d.    addressing the principal issues of water resource development
including the control of water (flood control, storm water
drainage, sewerage conveyance); the use of water (municipal,
industrial, irrigation and navigation); and the management of
water quality (pollution control);
e.    assessment of the ways to manage water demand between competing
users, including water allocation and pricing for irrigation,
domestic and industrial uses;
f.    establishment of water rights and improvement of delivery
efficiency (quantity and timing) and effective water use
participation;
g.    co-ordination and control of  water abstraction from both ground
and surface water sources to maximize available water resources;
h.    preparation of measures for improved water quality/quantity
management and urban/industrial drainage control, including
municipal and industrial waste abatement;
i.    implementation of institutional and organizational arrangements
for better coordination of water users and agencies managing and
allocating water; and
j.    implementation of legislation for developing and managing water
resources, including pollution control and water rights
regulations.



Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 7
Approach
8.    Quite often in the developing countries environmental protection gets
more publicity than real problems solved primarily due to lack of financial
resources. Financial assistance acquired from abroad only represents a very
small fraction of the actual needs of the country. The real need of financial
resource for environmental protection is significant. Foreign assistance must
be used in the most prudent manner in order to maximize benefit. Project
success must be measured by the project component's viability or
sustainability whether it is institutional or hardware investment. For the
WRMS to maximize its benefit, it is important that its design observes certain
guidelines, as follows:
a.    close coordination with other related local and international
studies, such as ongoing works by ADB, JICA;
b.    integration into the other components of the project particularly
the sanitation strategy planning under the technical assistance
component;
C.    building on the existing institutional capability rather than
creating new ones;
d.    recommendations for actions should be in line with existing
regulations and standards;
e.    adopting as much assistance-oriented measures as possible rather
than the command-and-control means in achieving environmental
objectives, particularly for industrial pollution control; and
f.    adequate resource for the WRMS must be made available for the
implementation of certain key components that can create tangible
results.
Scope of Work
Part I:     Institutional Strengthening
9.    The ambient environmental quality standards and the standard values for
industrial effluent were drafted by the Department of Environment in 1991;
however, there are no rules and procedures directing the implementation. In
the previous studies it was indicated that present water and environmental
related institutions are weak and their coordination unstructured without
specific details. The study should be able to identify certain basic
institutional issues that can be studied at the beginning, and more issues are
to be identified and studied as the WRMS is in progress. The study will
include:
a.    comprehensive assessment of the capacity of existing water
resource management-related institutions including staffing,
facilities, management tools, database, previous performance,
ongoing program and any future development plans;



Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 7
b.    identification/initiation of an institutional coordination plan,
including both local and donor agencies, to bring water resources
management of Dhaka under an umbrella organization;
c.    identification of the respective roles of the local agencies under
the umbrella organization for the WRMS;
d.    identification of major areas of capacity building needed for the
local agencies under the umbrella organization;
e.    formulation of training programs;
f.    providing assistance in drafting the necessary rules and
procedures to supplement for the draft environmental legislation
of 1994 and for the implementation of the ambient water quality
standards and industrial effluent standards;
g.    estimation of resources needed for the various activities of
capacity building, and
h.    formulation of implementation approach, program and time table.
Part II:    Water Resources Management
10.   It is expected that the results of the institutional strengthening study
will provide a streamlined organizational setting for water resource
management for the City of Dhaka. Some specific objectives of this component
are listed under items (d) to (g) of the objectives of the WRMS. However, the
ultimate objective would be to develop a water resource management master plan
(WRMMP) for the City of Dhaka, including both water quantity and quality and
it will be coordinated with a proposed study of updating the national water
resource planning. The parties involved are agencies related to flood
control, storm water drainage, sewerage conveyance; water consumption and/or
use by municipality, industry, agriculture and navigation.   This component
basically compose of two parts: (i) data collection and the monitoring system,
and (ii) water resource management planning. The works of part (i) will be
closely coordinated with other ongoing donor-supported program particularly
ADB and JICA. This component will include:
Part A: Data collection and the monitoring system
a.    consolidation of existing water resource and pollution information
and formation of a data management system;
b.    assessment of data quality and creating a data quality control
system;
c.    identification of data gap under the current water resource data
collection program and establishing a coordinated data collection
system supported by a sound QA/QC program;



Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 7
d.    survey of existing water resource monitoring laboratories and
stations and the strengthening of a Dhaka water resource
monitoring system including laboratory and field station needs,
arrangement of control samples from abroad for data quality
control and data management computer system.
Part B: Water resource management planning
e.    A study on the principal issues of the development of water
resource, the uses of water resources, including an evaluation of
the current competing uses of water resource, and the impact to
the environment;
f.    development of a ground water abstraction planning and action
plan, particularly for the most seriously affected area in the old
part of the city;
g.    development of a surface water allocation planning and action
plan, particularly for ensuring adequate quality water for the
surface water treatment plants;
h.    inclusion of a demand management plan as an important part of the
above water resource development planning;
i.    development of economic incentives and control measures including
a water rights system to assist the implementation of both the
ground water and surface water action plans, including water
pricing;
j.    designing of water abstraction and delivery system program for
both ground water and surface water between competing users under
the above mentioned action plans.
Part III:   Clean Technology for Industrial Pollution Control
11.   This component will approach industrial pollution control through waste
minimization/clean technology, which helps industry to improve production
efficiency and reduce the costs for pollution control; it is different from
the more costly traditional end-of-pipe (EOP) approach of pollution control.
It will comprise of studies on the economic incentives for industrial
relocation, planning for common and joint treatment facilities in the
industrial areas, and promotion of waste minimization and clean technologies.
Specifically, the studies will include:
a.    information gathering and documentation of the existing industrial
pollution situation in and around Dhaka area including existing
and potential industrial development above the surface water
intake points, and assessment of any planning related to
industrial development including the Dhaka Metropolitan
Development Planning (DMDP);
b.    following the DMDP, study the economics and the economic
incentives of various options for industrial pollution control for



Annex 5.1
Page 6 of 7
existing industrial clusters including waste minimization/clean
technology, and joint and common treatment facilities for
industrial pollution control; and
c.    develop preliminary plan for joint and common waste treatment
facilities for selected industrial clusters such as tannery
cluster and a mixed industrial cluster.
12.   For the promotion of waste minimization/clean technology part, it will
include:
a.    enhancement of awareness for industrial waste minimization/clean
technology for, but not-limited to, people from industrial
associations, large and small industries, environmental agencies,
industrial agencies, other concerned government administration,
NGOs and public media;
b.    creating a waste minimization/clean technology training program
with interested groups such as university, industrial association
and local consulting business in developing local capacity for
conducting pollution audits;
c.    conducting a series of pollution audits for selected industries in
Dhaka with a specially formed group comprised of people of sector-
specific experts from abroad and local technical people and
environmental staff from the government;
d.    the provision of funding for the implementation of low-cost
options for industrial pollution abatement based on the
recommendations of pollution audit results; and
e.    With the experience gained from the various activities under this
component and knowledge of other countries, propose incentive
measures into present environmental regulations and standards to
promote advanced concept in dealing with industrial pollution
control.
Prolect Organization
13.   To organize a project team for the study it is necessary to involve the
main parties responsible for setting policy and regulations and implementation
of water resource activities in the greater Dhaka area. DWASA, DOE and the
Ministry of Irrigation are key players in this area and their support are
essential for the success of the study. The Water Resource Planning
Organization, under the Ministry of Irrigation, had been a coordinating group
for the national water resource planning in the past and whether its role
should be restored is something be discussed with the Ministry of Irrigation.
14.   Coordination with other water resource related study teams and donor
agencies is also important, particularly the ADB, JICA and UNDP.



Annex 5.1
Page 7 of 7
Proiect Timetable
15.  After the time of contract awarded to selected consulting firm the whole
study will take 30 months, divided into two phases: the main study phase, 18
months; and implementation and supervision phase, 12 months.
ActivitV                                         Month
Mobilization and information gathering             1-3
Inception Report                                     4
Main Parts of the Study Work                       5-15
Finalization                                      16-18
Implementation, Training and Supervision          19-30
Staffing
16.   The total staffing will consist of a core team consisting of 25
manmonths of international consulting inputs and 40 manmonths of local inputs.
In addition, short-term national and international consulting inputs,
totalling about 30 staff months will be provided in specific areas of the
study.



Annex 6.1
Bangbdesh
Dhaka Water Supply and Sanitation IV
Project Components by Year - Totals Incluiding Contingencies
(LSS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
19965   1996    1997    1898    1866    2000    2001    2002    Total
A. Land Acquisition
1. Land Purchase
Intake Culvert                                         0.1                                                                 0.1
Culvert, DND Canal                                      0.7                                                                0.7
Treatment Plant Sde                                   23.8        -       -        -       -        -       -        -    23.8
Subtotal Land Acquisition                                  24.5       -        -       -       -        -       -        -    24.5
E. Treatment Plant & Associated Works
1. Intake Sarulila
Pumping Plant                                             -             0.6      0.5     0.4                -              1.6
Intake CMI Works                                              -         0.4      0.8     0.8     0.1        -       -      2.1
Subtotal Intake Sarulia                                                    1.0     1.4     1.1      0.1                      3.7
2. Canal RehabilItation and Site Development
Renovation of DND Canal                                 0.3     0.3     0.1        -       -                -              0.7
Backfill of Trt. Pt. Ste                               0.9      0.9     0.5            -       -            -       -      2.2
Subtotal Canal Rehabilitation and SlIte Development       1.2     1.2     0.6        -       -        -       -        -     3.0
3. Culvert from DND Canal to Site
Culvert                                                   -       -     1.3      1.2     1.3        -       -        -     3.8
4. Treatment Plant
Treatment Plant Mechanical & Electrical                   -            21.5    18.8    13.4             -            -    53.7
Treatment Plant Civil Works                               -       -     4.5      9.2     8.2      1.2       -        -    23.0
Subtotal Treatment Plant                                    -            26.0    28.0    21.6       1.2                     76.8
6. Ancillary Structures
Office and Administration Buildings                           -         0.5      1.0     0.9      0.1       -        -     2.6
Subtotal Treatment Plant & Associated Works                 1.2     1.2    29.4    31.6    25.0       1.4       -        -    89.7
C. New Pipelines
1. Primary Transmission Mains
Primary Main                                              -       -     4.1      4.2     4.2      4.3     4.4        -    21.1
2. Secondary Tranmission Mains
Secondary Main                                                -         1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1       -      5.4
Subtotal New Pipelines                                        -       -      5.2     5.2     5.3      5.4     5.5        -    26.6
0. Distribution System Rehabilitation
1. Leak Detection Program                                 0.1     0.1     0.3      0.4     0.3        -       -              1.3
2. System Rehabilitation                                    -              1.3     1.3     1.3      1.3     1.4      1.4     8.0
3. Tubewell Regeneration                                    -             0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2        -     1.0
Subtotal Distribution System Rehabilitation                 0.1     0.1      1.8     1.9     1.8      1.5     1.6      1.4    10.2
E. Expansion of Service Connections
1. Tertiary Distribution and House Connections              -       -     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4        -     1.9
2. Crash Meter Installation Program                                 -     0.3      0.3     0.3       _                       1.0
Subtotal Expansion of Service Connections                     -       -      0.7     0.7     0.7      0.4     0.4        -     2.8
F. Development of Sewerage/Sanitation
1. Feasibility Study                                      0.2     0.3     0.3        -       -        -       -              0.8
2. Physical Works/Sewerage Rehab and Latrines               -       -     0.5      1.6     2.2                -        -     4.3
Subtotal Development of Sewerage/Sanitation                 0.2     0.3      0.8     1.6     2.2        -            -         5.0
0. Institutional Development TA
1. Water Resources Management Study                         -       -     0.2      0.6     0.4     0.1                 -     1.3
2. Management Support (Twinning) Program                    -       -     0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8        -     4.0
3. Contracting out DWASA Services                           -       -     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2       -        -     0.8
4. Training (DWASA)                                         -       -     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     1.1
5. Management Support (Senior Contract Staff)                   -         0.2      0.3     0.3      0.2       -        -     0.9
6. Preparatory Work for Private Sector Participation        -       -     0.3      0.3     0.3        -                -     0.8
Subtotal Institutional Development TA                                 -      1.8     2.3     2.1      1.5     1.0      0.2     8.9
H. Project Prep/lmplemenation Support
1. Equipment                                                              0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4       -        -     1.7
2. Project Preparation (Ordinance and Ancillary Works)      -     0.1        -       -       -        -       -              0.1
3. Construction Supervision & Network Analysis              -       -     0.5      0.5     1.1      2.1     1.9        -     6.2
4. Implementation of Tariff Study                                   -     0.1                -        -               -      0.1
Subtotal Project Prep/lImplemenation Support                        0.1      1.0     1.0     1.5      2.6     1.9        -     8.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        26.0      1.7    40.5    44.2    38.6    12.8    10.4       1.6   175.8



Annex 6.2
Bangladesh
Dhaka Water Suppty and Sanitation IV
Components Project Cost Summary
(Local Million)                           (USS Million)
%     % Total                           %    % Total
Foreign   Base                          Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchang  Costs  Local Foreign  Total Exchang  Costs
A. Land Acquisition
1. Land Purchase
Intake Culvert                                        2.2         -       2.2               -    0.1        -    0.1
Culvert, DND Canal                                   25.4                25.4                     0.B       -    0.6
Treatment Plant Site                                936.0               936.0        -     14    22.2            22.2               14
Subtotal Land AcquIsition                               963.6         -    963.6               15    22.8       -   22.8         -     15
B. Treatment Plant & Associated Works
1. Intake Sarulila
Pumping Plant                                        27.6      29.0      56.5      51       1     0.7    0.7    1.3        51       1
Intake Civil Works                                   27.7      43.6     71.3       61       1     0.7    1.0    1.7        61       1
Subtotal Intake Sarulla                                55.3      72.5    127.8       57       2     1.3    1.7    3.0        57       2
2. Canal Rehabilitation and Site Development
Renovation of DND Canal                              26.2         -      26.2               -    0.6        -    0.6
Backrill of Tn. PR. Site                             82.0         -     82.0        -       1     1.9       -     1.9               1
Subtotal Canal Rehabilitation and Site Development    108.2         -    108.2        -       2     2.6             2.6        -      2
3. Culvert from DND Canal to Site
Culvert                                             123.2       1.7    124.9        1       2     2.9    0.0    3.0          1      2
4. Treatment Plant
Treatment Plant Mechanical & Electrical             945.0   1,321.5   2,266.5      58      34    22.4   31.3   53.7         58     34
Treatment Plant Civil Works                         302.6    475.6    778.2        61      12     7.2   11.3   18.4        61      12
Subtotal Treatment Plant                            1,247.6   1,797.1   3,044.6      59      46    29.6   42.6   72.2        59      46
S. Ancillary Structures
Office and Administration Buildings                  79.9       4.6      84.5       5       1     1.9    0.1    2.0          5      1
Subtotal Treatment Plant & Associated Works           1,614.2   1,875.9   3,490.1      54      53    38.3   44.5   82.7        54      53
C. New Pipelines
1. Primary Transmisslon Mains
Primary Main                                        312.4    426.4    738.8        58      it     7.4   10.1   17.5         58     11
2. Secondary Tranmission Mains
Secondary Main                                       69.7    122.3    192.0        64       3     1.7    2.9    4.6         64      3
Subtotal New Pipelines                                  382.1    548.6    930.7        59      14     9.1   13.0   22.1         59     14
0. Distribution System Rehabilitation
1. Leak Detection Program                              16.5      28.9      45.3      64       1     0.4    0.7    1.1        64       1
2. System Rehabilitation                              101.3    177.7    279.0        64       4     2.4    4.2    6.6         64      4
3. Tubewell Regeneration                               12.7      22.2      34.9      64       1     0.3    0.5    0.8         64       1
Subtotal Distribution System Rehabilitation             130.4    228.8    359.2        64       5     3.1    5.4    8.5         64      5
E. Expansion of Service Connectlons
1. Tertiary Distribution and House Connectlons         23.7      37.9      61.6      62       1     0.6    0.9    1.5         62      1
2. Crash Meter Installation Program                    12.7      22.2      34.9      64       1     0.3    0.5    0.8        64       1
Subtotal Expansion of Service Connections                36.4      60.1      96.5      62       1     0.9    1.4    2.3        62       1
F. Development of Sewerage/Sanitation
1. Feasibility Study                                   11.5      16.2      27.7      59       -    0.3    0.4    0.7         59
2. Physical Works/Sewerage Rehab and Latrines          58.0      85.3    143.3       60       2     1.4    2.0    3.4        60       2
Subtotal Development of Sewerage/Sanitation              69.5    101.5    171.0        59       3     1.6    2.4    4.1        59       3
G. Institutional Development TA
1. Water Resources Management Study                    15.0      28.3      43.3      65       1     0.4    0.7    1.0        65       1
2. Management Support (Twinning) Program               60.0      73.4    133.4       55       2     1.4    1.7    3.2        55       2
3. Contracting out DWASA Services                       8.0      18.9      26.9      70       -    0.2    0.4    0.6         70        -
4. Training (DWASA)                                    12.0      23.1      35.1      66       1     0.3    0.5    0.8        66       1
5. Management Support (Senior Contract Stall)           9.0      19.9      28.9      69       -    0.2    0.5    0.7          69       -
6. Preparatory Work for Private Sector Participation    9.0      19.9     28.9       69       -    0.2    0.5    0.7         69        -
Subtotal Institutional Development TA                   113.0    183.4    296.4        62       5     2.7    4.3    7.0        62       5
H. Project Prepilmplemenation Support
1. Equipment                                           20.0      41.9      61.9      68       1     0.5    1.0    1.5        68       1
2. Project Preparation (Ordinance and Ancillary Works)    -       2.1       2.1     100       -       -    0.1    0.1        100       -
3. Construction Supervision & Network Analysis            -    206.6    206.6       100       3       -    4.9    4.9        100      3
4. Implementation of Tariff Study-                                2.1       2.1     100       -             0.1    0.1       100
Subtotal Project Prep/Implemenation Support              20.0    252.7    272.7        93       4     0.5    6.0    6.5        93       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   3,329.1   3,251.1   6,580.3     49    100    78.9   77.1  156.0          49    100
Physical Contingencies                                138.0    193.0    331.0        58       5     3.3    4.6    7.8         58      5
Price Contingencies                                   201.4    336.3    537.7        63       8     5.5    6.5   12.0        54       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    3,668.6   3,780.4   7,449.0      51    113    87.7   88.1  175.8         50    113



Annex 7.1
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
PROPOSED FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LEAK DETECTION AND LOSS REDUCTION PROGRAM
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE SECOND AND THIRD PHASE PROGRAM
Introduction
1.          The Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) is committed
to making a major effort to reduce unaccounted for water (UFW) in its current
operations and deal with any potential increase due to higher system pressures
which will result from the introduction of the new surface water treatment plant
under the Fourth Dhaka Water  Supply Project.   In this  regard,  DWASA is
undertaking a leak detection and loss control program in its service area. The
program is aimed at transferring of appropriate technology, including modern
specialized equipment to facilitate the implementation of a systematic control
program of non revenue water.  The program will also provide for training of
DWASA staff in new methodologies, for monitoring and evaluating effects of the
program and for assisting DWASA in repair and rehabilitation works identified
during the program. The program will also provide incentives for DWASA staff for
improved performance to bring about sustainable operating practices.
Program Obiective
2.          The primary objective of the program is to prepare and implement a
comprehensive menu of reforms to reorganize the leak detection division, provide
incentives for UFW control teams, strengthen workers training programs and update
and enforce bylaws for the reduction of unaccounted for water by about 12
percentage points during the program period and for the implementation of long
term sustainable and improved system operation and maintenance practices within
DWASA.  The program will also assist in physical rehabilitation of the water
distribution network and in reviewing the policies and practices of the DWASA
related to UFW.  The program will comprise implementation of works in three
overlapping phases and will be geared to dealing with the expected high pressures
when the Saidabad Water Treatment Plant starts operating in 1998.  These TOR
describe the scope of work for the second and third phase of the program.
Background
3.          A limited pilot area was the subject of a leak detection program
undertaken in 1991 by foreign consultants (GKW) in association with a local
partner (BETS). The program developed a methodology and an approach for tackling
the leak problem and this knowledge is available (in the form of reports) for
transfer from the local consultant (BETS). Accordingly, DWASA prepared Terms of
Reference (reviewed during pre-appraisal) for the same consultant to revisit the
pilot area and extend into two new areas as part of an immediate action program.
The consultants were sole sourced in the interest of efficiency and economy.
This first phase program started in November 1994.  The scope of work of the
first phase consists of: (a) training of DWASA staff to repair, replace, infill



Annex 7.1
Page 2 of 5
and extend pipework in the pilot area zones to updating of the calculation of
unaccounted for water and implement the loss control program identified in the
pilot program; (b) selection of two additional cells of about 500 to 1000 service
connections, and prepare designs and tender documents, and supervise the
installation of border valves, bulk and waste detection meters, including
localized consumer surveys to identify administrative losses; and (c) updating
of the distribution network drawings and preparation of detailed reports on tasks
performed. The first phase program will last eighteen months.
Administrative Actions
4.          To assist in the implementation of the program, DWASA has made
administrative changes in its organizational structure to upgrade the Waste
Prevention Division into a System Monitoring and Waste Control Circle with a
Superintending Engineer as the head of the circle. The Superintending Engineer
will act as the Project Director in addition to his normal duties until a revised
organizational set-up is approved. The immediate procurement of equipment, tools
and training materials would be achieved through retroactive financing under the
proposed IDA Credit.   The immediate activities and procurement actions are
expected to take about one and a half years, during which period the selection
and appointment of the consultants for the next phase of the work would take
place.
5.          Included in the administrative actions are specific pay incentives
over basic wages, for staff engaged in the leak detection program complying with
performance criteria devised by the consultant. This reimbursable expense has
been included in the consultancy contract.
Scope of Work
6.          For the second and third phase, it is expected that DWASA will
appoint a joint venture consisting of a local consulting and foreign consulting
firm. Because of the experience gained by DWASA in the pilot program and the
first phase of the current program, the local consulting firm would be the lead
firm, and would direct and supervise implementation and rehabilitation
activities. The foreign firm would have wide experience in leak detection and
control program design, survey and implementation, and would provide backup and
technical support. The consultants shall provide the following services:
(a)   Prolect Management:  Assist the project management unit of DWASA in
preparation of specifications and bidding documents for material and
equipments for the operation of leak detection and pipeline repair
work, including hand tools, repair clamps, etc.;
(b)   Analysis and Improvement:  Assist DWASA staff in review and analysis
of current polices, procedures and practices related to causes of
UFW, including, but not limited to, new water service connection
application and works, customer water service repair, customer meter
testing, repair and replacement, illegal connections, main
extensions, and make recommendations to improve existing systems;
(c)   Leak Survey and Rehabilitation:  Assist DWASA staff with all aspects



Annex 7.1
Page 3 of 5
of leak detection and control, especially for the selection of
rehabilitation districts, operation of detection equipment, field
surveys and preparation of a rehabilitation program;
(d)   Technical Standards Assessment:  Assist DWASA in reviewing various
technical standards which have an impact on UFW, including meter
testing   and   installation   standards,   leak  repair  methods;
construction inspection;
(e)   Staff  Training Assistance:    Assess  staff  training  needs  and
preparation of training programs for leak detection, UFW and
distribution system maintenance/rehabilitation.
The detailed scope of work for each of the two phases is provided in the
paragraphs below:
Implementation of Program - Phase 2
7.          Based on the results of the first phase, the consultants will first
prepare a list and detailed specifications of leak detection equipment and
materials needed for the initial period of the phase. This phase is expected to
last three years. Detailed scope of work will be to:
(a)   assist DWASA in selecting suitable zones to cover about 70,000
connections within the distribution network for the purposes of
detecting and reducing water wastage as well as assessing the
various components of UFW.  DWASA maintains maps and records of
distribution networks and house connections. However, if gaps are
identified in such maps and records, the consultants shall assist
DWASA staff in obtaining and updating information required for
design and implementation for the program;
(b)   prepare a detailed program of leak detection surveys and compile
records aimed at identifying major leakage areas within each sub-
network, defective or unsuitable meters and other fittings, etc.
This activity will also detect unauthorized connections and reduce
preventable waste within consumer premises. It would also include
design of suitable public education program to mobilize cooperation
of consumers and educate them to appreciate the objective of this
exercise;
(c)   review with DWASA staff facilities available for meter testing,
repairs and maintenance of valves and other fittings within the
system and assisting consumers to remedy faulty internal systems,
etc. The consultants will also make practicable recommendations to
improve or expand facilities and for setting up new facilities
required for the successful implementation of this program.  The
consultants shall review and recommend the technical procedures for
mains installation and approval of the new service connections;
(d)   select key DWASA personnel to work with the consultants and receive
further training in particular areas of expertise required to



Annex 7.1
Page 4 of 5
implement the program;
(e)   prepare additional training materials as needed suitable for use
with skilled and unskilled workers, including audio visual materials
specially designed for the purpose;
(f)   assess the linkage available and coordination between DWASA field
operational staff, and the accounting and records section, and make
recommendations where appropriate to achieve closer coordination to
realize the goals of this program;
(g)   prepare, in consultation with DWASA staff, monitoring indicators and
a reporting system designed to provide clear information on physical
accomplishments and overall progress on a regular reporting basis
(monthly) for this phase and phase 3 of the program;
(h)   assist DWASA management to forecast resource requirements (staff,
equipment and budgets) as well as the organization structure needed
to implement Phase 3 of the program in terms of repairs and
replacement of faulty fittings, major leaks and rehabilitation of
obsolete pipes;
(i)   assess the availability of pipes, valves and meters (if possible,
locally) for replacement of defective equipment required to bring
about early reduction of UFW and better monitoring of leakage; and
(j) review and recommend the most economic reduction level of UFW,
taking into account the costs of leak detection and repair
campaigns.
Implementation of Program - Phase 3
8.          This phase is expected to be an on-going activity within DWASA and
will draw on the examples of the first two phases to cover the remaining zones
(over 80,000 connections). The responsibility of the consultants in this phase
will be minimal and it is expected that only a few foreign and some local
supervision consultants will be required, on a short term or need basis. The
time frame for this phase will be determined by DWASA itself based on the
remaining work to be done.   However, it is expected that the input of the
consultants will be no more than a year, after which DWASA staff will continue
activities on their own. The scope of work in this phase will be to:
(a)   execute actual leak detection surveys, based on experience gained in
the previous phases.   DWASA staff will be responsible for all
repairs of leaks on a continuous basis on the remaining pipelines
and connections;
(b)   continue with and pursue intensive on the job training of key DWASA
staff in leak detection as well as operation and maintenance of
specialized equipment;
(c)   continue the assistance to DWASA staff in increasing consumer



Annex 7.1
Page 5 of 5
awareness of the need for waste prevention, and carry out public
education campaigns and assistance in eliminating waste;
(d)   assists DWASA teams engaged on the program to ensure conformity with
designed methodologies, accuracy and consistency of reporting; and
(e)   assist DWASA to modify designed programs, techniques and scope of
work to suit site conditions and circumstances, and transfer
experience from other utilities involved in similar programs.
Implementation Cooperation
9.          The consultants will be expected to work in very close cooperation
and consultation with DWASA. DWASA will provide counterpart staff to work with
the consultants and field staff to implement the program.   DWASA will also
provide access to the consultants of its facilities including available data,
maps, drawings and internal documents and suitable office space to house the
consultants and their counterparts.
10.         The consultants shall motivate and train DWASA staff to achieve the
program objectives working closely with DWASA management, and provide
recommendations to improve staff motivation toward the leak reduction program.
Reports
11.         The consultants will provide to DWASA and the Ministry of Local
Government Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC) an inception report within
3 months from the commencement of Phase 2, with a detailed schedule for the
implementation of the balance of Phase 2 and Phase 3 of the program.
12.         About three months before the end of Phase 2, the consultants shall
prepare a Phase 2 completion report based on an agreed format.  The Phase 2
report shall be reviewed by IDA, DWASA and MLGRDC and approval given to the
consultants to proceed to Phase 3 of the program.
13.         The  consultants  shall  also  prepare  monthly  progress  reports,
beginning after the inception report and through the completion of Phase 3.
14.         At the conclusion of Phase 3 activities, the consultant shall prepare
a final completion report for the program as a whole, based on an agreed format.
The report shall provide details of all data gathered, accomplishments and
recommendations for a rolling program DWASA to continue with leak detection
activities on an on-going basis.
15.         The consultants shall also prepare the relevant operational manuals
for use by field staff involved in leak detection and rehabilitation.
16.         All reports should be presented in English, and DWASA shall translate
the relevant sections of the reports and operational manuals into Bengali, as
necessary, for field staff.



Annex 8.1
Page 1 of 12
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Management and Operational Support (Twinning) Program
Draft Terms of Reference
INTRODUCTION
1.        The Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) recognizes
the need to improve its ability to efficiently operate and maintain its
facilities, manage scarce water supply resources in an optimal way, and to
provide its services in the least-cost manner possible. DWASA institutional
performance however, has remained weak. The main factors contributing to this
poor performance include poor institutional capability to effectively manage
and operate its facilities, a lack of capable management and trained manpower,
poor management information system and a general lack of commercial
orientation in its operations. DWASA is aware of these short comings and the
difficulties involved in transforming its operations into a commercially-
oriented entity. To this extent, a major program of assistance is proposed to
assist DWASA to improve its ability to efficiently operate and maintain its
facilities, plan for the future and bring about changes in the attitude of
utility staff in the need to adopt commercially oriented practices in
operations. These terms of reference describe the arrangements for a twinning
program between the twinning partner (hereinafter called the Partner) and the
client (DWASA); the services which the partner will provide to DWASA to
strengthen its operating efficiency, improve financial management and the
capacity of its staff to manage and operate its facilities and provide water
supply and sanitation services more efficiently; and the obligations of DWASA
under the twinning arrangement.
OVERALL OBJECTIVES
2.        The overall objective of the proposed technical assistance is to
develop the management, planning, operation and maintenance capabilities of
DWASA and to ensure that it is operated in the most efficient, cost effective
manner possible. To develop these capabilities, DWASA intends to enter into a
twinning arrangement with an experienced water utility company, using experts
in the management, commercial and financial administration, and operation and
maintenance of water supply utilities in developed countries. The proposed
twinning arrangement will be characterized by a closer involvement between the
two parties than is generally obtained in a standard client-consultant
relationship. It is aimed at direct transfer of managerial and technical
skills and systems that involve the various functional aspects of DWASA.
3.        The key objectives of the twinning arrangement would be:
(a) to provide sustained technical and managerial support aimed at
building up DWASA's capability to the point where, within four



Annex 8.1
Page 2 of 12
years, it can independently and efficiently operate all aspects of
its operations;
(b) to assist in the development and implementation of organizational
structure, systems, procedures and practices required by a
commercial water utility;
(c) to provide back-up support in carrying out the day-to-day
operations.
4.        DWASA has already commenced a pilot program of leak detection and
repair in two zones, and has finalized a Consumer Survey, whose objectives
were to identify and properly record all water and sewer connected holdings,
including those not registered with DWASA, identify potential customers and
establish a correct computer data-base for revenue operations. The proposed
twinning program will build upon the relevant parts of the work undertaken in
these programs.
GENERAL STRUCTURE OF THE TWINNING PROGRAM
The Relationship of the Client and Partner
5.        The essential requirements for a successful twinning arrangement is
to create an environment in which the transfer of technology can be optimized.
The Partner as supplier of technical expertise must be able to respond to the
changing needs of the client. For its part the client organization should
also be prepared to improve its performance with the introduction of proposed
changes. Ideally, the partner should be able to offer experience and
expertise over a wide range of activities, embracing state-of-the-art methods
of planning and implementation. The guiding principle of the contract would
aim at risk sharing between the partner and the client through remuneration
that is tied to meeting agreed targets and improvements in performance. It is
expected that for this twinning arrangement expertise and experience will be
offered primarily in managerial technical assistance with emphasis on: (a)
management and finance; and (b) operations and maintenance. Assistance would
be provided through the secondment of experienced personnel primarily from the
Partners own organization (not recruited for the purpose of the twinning
contract) into parallel positions in DWASA. It will be the responsibility of
the Partner to organize its activities to suit the requirement of the client.
In entering into the twinning agreement with the Partner, DWASA as the client
will take on certain obligations to present sufficient and suitable staff for
training and to provide the physical environment and facilities for the
Partner to carry out his services according to the TOR.
6.        In addition, IDA and the Government are involved in a dialogue to
introduce further private sector participation in DWASA through a dedicated
water utility operator on a long-term basis. A strategy study has been
included in the project to help DWASA define options and recommend the best
way forward. It is expected that the Partner will help DWASA facilitate the
transition and preparation for such an arrangement. This will include
collection of information and other data, analysis, and preparation of other
required background material for the recommended option.



Annex 8.1
Page 3 of 12
Obligations of DWASA
7.        With this twinning arrangement, the obligation of the client are to
provide:
(a) access to the Partner to all the client's water supply, sewerage
sanitation and drainage facilities;
(b) available data, information maps, drawings, internal documents,
including billing, collection and accounting records;
(c) counterpart staff;
(d) suitable office space to house the experts and their counterparts;
(e) sufficient equipment and tools necessary to perform their duties as
appropriate; and
(f) sufficient operational funds to enable smooth operation of DWASA.
8.        It is a requirement of these TOR that each specialist from the
Partner's organization will work alongside DWASA counterparts, preferably in
the same office. In certain cases, the counterpart will also retain his
office. Allowance must be made in the contract for the refurbishment of
certain offices and the provision of furniture and office equipment in
addition to the technical and training equipment to be provided.
9.        It will be the responsibility of DWASA to make adequate provision
in its budget to ensure that local funds are in place to support the twinning
arrangement. Such costs are expected to include transport costs for its own
staff, out-of station allowances, and the provision of consumables.
ObliRations of the Partner and Inputs
10.       It is anticipated that three full time senior advisers (operations
and maintenance, technical and engineering, and finance and accounting) will
be needed to strengthen DWASA. These will be complemented by short-term
experts in specialized areas with appropriate expertise and experience in
those areas. One of the full time senior advisers will be the Team Leader.
The advisers and the short-term experts will serve in operational capacities
and will, together with DWASA's senior management, have joint responsibility
for overseeing day-to-day operations and implementation of systems, procedures
and practices. The Partner will also provide back up services from its
headquarters for the strengthening DWASA's structure, systems and services as
required, and technical specialist input, if needed for other tasks that will
help improve efficiency. In addition, the Partner shall act as advisor to
DWASA in its dealings with third parties. A detailed scope of work is
provided below.
11.       As indicated above, an important aspect of the twinning program is
the systematic and comprehensive transfer of knowledge and skills from the
Partner to DWASA, in particular to the counterpart staff working with the
Partner's advisors and experts. This will include transfer of training skills



Annex 8.1
Page 4 of 12
and training materials on DWASA's operations, to enable DWASA staff to carry
over the training of officers after the end of the program.
12.       During the course of this arrangement, DWASA will be undertaking
other initiatives to improve its operational and financial performance. These
include the Leak Detection and Rehabilitation Program, and the Crash Meter
Installation Program. The Partner will liaise with the consultants
undertaking these programs and assist DWASA in implementation of the results
of these programs.
Outputs and Goals
13.       To have some measure of the performance of the twinning
arrangement, it is important that the Partner and the Client agree on a list
of outputs and goals at the outset of the services. These could be in form of
certain performance objectives and indicators, (financial, operational,
institutional), including a time-frame for transferring of the
responsibilities of specific activities to DWASA counterparts. It will be
necessary that DWASA and the partner specify and use performance variables and
targets to the extent possible. During contract negotiations, both parties
will define the specific baseline values for the performance variables
selected. Baseline values represent the specific values of the performance
variables that most closely represent present operational trends. Fixed
payment for the services rendered by the Partner will be independent of the
achievement or non-achievement of the baseline values. However, to provide
the partner with some upside incentives, DWASA and GOB will agree to incentive
payments for superior performance beyond the initial base-line values. This
feature will provide the right incentive to the selected partner and
represents a sharing of benefits between DWASA and the partner. An example of
the performance variables that could be used include: total water sold as a
percentage of water produced; average water production from tubewells;
variable cost of water per unit; and persons trained per year.
14.       To ensure that the program objectives are being met, the Ministry
of the Local Government will set up a Program Review Committee, headed by one
Ministry official (probably a Joint Secretary) and consisting of one DWASA
senior official and the Team Leader of the Twinning Program. This committee
will monitor the achievement of the performance variables selected, and other
issues relating to the program.
Time-frame
15.       The program will be carried out in two phases with a period of
reporting and review between them. The first phase will be for a period of
three months followed by a month for the preparation of an Implementation
Proposal. This first phase will be a quick diagnostic review to identify
priority areas on which significant and rapid improvement could be made to
DWASA's operations,identify the outputs and goals to be achieved, and develop
the methodology to be used in implementation. In addition, the Implementation
Proposal will prepare detailed TOR for the short-term specialists and a time
schedule for their activities and input, including the identification of their
counterparts in DWASA. The Implementation Proposal will be presented in draft
form at the end of the fourth month and will be reviewed by DWASA, GOB and



Annex 8.1
Page 5 of 12
IDA. The second phase of the consultancy will follow approval of the final
review of the Implementation Proposal, for a period of four years but the
contract will be renewed on an annual basis. This is necessary to enable the
contract to be terminated, once arrangements are in place to introduce in
DWASA private sector operators on a long-term basis. The contract between the
partner and the client will therefore include a termination clause to allow
termination of the contract based on a mutual understanding of both parties
that early termination is in both their interest.
SCOPE OF WORK
16.       The proposed program will consist of development and the
implementation of the organization structure, systems, procedures, in the
following broad areas: (a) Operations and Maintenance; (b) Management and
Finance; (c) Management Information System; (d) Personnel Management and
Training; and (e) Computerization. Detailed scope of work in each of these
areas will be as follows:
(a) Operations and Maintenance
The scope of the work will include, but not necessarily limited to
the following:
(i) provision of specialist operational support, advice and
direction in all aspects of water treatment and distribution,
particular attention being given to operational processes,
technology, distribution control practices and leakage
strategy and implementation;
(ii) provision of specialized operational processes, support,
advice and direction in all aspects of sewage treatment and
sludge disposal, preparation of action plans, programs of
work, policies and operating systems to improve the
operational performance of the sewage treatment works, and
systematic mapplng and updating of the collection and sewer
system records;
(iii) inventory of all water resources connected to the system
(including the proposed surface water under this project), and
determining the cost of producing water from each source,
assessment of means to reduce these costs, and development of
operating rules to optimize use of water and minimize
operating costs. This should include particularly a review of
all uses of power, fuel and chemicals and recommendations for
maximizing the efficiency of their use;
(iv) analysis of distribution system and recommendation of a
district metering system, and overall crash metering program,
and provide advice and assistance to metering program
consultants on the necessary meters, procurement and
installation, inciuding a meter repair program;



Annex 8.1
Page 6 of 12
(v) review the achievements of previous programs of leak detection
and wastage control, and co-ordinate with leak detection
consultants under the project, and recommend a program of
further loss reduction, including both technical and non-
technical losses, and leakage repair program to be carried out
as part of the Proposed Fourth DWASA Project;
(vi) assess surface water sources used by DWASA and make
recommendations for a program to monitor water quality,
including control in the use of biocides and fertilizers;
(vii) advise and recommend the maintenance and rehabilitation of
water supply lines, including prevention against
contamination, rehabilitation of old sewer lines, desilting of
sewer lines, and prepare a routine preventive maintenance
program for water supply distribution system and sewer
network, treatment plants, and deep tubewells, including
safety inspection for all facilities;
(viii) prepare an inventory of all stores, provide advice and
assistance on stores, stores procedures and procurement
arrangements, establish necessary holdings of spare parts and
chemicals, and location of stores facilities and recommend
stores maintenance procedures;
(ix) recommend methods of treatment of tubewells suitable to
aquifer conditions and materials used in construction of
tubewells, and prepare guidelines and a program for
regeneration or maintenance of tubewells;
(x) develop a program to increase the awareness of the importance
of efficient water use, which includes water quality, water
distribution, material standards and maintenance practices,
continuous monitoring of water losses and unaccounted for
water, plumbing standards for interior plumbing and water
efficient equipment;
(xi) recommend equipment, tools, vehicles, etc., necessary for
DWASA to carry out its duties, including the rehabilitation of
the existing meter repair workshop, and possible advice and
assistance on a maintenance program for such equipment and
tools;
(xii) determine suitable monitoring indicators for use by DWASA to
assist in its duties and in general quality control, and in
establishing a management information system utilizing these
indicators; and
(xiii) determine the need for laboratory facilities and prepare
specifications and assist with the procurement of laboratory
equipment and supplies.



Annex 8.1
Page 7 of 12
(b) Management and Finance
The scope of work under this area will include, but not necessarily
limited to:
(i)  introduction of appropriate systems of cost management
accounting to be used for budgeting management and improved
productivity;
(ii) review of DWASA's financial management systems and procedures
and prepare a work program of improvements, including improved
commercial financial accounting system for DWASA,and its
planning and budgeting procedures;
(iii)  provide assistance in management accounting such as project
cost accounting, stores accounting, assets accounting and
evaluation, including recording, depreciation, etc.;
(iv) provide advice on improvements in financial control and
internal audit systems to assist DWASA in financial
management;
(v)  provide assistance with the preparation of current cost
accounts as supplements to audited historical accounts;
(vi) prepare financial performance measurement indicators, to be
used by DWASA in defining performance objectives and targets;
(vii) assist in improvement of revenue generation, tariff
management, including the implementation of a revised tariff
structure and the mechanism for regular tariff reviews, and
adjustments;
(viii) development of improved billing, customer accounting and
collection procedures, and the management and recovery of
arrears, by reviewing existing commercial practices and
systems, billing frequency, meter reading routes, collection
practices, connection/disconnection procedure and recommend
improvements;
(ix) assist in strengthening and streamlining procedures for meter
reading, revenue collection, and implementation of more
efficient and economic procedures for bill preparations,
revenue collections and arrears monitoring; and
(x)  develop and implement new computer based financial and control and
administrative system, including general ledger, accounts payable,
payroll, inventory management, purchasing, personnel records and
customer billing, and the production and implementation of new operating
manuals.



Annex 8.1
Page 8 of 12
(c)  Mana&ement Information Systems
The objective in this area is to establish a management information
system to assist DWASA in financial and operational decision-
making. In addition, as discussed before, the Partner will also
assist in collection of information required to facilitate the
introduction of a private sector operator in DWASA's operations.
Activities in this area will include:
(i)  Assist in data collection, information generation, surveys and
analysis to provide statistics and reports that determine
existing conditions within the Dhaka metropolitan area
regarding population distribution, projected growth, income
distribution, etc., to assist in water demand management;
(ii) Advise on preparation of master plans and data/records, maps,
plans for water supply sewerage and drainage systems for the
city of Dhaka together with any available city topographical
base maps using GIS;
(iii) Assist in preparation of hydrological data, soil
characteristics, development densities and topography of the
catchment areas of the city;
(iv) Co-ordinate a program of field surveys to verify data and maps
on a regular basis, and update existing data maps, etc;
(v)  Assist in preparing technical information on DWASA operations
including macrometering of water produced; micrometering
consumption patterns for key consumer categories; network
condition including size, material, age and description of the
system by sector in the city; the condition of utility pump
station reservoirs, treatment plants and other civil works of
electromechnical equipment, its age, capacity, performance and
maintenance records including major breakdowns;
(vi) Provide assistance in the preparation of information and data
needed for the decision of annual operation, maintenance and
investment programs, including past records of breakdowns and
previous maintenance and operating plans;
(vii) assist in the preparation of commercial, financial and
institutional information, including a cadaster of users,
collection records, accounting practices, criteria for
valuation of assets, financial policies, payroll information
and personnel histories, inventory of non-operational
facilities, e.g., buildings, furniture, vehicles, etc.;
(viii)  Review information needs for the preparation of financial
technical and operational reports and determine the frequency
of reporting with management;



Annex 8.1
Page 9 of 12
(ix)   Determine sources of information and how best to record and
report the information; and
(x)  Develop a management information reporting package at various
organization and management levels with recommended frequency
of reporting.
(d)  Personnel Management and Training
The objective in this area would be to review the present personnel
management system and recommend improvement to the existing system.
Particularly important is the undertaking of a comprehensive
manpower and organizational study, and provision of assistance in
setting up a training program and design of curricular for staff to
complement the improvements in DWASA financial, operational and
technical performance including preparation of performance based
incentives for all staff. Specific actions may include, but not
necessarily limited to:
(i)  undertaking a manpower and organizational study to identify
the features essential to the development of an effective
organization and the preparation of an organization structure
to enhance DWASA's efficiency;
(ii) determining the roles of current postholders and requirements
(including shortfalls) for the recommended organization
structure, develop appropriate skills for the positions,
including a program of staff rationalization;
(iii) advising on planning and organization of training programs and
effective use of the DWASA training center;
(iv) provision of facilities for study visits by DWASA staff to
other utilities for the acquisition of specific skills in
accordance with a well-prepared training program;
(v)  provision for the exchange and dissemination of useful
professional and technical journals and other information;
(vi) establishing a program for operational training, including job
classification and certification, and incentives for water
system operators revenue officers and billing staff to advance
to higher levels of skills and responsibilities;
(vii) advising on possibilities for retraining and reassignment of
surplus staff to other responsibilities;
(viii) providing advice on leadership training and select a small
group of people to work in an overseas utility to learn
advanced skills of utility management to enable them to train
other staff and managers;



Annex 8.1
Page 10 of 12
(ix) providing assistance in enhancement of customer relations
facilities, including the development of a public education
program to increase public awareness of the need for economic
water use practices; and
(x) preparing criteria and a program for performance objective
measurement for staff and management, and assist in its
establishment to allow for employee performance incentives to
improve staff efficiency.
(e)  Computerization
The computerization of DWASA's financial, billing and revenue
collection activities will form an important part of the task.
DWASA has already embarked on a computerization program under the
Third Dhaka Water Supply Project, and the consultants will assist
DWASA to expand this program. Tasks under this area will include,
but may not necessarily be limited to the following:
(i) the definition and analysis of existing procedures, codes,
manuals and reports used by DWASA in reporting, and financial
management revenue billing and collection systems and user
requirements, and make recommendations on the general
requirements for computerizing the general ledger, accounts
receivable and payable, payroll, inventory and fixed asset
systems, and all other periodic reports to be produced by
DWASA;
(ii) advice on systems and program specifications, and available
accounting software;
(iii) assistance in the selection of hardware, based on
considerations of available software, facilities for obtaining
servicing in Bangladesh, and potential for future expansion of
capacity;
(iv) assistance in the preparation of bid documents and technical
specifications for both the hardware and software; and
(v) assistance with testing and acceptance trials, system
implementation and post-implementation review.
IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING
Implementation
17.       It is expected that the consultancy will consist of a core team
consisting of people in the following areas: (a) technical and engineering;
(b) operations and maintenance; and (c) finance and accounting. This core
team would work with DWASA throughout the period of the consultancy. These
will be supported by short-term specialists in specific areas as required.
The need for the short-term expertise will be identified in the Implementation
Proposal, and TORs will be provided.



Annex 8.1
Page 11 of 12
18.       After the first three months, an implementation proposal will be
produced in draft form (within a month). This proposal will: (a) establish
priorities in the actions to be taken; (b) identify the outputs to be
achieved; and (c) identify the methodology to be used. The proposal will also
include proposals for formal training, study tours, equipment required and any
administrative arrangements to be established to facilitate implementation,
and proposals to improve accountability, responsibility, incentives, and
sanctions for staff.
19.       During the Implementation Phase, DWASA will produce tender
documents for any work planned for the phase. The consultants will assist
DWASA in the preparation of these documents.
Operational Manuals
20.       Apart from the normal progress reports detailed below, it is
required that operational manuals be prepared and left with DWASA for every
aspect of DWASA's activities that the Partner will be involved in, for use in
day-to-day work and for use by DWASA's trainers. Manuals should be in
English, and simple and easy to understand, to facilitate translation into
Bengali, if necessary.
Reporting Requirements
21.       The following types of reports will be produced by the Partner
during the course of the Twinning Program:
(a) Implementation Proposal: This will be based on the results of the
diagnostic assessment of DWASA to be undertaken in the first phase
of the project. (para. 15);
(b) Routine Progress Reports: A bi-monthly report will be produced
describing progress being achieved in the respected activities for
each reporting period, and the expected activities for the coming
reporting period, and a description of the current problems and
recommendations on possible solutions;
(c) Milestone Report: At the beginning of each activity, a short
inception report will be prepared summarizing the objectives of the
activity, the time frame of the activity and the expected output.
This will be based on the diagnostic report prepared in the first
phase of the program. At the end of each activity, a second report
will be prepared outlining the achievements of the activity, the
tasks accomplished and follow-up steps to be undertaken.
(d) Evaluation Report: An evaluation will be undertaken every year by
the Partner, in conjunction with DWASA staff of the institutional
development directly attributable to the program, and a report
prepared. Experts from the Partner's institution not related to
the activities under evaluation will assist in the evaluation to
ensure a critical assessment. This report will be discussed with
the Program Review Committee to check real progress on the program



Annex 8.1
Page 12 of 12
and to ensure that planned activities are still in tune with
Government and DWASA objectives and priorities;
(e) Final Report: On completion of the assignment, a final completion
report will be prepared summarizing the effectiveness of the whole
program, the achievements and the lessons learned, including the
follow-up required from both DWASA and the Partner to ensure
sustainability of the program. The report will also make
recommendations for future assistance.



Annex 9.1
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
LAND ACQUISITION
1.          Land required for the physical investment aspects of the project
consist of the following:
(a)   land required on the foreshore of the Sitalakya River for the Pump
station and the intake, amounting to 0.91 acres;
(b)   land required for the right-of-way (ROW) for the culvert from the
River to the DND Canal amounting to 1.45 acres;
(c)   land required for the ROW for the culvert from the end of the DND
canal to the treatment plant site amounting to 3.64 acres; and
(d)   land at the treatment plant site amounting to 54.4 acres.  Of this
land, 13.6 acres will be used for the proposed project.
2.          Total land acquired now by DWASA for the project amounts to 6
acres, consisting of the parcels under a, b, and c above. The assessed value
of this land is US$0.8 million, which is 0.5Z of the total project cost. This
land acquisition has been approved by the Ministry of Land and is now
complete. About 37 private plots are affected.
3.          Land for the treatment plant (54.4 acres) was acquired by DWASA in
1963 under the First Dhaka Water Supply Project, in preparation for the Second
DWASA project, which was expected to be a surface water option. During
preparation of the second project the scope and size was significantly reduced
and groundwater was used instead. DWASA retained control of the land for use
in a follow-up project. The proposed project is the first surface water
supply project, and 13.6 acres of the 54 acres will be developed for the
plant. The assessed value of the total land is US$23.8 million. This is only
a nominal value as there is not going to be any transfer of funds involved.
RESETTLEMENT
4.          Acquisition of the six acres involves the following resettlement
issues:
(a)   at the Sarulia intake point, (item a above), there will be loss of
foreshore, and acquisition involves removal of households on the
foreshore, estimated to be around twenty.
(b)   on the conveyance from the intake to the DND canal (item b above),
there are two fish ponds that will be affected by the culvert.



Annex 9.1
Page 2 of 3
The culvert will also pass through the grounds of a school. No
buildings will be affected.
(c)   on the culvert from the DND canal to the treatment plant site,
there are six squatter shacks that will have to be removed. The
rest of the culvert will be built on agricultural land (involving
compensation, but no relocation); and
(d)   at the treatment plant site, the land is currently free of
settlements because it usually water-logged. The project includes
land development and filling at the site to raise the level and
make the site flood free.
5.          The total provision for the land to be acquired under the project
is US$0.8 million. This includes cost of the land of 0.45 million and
compensation for any loss of land along the ROW and for shacks along the DND
canal. This is discussed below.
6.          Based on the level of the relocation under these components a full
socio-economic survey and resettlement action plan was not warranted.
However, DWASA agreed to comply with IDA's resettlement guidelines, which
require that:
(a)   compensation for loss of properties is paid at the real market
value.
(b)   assistance to people who have to relocate homes or enterprises is
given, in terms of securing an alternative site for relocation or
compensation for relocation costs;
(c)   compensation for temporary or permanent loss of incomes is paid,
through a nominal lump-sum payment;
(d)   payment of compensation is completed in full before eviction; and
(e)   social services/public amenities that are affected are replaced.
Compensation payable for loss of temporary or permanent property was agreed
between DWASA and the project affected people (PAP). DWASA was asked by IDA
to confirm that arrangements for payment of compensation meet these criteria.
The confirmation was received from DWASA. In addition, DWASA retained a local
consultant to assist in resettlement activities, and in payment of
compensation.
DND CANAL
7.          Raw water from the intake to the treatment plant will flow through
the DND canal owned by the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB). This
canal was built in the 1970's for irrigation purposes, but is now being used
less for irrigation, because of the expansion of the city, which has resulted
in agricultural land being converted to urban land. The canal is still owned



Annex 9.1
Page 3 of 3
by BWDB, but DWASA has signed an agreement with BWDB to use the canal to
convey raw water to the treatment plant site. There were about 180 temporary
wooden and tin shacks (built on stilts) along the canal, mainly traders,
illegally sited on BWDB land. On the banks of the canal, there were about 90
washing sites, also illegally built on BWDB land. During appraisal, a quick
survey showed that half of the shacks were empty.
8.          To protect the quality of the raw water and prevent pollution,
these shacks were removed and a fence was built on both sides of the canal.
This did not result in permanent loss of income for the traders since they
have relocated to a market nearby recently built by Dhaka City Corporation.
However, provision was made in the project for assistance with this
relocation, and compensation for temporary loss of income for the traders.
This was paid through a nominal lump-sum amount.
9.          The fence along the canal has resulted in loss of access to the
washing sites and present unauthorized extraction for domestic and in some
cases, commercial use. Included in the project is a provision of the
construction of new washing points away from the canal, using groundwater
(i.e. handpumps). This is being done with consultation with local
communities, and DWASA has been asked to prepare a plan involving these
communities, on the location of these handpumps. The impact will be positive
in that the communities will have access to cleaner water.
10.         Based on this position, no full resettlement action plan is
warranted for these reasons:
(a)   no loss of land is involved along the DND canal since the land is
owned by BWDB and the traders are on the land illegally;
(b)   the relocation will be in the same community, and will involve
shifting the shacks some yards away;
Prior to negotiations DWASA confirmed arrangements for the monetary
compensation to be paid to the evicted traders, the modalities, and the basis
for the compensation.



Annex 9.2
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Procurement ArranRements
Procurement Method
Proiect Works               ICB       NCB      Other     NBF      Total
Civil Works
a. Intake Civil Works                 2.1        -         -        -        2.1
(2.1)      -         -         -       (2.1)
b. DND Canal Rehab                     _         _       0.7        -        0.7
c. Treatment Plant Site Rehab          -         -       2.3        -        2.3
d. Culvert from DND to Site           3.8        -         -        -        3.8
(3.8)      -         -         -       (3.8)
e. Treatment Plant                   23.0        -         -        -       23.0
(23.0)      -         -         -      (23.0)
f. Ancillary Structures              2.6         -        -         -        2.6
(2.6)       _-                 -       (2.6)
g. Primary Transmission              21.1        -         -        -       21.1
(14.8)      -         -         -      (14.8)
h. Secondary Transmmission            5.4        -         -        -        5.4
(3.6)       -        -         -       (3.6)
i. Distribution Sys Rehab            10.2        -        -         -       10.2
(6.8)       _-                 -       (6.8)
J. Exp of Service Conn                 -        2.8        -        -        2.8
-       (2.5)      -         -       (2.5)
k. Dev of Sewerage/San                 -        5.0        -        -        5.0
-       (5.0)      -         -       (5.0)
Goods and Equipment
a. Intake and Pump equip              1.6        -         -        -        1.6
(0.9)      -         -         -       (0.9)
b. Electro-mechanical                  -         -         -       53.7     53.7
c. Miscellaneous Equipment            1.5      0.2        -         -        1.7
(1.0)    (0.2)       _        -        (1.2)



Annex 9.2
Page 2 of 2
Procurement Method
Proiect Works               ICB       NCB      Other     NBF      Total
Consultancy Services
a. Water Resources Management           -        -         -       1.3        1.3
Study                                        -         -         -          -
b. Management Operational               -        -        4.0        -        4.0
(Twinning) Program                           -       (4.0)       -       (4.0)
c. Contracting out of DWASA             -        -        0.8       -        0.8
Services                                     -       (0.8)       -       (0.8)
d. Training                             -        -        1.1       -        1.1
-      (1.1)       _       (1.1)
e. Management Support                   -        -        0.9       _        0.9
(Senior Contract Staff)                      -       (0.9)       -       (0.9)
f. Project Preparation                  -        -       0.1        -        0.1
-      (o0.1)      -       (0.1)
g. Construction Supervision             -        -        6.2        -       6.2
-      (6.2)       -       (6.2)
h. Tariff Implementation                -        -        0.1       -        0.1
_      (0.1)       -       (0.1)
i. Preparation for Concession           -        -       0.8        -        0.8
(0.8)      -       (0.8)
Other
Land Acquisition                        -        -         -       24.5      24.5
Total                                71.3       8.0      17.0      79.5     175.8
(58.6)     (7.7)   (14.0)    (0.0)    (80.3)



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995       1       1996        1       1997                1998               1999                2000        1
ID   TaskName                                     Q1|Q2|Q3  Q4| Q1IQ2IQ3|Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4 |Q1  02  Q3  Q4  Q1   Q2|Q3|Q4|Q
I    Land Purchase
2        Culvert, DND Canal
3    Treatment Plant & Associated Works                                              I; 
4        Intake Sarulia                                      O'
5            Preparation of Bid Documents
6            IDA Review and Approval                               I
7            Preparation of Prequalification Docume                                    I
8            IDA Approval of Prequalification
9            Invitation of Prequalification
10            Prequalification Evaluation
11           Issue Bid Documents
12            Submission of Bids                                                      .
13            Evaluation
14           Award of Contract
15            Start of Task                                                                         6/16
16           Implementation                                                             -                         _
17       Canal Rehabilitation and Site Development
18       Culvert from DND Canal                                                       .
19            Prepare Bid Documents
20           IDA Review and Approval
21            Prequalification
P 1
Task                  _Summary                                  _Rolled Up Progress  >
Project FOURTH DWASA PROJECT ~x
Date: Mon 11/iB/96                   Progqress                               Rolled Up Tasko.
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone 0                                                                                                s
Page 1



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995               1996                1997                1998               1999                2000
ID  TaskName                                      Q1|Q20Q3 Q4OQ1IQ2Q3Q4 QQ2Q3IQ4Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4|Q10Q2|Q3|O41Q1|Q2|Q3|4O4Q1
22           IDA Approval of Prequalification
23           Invitation of Prequalification
24           Prequalification Evaluation
25            Invitation of Bids
26           Bid Evaluation
27           Award of Contract
28           Start of Task                                                                          6/25
29            Execution and ImplementationExecu
30       Treatment Plant
31            Evaluation of EM Bids
32           Award of EM contract
33            Preparation of CW Designs
34            Preparation of CW Bid documents
35           Prequalification Documents                                        -      I
36           IDA Review and Approval                                                        I
37           Invitation of Prequalification*
38           Prequalification Evaluation
39           Invitation to Bid
40           Bid Evaluation
41           Award of Contract                                                                                                                                         :
42           Start of Task                                                                             *  10/16
m X
x
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress                                         1'0
Project: FOURTH DWASA PROJECT                                                                                                                                                  o .o
Date: Mon 11/18/96                   Progress                                Rolled UpTask  
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone 0                                                                                                 v
Page 2



Fourth Dhaka Water Suppiy Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995               1996               1997               1998               1999               2000
ID   Task Name                                            Q31          | Q32 I Q3 I Q4  Q1| Q2  0Q3   Q4  1    Q2  0 03 | Q4 01 I Q2  0 Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3 |Q4 ~Q1
43           Implementation
44       Ancillary Structures                                              i_ 
45           Appointment of consultant                              I
46           Preparation of Bidding Documents
47           Preparation of Preq. Documents
48           IDA Review of PQ and Bid Documents                                                                                                :
49           Invitation of Prequalification
50           Prequalification Evaluation
51           Invitation of Bids
52           Bid Evaluation
53           Award of contract                                    :
54           Start of Task                                                                       6/27
55           Implementation                                                        .i_
56   Primary and Secondary Transmission                                   O
57       Preparation of Bid Documents
58       Preparation of Preq. Documents
59       IDA Review of Preq and Bid Documents
60       Invitation of Prequalification
61       Prequalification Evaluation
62       Invitation of Bids
63       Award of Contract                                                                      m
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress_    o_                _       _
0*
Project: FOURTH DWASA PROJECT    ProgresswRolled Upag3
Date: Mon 11/18196PrgesRldUpTk 
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 3



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995              1996       1       1997               1998               1999               2000
ID   TaskName                                   01  02   Q3 04  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  02  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  01  02  03  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  0Q4  0 1
64       Start of Task                                                                              8/29
65       Implementation                                                                           __.
66   Distribution System Rehabilitation
67       Leak Detection Program
68           Start of Task
69           Implementation of First Phase Program
70           Second & Third Phase Program
71               Preparation of TORtLOI for 2nd & 3
72               Preparation of Draft Contract & Sh
73               Invitation of Bids
74               Award of Contract
75               Start of Task                                                              3/25
76               Implementation of 2nd & 3rd Phase
77       System Rehabilitation
78           Start of Task
79           Implementation of First Year Program
80          Implementation of Second Year Progra                                                                  -
81           Implementation of Third Year Program                                                                                  -
82           Implementation of Fourth Year Programm                                                                                                  -
83          Implementation of Fifth Year Program
84       Tubewell Regeneration                   _
Task                                  Summary                 _              Rolled Up Progress                                       _ x
Project: FOURTH DWASA PROJECT                                                                                                                                             o.
Date Mon 11118t96                   Progress                              Rolled Up Task            - w
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone
Page 4



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995       |      1996               1997               1998              I 999       |      2000
ID   Task Name                                  Q10Q20Q3  Q4IQl |Q2Q030 Q4|01 |Q2  Q3  0Q4  Q1|Q2  030Q4  Q1Q2  Q3  Q4Q   Q2   3Q4Q1
85           Preparation of Four Year Program                    .
86           Start of Program                                                     | *  1/24
87          Implementation                  
88   Expansion of Service Connections
89       Tertiary distribution & House connections
90           Implementation of First Year Program                                                    -
91          Implementation of Second Year Progra
92          Implementation of Third Year Program                                                                                        -
93          Implementation of Fourth Year Program
94       Crash Meter Installation Program
96           Preparation of Service Contract
96          Invitation of Offers
97           Award of Contract
98           Start of Program
99          Implementation
100  Development of Sewerage /Sanitation
101      Feasibility Study                                                                              _________
102          Preparation of TORILOI
103          Preparation of Draft ContracUShortlist
104          Invitation to Bid
105          Evaluation of Bids
Task                                  Summary                               Rolkd  Up Progress_
Project: FOURTH DWASA PROJECT                                                                                                                                            v
Date: Mon 11118/96                 Progress                              Rollbd Up Taskc.
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 0                                                                                           t
Page 5



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995       JI        9o               1997               1998       [       1999               2000
ID   TaskName                                   01  0Q2  0 Q3  04 | Q1 I Q2 I Q3  04  Q1  0 Q2  0 Q3  0 Q4 0  1  02  03  04[ 01  0 02  0 Q3    1 Q01  Q2  03   Q4  01
106           Award of Contract                                                       i
107           Start of Study
108          Implementation of Study
109       Physdcal Works/Sewerage Rehab/Latrlnes                                                                                                                    -
110           Start of Works                                                                                     *7/1
111          Implbmentatlon                                                                                                                                         U
112  Institutional Strengthening                                                      L I                 _                 I
113       Water Resources Management study                                      y         |
114           Preparation of TOR/LOI0
115           Preparation of Draft Contract/Shortlist
116          Invitation to Bid
117           Evaluation of Bids
118           Award of Contract 
119           Start of Study
120          Implementation                                                                              I                                     I
121       Management Support(Twlnning) Program
122           Preparation of TOR/LO.1
123           Preparation of Draft Contract/Shortlist                                                                                                             i
124          Invitation to Bid
126           Evaluation of Bids
126          Award of Contract
Task                                  Sumr                                   Role Up Prgrs                       X
Project FOURTH DWASA PROJECT                                                                                                                                                v
Date: Mon 11/18/96                  Progress                              Rolled Up Tasko.
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone                                            
Page 6



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995               1996               1997               1998               1999               2000
ID   Task Name                                  Q1 |0Q2  0 Q3 |0Q4  Q1 LQ2 | Q3  Q4j  Q1  0 Q2 |0Q3  0 Q4  Q1  0 Q2  Q3  Q4 Q03   Q2 | Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql
127          Implementation Diagnostic Phase
128           Start of Program                                                      *  1/1
129          Implementation: 2nd Phase                             ._._|
130       Contracting out DWASA Services             .             .                  .                  -   -
131           Preparation of Service Contract
132          Invitation of Offers
133          Award of contract
134          Start of Program                                                        *  12127
135          Implementation                                        .H
136       Training                                                 .                  .                i                   I                                      .
137           Preparation of Program
138          Implementation                                                                           I  ' 
139       Management Support (Snr. Contract Staff                  :                                     I                                                        .
140           Preparation of Incentives Program
141          Appointment of Senior Staff
142           Implementation of Incentive System
143  Technical Assistance
144       Equipment
145          Needs Assessment
146          Procurement
147       Project Preparation (Ancilary Works, Ordi
Proect FORT  DWSA  ROJCT  Task                                   Summary                _Rolled Up Progress                                                     0 
Date: Mon 11/18/96                  Progress                              Rolled Up Taskage 7
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone ot
Page 7



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1995               1996        1       1997                I 98              I 999               2000
ID   Task Name                                    Q1 Q2  Q3 | Q4 |Q1Q2|Q31Q4 I Ql I Q2 I Q3 I Q4 I Q1  Q2 I Q3 I Q4 I Q1   Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1   Q2 I Q3 I Q4 |Q1
148           Ordinance Preparation
149           Design of Ancillary Works
150       Construction Supervision & Network Ana
161           Preparation of TOR/LOI
152           Preparation of Draft Contrac/Shortlist
153           Invitation to bid
154           Evaluation of Bids
155           Award of Contract
156           Start of Supervision                                                                                 3/20
157           Implementation                                                                                     __:
158       Strategy Study for Private participation     _
.                                                                       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
159           Terms of reference
160           Invitations to Tender
161           Award of contact
162           Commencement of Study                                                                5/27
163           Strategy Study                                                                        -
164           Implementation                                                           .
165       Implementation of Tariff Study                                                       -
166   Project Processing
167       Negotiations
168       Board Presentation                                                                                                                               _
Task                                    Summary                 _Rolled Up Progress                                                      OD X
Project: FOURTH DWASA PROJECT                                                                                                                                                 o vo
Date: Mon 11/18/96                   Progress                                Rolled Up Task geh W
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone 0                                                                             ~
Page 8



Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Prject
Project Implenentation Schedule
1995               1996               1997               1998                1999               2000
ID   TaskName                                    Q1  02  03 [04  0Q1   2Q30401  Q2 I Q3  04  Qi  Q2  Q3  Q4 Q1   02  03  0Q4  Qi  02 Q3   04il
169       Effectiveness                                                                   *3/19                                                  l
* X
Project: FOURTH DWASA PROJECT                                                                                                                                               %0 
Date: Mon 11118/96                  Progress                               Rolled Up Task 9                                                                                     o
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone gx
Page 9



Annex 9.4
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal                Disbursement         Cumulative                 Bank
Year                    Per Period        Disbursement                Profile
US$ Million        US$ Million         Z          Z
FY97
December 31, 1996          -               -            -
June 30, 1997                  1.5                1.5             2          3
FY98
December 31, 1997              7.7                9.2             11         3
June 30, 1998                  7.7               16.9             21         6
FY99
December 31, 1998             10.8               27.7             34        10
June 30, 1999                 10.6               38.3             48        18
FYOO
December 31, 1999             11.7               50.0             62       26
June 30, 2000                 10.5               60.5             75       38
FY01
December 31, 2000              8.2               68.7             86        46
June 30, 2001                 5.4                74.1             92       58
FY02
December 31, 2001              4.5               78.6             98        70
June 30, 2002                  1.7               80.3            100       78
FY03
December 31, 2002               -                  -              -        86
June 30, 2003                   -                  -              -        94
FY04
December 31, 2003               -                  -              -        96
June 30, 2004                   -                  -              -        98
FY05
December 31, 2004               -                  -              -       100



Annex 9.5
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Indicative Supervision Mission Schedule
1.    Bank Input to Key Activities
Bank input to supervision is expected to require about 95 staff weeks.
Supervision by IDA would be co-ordinated with the French Trade Commission,
and will involve review of implementation progress, procurement actions,
achievement of agreed institutional reform targets, and progress reports.
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
DWASA will be responsible for project monitoring, implementation and co-
ordination of activities. The Project Implementation Unit (headed by a
Project Director) will oversee all contracts, will be the focal liaison
unit of supervision missions   and will be responsible for providing
information required by all mi.iiions.  The Project Director will attend
all briefing and supervision mission wrap-up meetings.
3.    Supervision Input
The indicative staff supervision input to key activities is given in the
table below:
Approximate                                      Skills            Staff Input
Date            Activity                     Required          (Staff Weeksi
1.   01/97           Project Launch Workshop        TM, SE, PS, ES,          12
Start of Project              P0, RS
2.   05/97            Initial Review of Progress   TM, SE, ES, IS,            10
in Implementation
3.   10/97            Project Supervision with      TM, SE, ES, IS,           8
focus on Sanitation           P0
Program, Water Resources
Study, and Twinning Program
4.   03/98           Project Supervision            TM, SE, PS                8
5.   09/98            Mid-Term Review of all        TM, SE, IS, PS, ES,       12
Project Components            TRG, P0



Annex 9.5
Page 2 of 2
6.   02/99            Project Supervision            TM, SE, PS, PO            6
7.   07/99            Project Supervision           TM, SE, PS, PO             6
8.   01/00            Project Supervision            TM, SE, PO                6
9.   07/00            Project Supervision            TM, SE, PO                6
10.   01/01            Project Supervision            TM, SE, PO, WS            6
11.   06/01            Project Supervision           TM, SE, PO                 6
12.   12/01            Project Supervision and        TM, SE, PO, ES             6
ICR
TM    -          Task Manager (Financial Analyst)
SE    -         Sanitary Engineer
PS    -         Procurement Specialist
ES    -         Environmental Specialist
PO    -         Program Officer (Resident Mission)
RS    -         Resettlement Specialist
IS    -         Institutional Specialist
TRG   -         Training Specialist
WS    -          Urban Water Supply Engineer



Annex 9.6
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Benchmarks for Assessing Progress at Mid-term Review
INTRODUCTION
1.          A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken mid-way through
project implementation, but in any case, no later than December 1998 to assess
project management, implementation status, progress against agreed performance
indicators, including privatization activities. The following benchmarks will
be used to assess progress at the mid-term review:-
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.          Treatment Plant and Associated Works: The following targets should
have been achieved:
a.    at least 40% of the construction of the treatment plant, including
the culvert from the DND canal to the treatment plant site;
b.    at least 50Z of the construction of the intake and pump station at
the Lakhya River;
C.    completion of ancillary works for the treatment plant; and
d.    at least 40Z of the implementation of the five year work program for
the primary and secondary transmission mains installation.
3.          Leak Detection and System Rehabilitation ProRrams:  The following
targets should have been achieved:
a.    completion of the first phase of the Leak Detection Program and
commencement of the second phase;
b.    completion of the first second year program and completion of at
least 60% of the second year programs for the system rehabilitation
program; and
c.    completion of at least 30% of the tubewell regeneration program
4.          Service Connections.  Meter Installations  and Sanitation:   The
following targets should have been achieved:
a.    completion of the first year program, and at least 40% of the second
year program for the tertiary distribution and house connection;
b.    completion of the Crash Meter Installation program; and



Annex 9.6
Page 2 of 3
c.    completion of the feasibility study and master plan for sewerage and
sanitation, and commencement of the physical work program;
5.          Institutional Development Technical Assistance:   The  following
targets and objectives should have been achieved:
a.    at least 50% of the work program on the Water Resources Management
Study should have been completed;
b.    the diagnostic phase of the Twinning Program should have been
completed, and the second phase should have started; and
c'.> the strategy study should be complete, and the implementation of
recommended actions for the sector reform and mobilization of
private finance should have started.
6.          Other Technical Assistance: The following targets should have been
achieved:
a.    completion of implementation of the revised tariff structure; and
b.    preparation of a training needs assessment and incentive system for
DWASA staff.
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
7.          Op,erational Tartets and Indicators:   The following operational
targets and indicators will be achieved:
a.    achievement of a meter coverage level of about 95Z;
b.    reduction of unaccounted for water to at most 39Z;
c.    increase the number of connections to at least 187,000;
d.    enhance the staff productivity level to about 17 staff per 1000
connections; and
e.    improve the average well productivity to about 4.0 million liters
per day.
8.          Financial Ratios and Leverage Indicators: The following rations and
indicators will be achieved:
a.    a working ratio and operating ratio of 0.6 and 0.8 respectively;
b.    a receivables to monthly billing ratio of about three months;
c.    a contribution to investment of about 27Z;
d.    a revenue to collection efficiency of above 100Z;



Annex 9.6
Page 3 of 3
e.    debt service coverage of about 0.&;
f.    a debt to equity ratio of about 32%; and
g.    a current ratio of no more than 6.6.
9.          These benchmarks have been based on the agreed  implementation
schedule and the performance and efficiency targets which are part of DWASA's
Performance Agreement with the Government. These benchmarks will also be the
basis of the terms of reference for IDA's mid-term review mission.



BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
OWASA - Current Organization
CHAIRMAN
Member                                                  Mem ber                                                           Memberl
Administration     JEngireerhll                                                                                              Flnance
Secreaay                                              Chlof Engineer                                                 Commercial Manager    |
Deputy  Deputy            ~~~~Superintending    SuperintendnSudtndg                                                                        Executive
SecrutarynSecretarErEglnesr                                             Suelntending        Engilneer              (GtiIf             Chief          E     ngeer
Pecroneltammo                         Construcon        Plnig&Engineer                        Plant/               Revenue           Accounts            a 
PerBoaned        Servacen &                                                MODS            EtpfetOfficer                             Officer         Preveton
Board  Sefvlces           ~Development          einMilraiePeeto
sads/w51853a
o o
li -



BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
OWASA - Proposed Organization
I oard of Dirct
I   .Managng Direcbor
comWv SecretS4
DWrmManv                                 De taneging                               D        gpna Managera
Flnm & Adminlerallon                          Tachion                              Pkrpentl & Develpment
Maienanc
.                                                                                 '\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
r                      l               l                          .               .cer 
m m
sad&w51653b     o



Annex 11.1
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions to the Financial Proiections
1.    Basic Data and Assumptions
(i)      Population Growth Rate:  The current estimated population growth
rate of Dhaka City is about 4.0Z.   It is assumed that this
growth rate will continue for some time, but will decline to
about 3.7% from 1997 to the year 2,001.
(ii)     New Connections:  In FY95, Dhaka WASA provided nearly 11,107 new
connections.   Because of current limitations in water supply
availability, it is not expected that this will increase
significantly until after the new treatment plant is completed.
It has therefore been assumed that the number of new connections
will increase by 2Z between FY96 to FY98, and will increase by
5% annually from FY98 to FYOO, and 3% by the year 2001, at which
the new capacity would be almost fully utilized.
(iii)    New Hydrants:  The number of new hydrants per annum is expected
to increase by the population growth rate through the project
period. Hydrants will continue to be installed in slum and low
income areas.
(iv)      Sewerage  Connections:    Currently,  DWASA  has  about  45,466
connections. In the absence of a sewerage development program
in the project, it is assumed that the growth in sewerage
connections will be similar to the population growth rate.
(v)      Total Population Supplied with Piped Water:  This is assumed to
grow from the current 65% of the population in the DWASA service
area to about 76% by the year 2001. This growth is a factor of
combination in the growth of the population and installation of
new connections. -
(vi)     Total Population Supplied through Hydrants:  Currently, it is
estimated that about 3.8% of the population is supplied through
hydrants. This is expected to grow to 4.1% by the year 2001.
(vii)    Consumption per capita per day (lpcd):   This is an estimate,
based on  past consumption patterns, as assessed in previous
studies,  and the feasibility study of the project.   It is
assumed that this will grow by 1% between FY97 up to FY99, and
will remain constant after 1999, due to rationing and lack of
water as growing per capita consumption cannot be fully
sustained.



Annex 11.1
Page 2 of 4
(viii)    Production Capacity:   The current production capacity is 192
IMGD, equivalent to 70,080 million gallons per year (MGY). to
101,313 MGY (277 IMGD) in FY99, when the new treatment plant is
completed.
(ix)     Actual Production:   Based on previous performance,  this is
assumed to increase by 3% up to 1998. Production increases by
15% in FY99 and 10% in the Year 2000 and 3% in the Year 2001.
This increase in production would utilize available production
capacity by the year 2001.
(x)      Unaccounted for Water:  Currently, the level of unaccounted for
water is estimated to be about 49Z.  It is assumed that this
will decline by about 3% annually to about 30% by the year 2001
due to the leak detection and control program, and the crash
meter installation program to be implemented under the project.
(xi)     Available Sales:  This represents the amount of water actually
billed, i.e. DWASA's production less unaccounted-for-water. The
quantity of water billed is less than the actual consumption,
because of commercial and administrative losses, or water that
is used but not billed.
(xii)    Tariff Increases:  Between FY96 to FY00, the tariff increases
reflect required tariff levels to meet agreed revenue and
operating ratios targets, to cover all costs of operations and
debt service charges within four years.
2.    Actual and Proiected Income Statements
(i)      Consumption:  Based on past experience, it is assumed that 88%
of the water is consumed by domestic users, while 12% is used
commercially.   Revenue from commercial consumers is, however
higher(about 30%) because of the higher tariffs for commercial
consumers. These assumptions are maintained in the projections.
(ii)     Sewerage Revenue:   Sewerage is charged at 100% of the water
bill. In the past, sewerage revenue has been about 51% of water
revenue. This assumption is maintained in the projections.
(iii)    Other operating revenue:   This includes revenues like meter
charges, connection fees, etc.
(iv)     Power:  Based on increases in power costs already experienced in
FY95, it is expected that power costs in FY96 and FY97 will
increase by about 7%.  Power costs will continue to increase
because of increased abstraction costs as a result of the
lowering of the ground table. Total cost increases Vill be 32%
once the new treatment plant has been installed.'  This is
expected to level off to about 15% per annum by FY2000 (see
table 5).



Annex 11.1
Page 3 of 4
(v)      Chemicals:  Assumed to increase by 7% from FY96 and thereafter.
These costs are assumed to increase by 23% in FY98 to reflect
the increased chemical costs of the new treatment plant.
(vi)     Repairs and Maintenance:  These are assumed to increase by 15%
beginning in FY96.
(vii)     Salaries and WaRes:   These are assumed to increase by 15%
beginning FY96.
(viii)    Other Expenses:  These are assumed to increase by 8% beginning
in FY96.
(ix)     Insurance:   These are assumed to increase by 3% beginning in
FY96.
(x)      Provision for Doubtful Debt:  This is assumed to be 5% of total
operating revenue.
(xi)     Depreciation:   The depreciation rates for the new assets are
assumed to be: 2% for Intake, Pump Station, Culvert and the
Water Treatment Plant; 5% for ancillary structures; 3% for the
Primary and Secondary Distribution Systems Network and 20% for
motor vehicles.
(xii)    Interest:  Has been calculated on the following basis.  3% for
the First IDA Credit, 7.0% for the Second IDA Credit, 11.5% for
the Third IDA Credit, and 7.5% for the Fourth IDA Credit. In
addition,  DWASA has  incurred two ADB  loans whose  interest
charges are 7.0% and 12.5%.   The French Assistance will be
passed on to DWASA at the same terms as the IDA credit.
(xiii)    Payment  to  the  Exchequer:    A  mandatory  payment  to  the
Government by all public corporation. It is assumed that this
will be maintained at Taka 1 million. This payment represent
dividends for the Government's equity investment in DWASA.
3.    Source and Uses of Funds        -
(i)      Government Equity and Foreign Grants:  It is assumed that GOB's
contribution (equivalent to 35.8% of the total project cost)
will be passed on to DWASA as equity.
(ii)     Other grants:  These represent GOB budget allocations to finance
DWASA's other project expenditures in flood drainage services.
Based on the agreement between DWASA and GOB, it is assumed that
GOB would allocate about 75% of the cost of these expenditures.
(iii)    Japanese  Grant:    This  will  finance  the  Water  Resources
Management Study.



Annex 11.1
Page 4 of 4
(iv)      IDA Loans (Third Proiect):  These represent amounts disbursed in
FY93 and FY94. The project closed in June 1994.
(v)      IDA Loans (Fourth Project):  These represent disbursements for
the project expenditure, equivalent to about 46% of the total
project cost.
(vi)     Other Loans (Foreign):   These represent disbursement of ADB
loans under the First Drainage and Flood Protection Projects.
(vii)    Debt Repayment:  It is assumed that IDA and ADB and the French
Government loans are repaid in twenty five years from the date
of disbursement, including five years of grace.
(viii)    Other   Capital   Expenditures:       This   represents   capital
expenditures for works financed by DWASA, the Government, and
bilateral donors, and includes drainage works, sewerage and
selected plant rehabilitation, and other fixed assets.
(ix)      Investments:    No  new  investments  in  fixed  deposits  are
anticipated during the project period.   It is expected that
there will be a reduction of existing investments, as funds are
used to meet debt service arrears under the First, Second and
Third  IDA  credits.    This  is  reflected  in  a reduction  in
accumulated cash position, whose balances include investments in
fixed deposits.
4.    Balance Sheet
(i)      Gross Fixed Assets:  It is assumed that 70% of the fixed assets
investments in any year are treated as capital works-in-progress
and then transferred to fixed assets in the next year. 30% is
transferred to fixed assets in the same year.
(ii)      Intangible  Assets:     These  represent  goodwill  and  other
intangible assets.
(iii)    Net Accounts Receivables:  This has been assumed to gradually
decline to three months of total operating revenue by 1998.
(iv)      Stores and Inventory:   It is assumed that there will be a
reduction in stores and inventory between FY96 and FY97 because
of the sale and disposal of obsolete and unused stores. From
FY98, stores and inventories are assumed to increase by 3% per
annum.
(v)      Other current Assets:  Assumed to increase by 1% per annum.
(vi)     Accounts Payable:   Assumed to be three months of power and
chemical costs.



Annex 11.2
Table I
DANOLADEWH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BASIC DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS
yer ending
June 0               low        low        1964       1NS         IBM        1667        1166      1s6        2000        2D00
I              -                 I          I                          Prli- d                      I
POPULATION(OO)                                0.991.1    7,206.6    7,64.     7,077.9    8,3060    68,646        6,96.4     9,297.2    69,41.2    9,691111
DWASA ServIc Aea                               6,0160    6,21L.     1,427.6    S664.0    6,673.6    6,67.1    6,62.7         6,6666     6,760.2    7,060.11
Populatlon Growth PAN                            4.62      4.6%        4.5%       4.1%       4.1%        3%         2.%         &%         67% sr       rv
PIPED WATER SUPPLY
New Conneotr                                    664      1067        10,0       11,107     11,=o       11,66s     11,767      12.677     12.661 1.36111
Total Connectins                              119,763    160.486    141223     162,436     16376      176,321    167,108     160.466    212,410    226,61
Supplied with pipd WeJfr
Percentage SuppNed                              66.3%      61.7%      66.6%      64.6%       67.6%      61.1%      71.2%       73.0%      74.7%       76*14
Total Population ('0O)                         2,674.2   6,217.8    6,461,6    3,716.1    3,976.6    4,237.3    4,604.2    4,7637        6,076.1    6377
HYDRANT SUPPEY
New Hydrants                                        0         0         20          21         22         22          23         24         26          201
Total Hydrants                                  1,60       I,'        1,66       1,660      1,701       1,724      1,747       1,771      1,737       1,62f
Supplied through Hydra-tf
Percentage SuppIed                                .7%       3.7%       3.6%        .38%        .09%      .6%        4.0%        4.0%       4.1%        4.1%1
Total Population (000)                          261.3     2760        26.8       604.4      621.0       337.2      664.4       372.6      301.9      412.11
Population per oonnect_n                        24.63     24.67       24.62      24.S9      24.27       24.17      24.07       2066       2AU.       26.6
Population per Hydrant                          169.4      16         174.1      161.2       166.6      166.6      202.6       210.4      216.1      226.;!
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS                           66,66     39,412      41,601     43,608     41,408      47,612     49,680      61,666      4,216     36s,66
CONSUMPTION
Piped Waler
Consumption per eaptdap (iped)                   90.9      01.6        2.7       66.7       66.L        69.4      102.6       106.4      1066        107.1i
Total Consumption   O)                           50.4      *4.9        70.6       78L6        64.6       62S       101.S       110.8      116.8       127.'
Hydrants:
Consumption per cepiteldsy (Ipod)               7rh6       76J         77.3       71.0       00.4        62.6       66.6        87.8       88.7       U9JI
Total Coneumpton (MCQ)                            4.6       4.0         4.0        5.2        6.7         .1         6.6         7.2        7.6         S.
TOTAL WATER CONSUMPFION (AY)
Piped Water                                  21,607.6  26017.6   26,773.6   27,1S1.L    60,762.0    33,77.3    66,073.0   40,410.3    43,356.6   46,362Z0
Hydrants                                       1,A7.6    1,676.     1,790.0     1,90.7     2,009.7    2,23S.0     2,424.8    2,826.7    2,780.0    2,1904I
TOTAL ANNUAL CONSMLAPTION (May)               2,276.   26,76.0    27,56.7    20,89.2    32 S1.7    36,016.2    39,402.7   43,0791t    46,142.6   49,34.4
AVERAGE PER CAPITA .O)                           6.7       *0.6        01.6       62.        9LS         90.1      101.1       104.1      1062        106,4J
PRODUCTION
Production CapAt (M(OY)                       60,156.0  62,217.1   06,676.7   70,060.0   71,06t.0   71,065.0   71,06L.0   101,61&3    101,313,3  101,316.1
Actual ProducoIn ("Y)                         4",2u.6   64,100.1   67,260.0   66,046      60,716.3    62,66.     64,412.9   74,074.8   79,260.0   61,667.1.
Unaccounted dor Wr                              &L0%    6ta0%        41.1%      41.0%       46.0%      42.0%       36.0%      66.0%      260%        60.0'14
Avalable or Sale                              21,266.6   26,431.6   29,414.2   60,662.4   33,3664    36,271.3   36,291.0   47,407.0    66,104.2   67,146.1.
TAFMFFS
Donestic (per 1000 al                           12.62     14.40       166        18.64       16.4       16.69      18.96       16.96      18.96      18.60
Commercial (per 1000 9a                         40.70     46o.o      61.4        11.48       61.48      66.00       1.70       61.70      61.70      61.70
Tariff Increase                                  0.0%      15.0%      10.0%       0.0%        0.0%       7.0%       120%        0.0%       0.0%        0.04b



Annox 1 1.
Table 
BANGLADESlH
FOURTH CIIAKAWATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CTUAL AND POJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
yew ondlng
June30                1902      196        1994       196         19"        1907       1W6        19w        2000        2001
Production Capa le(Mhy                        o0,166s.  621267.1 1 6,97,s7    70,080.0   71,O68.O   71,06O.    71,065.0  101,313.1  101,213.3   101.t13.3
Actual P.oduotb nMVY                         48,23e.0  14,109.1    57,230.0   68,241.9   60,718.3   62,33.6   64,4129    74,074.8   79,260.0   81,637.8
Unaccounted for lar                             e.0*      660*       41.6*      41.0*      48.0*      42.0*      29.0*       36.0*      33.0*      10.0%
Available for Bab (MG3Y)                     31,26.6  21,431.3  23,416.2   30,U624    33,393.4   36,271.3  32,291.9   47,407.9   83,104.2   57,146.5
Domosric Consumptbon (6IQ)                   19,864.6  23,770.3   27,U6.2   286974.1   29,368.2   31,918.6   34,876.6   41,718.9   46,731.7   60,2u6.9
Commercial Consumptin (MOY)                   1,679.2    1660.9    1,331.1    3,676.1     4,007.2    4,362.6    4,716.0    5681.9    6,372.5    0,867.0
RWiENUE ('000)
Dou.netIc                                    24t,076   322,157    421,616   427,210    406,413    840,910    656,26o    791,626    se1,96       964 414
Cb.nrmrcla                                    64,267    73,172     76,239    169,364    206,2961   239,763    290,896    360,92    8930,186    423 063
310,641   s9329    498,604    tt61678    671,711      760,67     947,166   1,142,60    1,260,126   1,377,667
8awvrejmi ReVenue                            183,061    222265    297,640    341,648    377,643    438.902    a2,eo       642,4W9    719,99    774,482
Other Operating Rewnue                        186,26    41,439     37,226      29,6e0    32,366      36,270     36,444     41,904      4,6,761    49,787
TOTAl. OPEFATIN  REVENUE                     470,060   669024    821,676    112,906   1,061,711   1,264,644   1,816,116   1,827,213   2,046.800   2,201,636
DIFiECT EXPENSES 0ooo)
toer                                         196,113   266810    26.6689    634,688    366,901    406,392    426,404    617,193    68,1t76    641,U4
Chemicals                                     10,416    11,944      14,226     18,863     16,633     16,227     36,839     51,644      60,517     67,144
RepaMs and Malntiarnc                         61,252    26,961     60,A26      38,262     41,049     47,798     90,601     119,047    140,266    163.jw
Direci Salarle and  sM                        44",16    48,111     72840       63,421     91,934    110,324    126,873    146,904    167,769     12D,67
Other E.pen.we                                49,966    8e,681      7e,116      6,72      90,426     97,660    106,472    113,911    123,024    132,10
Total Direct Expenroo                        330,772   403,099    401.739    662,677    61J,169    e60,396    781,090      947,690   1,078,770  11,1196,20
ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES
Saries                                        36.267    47,067      70,967     61,612     1,1616    107,#91    124,121    142,739    164,160    68,72
Other Expenses                                 7,206     8,420      12,740     14,014     16,136     16,346     17,664      19,06      20,692     22,:i39
Insurance                                        6e         96        12s        126        130         134        136        142        141         161
Provision for Doubtful Debt                   2t,170    30,879      39,717     49,648     64,066     62,742     76,906     91,361     102,276    110,112
Total Administrative Expenses                 66,740    66,661     123,647    148,396    163,206    187,164    217,619    263,306    267,183    321,:!64
Total Workfng Expenee                        397,812   489,760    618,266    696275    776,374    687,662   1,006,909   1,2oo,90    1,368,934   1,620,c74
Income before Depreciation                    61,516   166,284    206,293    264,631     308,327    387,292    612,207    e2e,306    679,666 1    6e1,72
Depreciation                                 118,701    117,927    14O,669    128,303    162,145    167,604    223,003    22,878      22,710    236,c64
Operati,r; Profit                            (24,163    51,337      86,644    16,362     166,190    196,69    269,204    403,426    462,1686    448,696
Add: Other Income                             74,414 67,641         32,666      6,219     W8e84      34,661     36,263    326,98i6    66,677      t7,410
Incom befor Interest                          40,281   116s,68     66,192    201,647    187,076    234,260    324,467    439,368    488,613    413,1 8
Interest                                      6,706    107,794    166,114    164,140    164,913   230,160    327,187    404,196    426,961       442,8FS
Met Profit                                     4,676    11,091     (7,923)    6 7,407     23164      (9300)    (2,700)    38,190      6t3,6;72    40,810
Payment to the Exchequer                           0         0       1,000      1,00       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000      1,0J10
Net Earnings                                   4,876    11,091    ("6,922)     6407       21,164     (6,900)    (3,700)    64,190      6211672    39,Zt0



Ann*x 11.2
Tabbe3
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PPRJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
yer ending
June 30                1992      1993        1964       1366        1998        1967       1@66        1960       2000        2001
t~~~~~~~~ Foete^                                                                           1-d --
SOURCES OF FUNDS p000)
Inoorn/Loes) trorn Operadtion                    4,676     11,0@1    ([8,92)     386407      21,164      (660       (3,700)     34,190     e2,M2       S9,M
Depreciation                                   115,701    106,336    140,Ng      128,303    162,146     187,604    223,003     222,078    228,710     236,1614
AdMuetmrntn                                         0      11,861         0           0          0           0           0          0           0          0
Interes Expense                                     0          0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0          0
Total Funds from Operations                    120,276    129,018     71,748     160,710    173,30t     180,874    219,302    267,088    28@,282    276,294
EQUITY AND GRANTS
Govornment(IDAProIt)                           169,200    *0.360           0     144,707     8,4086    6t,807    364,867       116,032     103,686     26,383
Governmont(Other)                                   0          0     860,406    861,364    471,221      430,406    387,368    426.101     611,321     6614, ?1
Japanese Grant                                       0         0           0          0       9,476      12,672     11,607       9,963      6,917       1,574
Other Granla (ADS)                           1,260,280 174,264    301,400       447,700       6,000          0           0          0           0          0
Total Equity/Grants                           1,44,480    114,814    J@1,806   1,123,771   1,107,10@    841,868    744,829    862,067     022,104     691,474
LONG TERM DEST
Government                                      2h,976         0           0          0           0          0           0          0           0           0
IDALoane(ThirdProJeot)                        1t7,919    200,841     228,102          0           0          0           0          0           0          0
IDA Loans (Fourth Project)                          0          0          0      36,044     701,067     843,866    768,736     332,986    294,462      64,43
French Loan                                         0          0          0       7,410     360,662    406,336     336,086      64,004     31,941           0
Other (Foreign: AD)                            168,9S6    27,700      49,400     44,600      14,000          0           0          0           0          0
Total Long-Term Debt                           373,629    226,641    278,002      67,964   1,076,806   1,24@,224   1,121,667    666,662    S26,3S9     i4,443
Tota Inflow of Funds                          1,943,646  1,022,176   1,241,666   1,674,464   2,36CM   2,271,4     2,0U,528   1,196,147   1,267,776   1,021,412
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
infras. Improvement Proj.(AD8)                  17,600    44,200      70,800     44,200           0          0           0           0          0           0
Intagr. Flood Proj. (ADO)                           0    112,000     260,000    446,000    210,000           0           0          0           0           0
Other Capital Expenditure                     1,047,664   a60,632    821,470    86ii,331    603,396     453,066    407,7U2    448,627      636,263 3     ,, oS
Fourth IDA Project                                  0          0          0      186,800   1,424,300   1,684,600   1,468,600   816,000    436,300      61,400
Third IDA Project                              276,741     66,048          0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0
Debt Repayment                                  46,000    41,000      63,6        60,307     80,060      74.161     77,336      79,860      64,204    137,1170
Interest Payment                                18,000    21,000          0           0           0          0           0          0           0           0
Inveetmenta                                    101,162         0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0           0
Other                                          30,464     l6,102          0           0          0           0           0          0           0           0
Working Capital Chanee                         (82,610)    (1,946)   (126,720)    (32,366)    (76,161)    (80,369)    37,196    26,218     (36,364)    (86,(40)
Total Uses of Funds                           1,461,161  1,066,966   1,170,446   1,270,261   2,660,84   2,122,740   1,691,667   1.071,661   1,028,373  8e3,c42
Not Cash Positon                               462,4a4    (43,76)     62,106     104,163    116,032     146,743     96,941     124,666    211,406    1t6,t70
Aocumulated Cah Positon                        674,968   631,194    66,W302   1,067,48i6   1,218,4il7   1,401,229   1,486,171   1,619,768   1,831,172   1,068,841



Annex 11.2
Table 4
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
yar ending
June30                1902      1003       1904       1996        1066       1907       1066       1906       2000       2001
I Actud   1             -I  Projected
Gross Fixd Assets                           3,606,428  3,894,t48   4,984,618   6,047,760   7,715,789   9,643,490  11,367,314  12,576,806  13,390,964  14,066,820
lose: Depreciation                          1,159,666  1,266,001   1,400,670   1,632,973   1,686,118   1,872,721   2,096,724   2,318,602   2,646,312   2,751,376
Net Fixed Assets                            2,448,76M  2,826,647   3,677,948   4,614,787   6,030,671   7,670,776   9,271,600  10,268,203  10,546,t42  11,276,444
Intan gible Assets                          2,394,916  2,750,493   2,750,493   2,750,493   2,750,493   2,760,493   2,750,493   2,750,493   2,760,483   2,760,893
Work-in-Progres                               66,438   434,479    316,787    483,977   1,033,644   1,313,893   1,367,131   1,121,167   1,284,561   1,300,i88
Deferred Expenses                            263,813   302,487    302,4e7    302,487    302,447    302,467    302,467    302,487    302,4t7    302, 87
Investments                                        0         0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
TOTAL LONG-TERM ASSETS                      5,190,920  5,116,088   6,947,89t  8,061,724  10,117,271  12,037,631  13,801,861  14,432,330  15,183,163  16,726,192
CURHENT ASSETS
Net Accounts Receivables                     278,414   379,643    365,398    404,662    348,287    304,883    369,918    448,327    490,066    538,1112
Stores and Inventories                       424,604   226,023    213,772    192,396    196,167    204,112    210,236    216,542    223,036    229,'29
Advances for Material                         136,570   152,501    154,789    157,110    150,447    161,888    164,267    168,761    169,262    171,,91
Other Current Assets                          32,687    59,386     59,948      60,548     61,154     61,766     62,383     83,007      63,637     64, i73
Cash Balance                                 974,066   931,194    903,302   1,097,445   1,262,487   1,401,220   1,496,171   1,619,766   1,831,172   1,989,141
Total Current Assets                        1,547,431  1,747,716   1,787,209   1,912,060   2,017,5680   2,133,858   2,301,903   2,512,393   2,787,088   2,993,147
TOTAL ASSETS                                7,038,360  7,863,802   8,734,906   9,973,764  12,134,837  14,171,490  15,093,874  16,944,723  17,970,208  16,721,f39
ECUITY AND LIABILmES
Government Equity                           1,320,916  1,411,286   2,001,671   2,877,742   3,500,375   4,338,287   6,071,209   5,613,342   6,228,530   8,918,e30
Reserves                                     261,610   296,816    296,815    2906,816    290,816    206,816    296,816    296,816    296,616    296,116
Other Grants and Funds                      3,286,273  3,659,637   4,160,937   4,04,637   4,884,113   4,806,76    4,908,393   4,918,348   4,926,263   4,926,e37
Asset Revaluation RFscrve                    427,020   427,020    427,020    427,020    427,020    427,020    427,020    427,020    427,020    427,020
Accumulated (Deftlit/Proflt                      681    11,772    (67,151)   (20,744)       420      (6,510)   (10,210)    23,980    86,562    126,782
Total Not Worth                             5,266,600  6,006,410   6,620,292   7,989,470   9,117,743   9,902,396  10,603,228  11,279,503  11,964.179  12.606,083
LONG TERM LOANS
Government                                         0         0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
IDA Loans                                   1,698,768  1,727,666   1,622,314   1,06t,061   2,226,949   2,900,124   3,709,346   3,906,823   4,183,961   4,126,903
Other Loans (ADB)                                  0    27,700      77,100    121,600    138,600    136,160    133,338     129,040    122,120    116,330
OtherLoans(French)                                 0         0          0       7,410    386,9062    772,300   1,108,284   1,162,266   1,193,839   1,175,471
Total Long-Term Loans                       1,696,788  1,765,298   1,690,414   1,725,081   2,731,510   3,908,584   4,950,946   5,268,131   6,500,320   6,416,7T4
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Current Portion of L-T Debt                        0         0      62,307     609,060    74,181     77,336     79,806     54,204     137,979    200,410
Accounte Payable                              89,446    69,413      78,190    116,464    127,301    140,124    153,431    187,683    213,738    234,0 t6
Other Current Lisbiet                         8,666    42,961      c65,60      74,641     84,132     06,048    116,266    136,202    163,902    176,116
Total Current LiablIie                       156,102   102,004    20tt,199    250,263    285,584    312,608    348,602    407,089    606,709    609,6e2
TOTAL EOUITYILABILITIES                     7,036,360  7,683,602   6,734,905   9,973,764  12,134,837  14,171,480  16,993,674  16,944,723  17,070,208  18,721,529
DEBTIEOUITY RATIO                             23.20%    22.61%      19.93%     17.76%     23.05%     26.19%     31.66%      31.79%     31.48%     29.91%



AnneK 11.2
Tabe 6
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF OPERATING COSTS
1992      1993        1904       1996        1996       1997        1996       1990        2000       2001
QUANTITY OF WATER PRODUCED                      48,250     64,109     67,230      66,947     60,715      62,637     64,413      74,075     79,280      81,638
of which: Tubewoel                             46,326    81,946      64,941      66,689     68,287      60,036     61,630       6,111667   80,841     50,004
NarayanganjTreatment Plant                   966      1,082      1,148       1,179      1,214       1,261       1,127      1,296       1,387      1,420
ChandnigatTrgatmentPlant                     966      1,0S2      1,146       1,179      1,214       1,261       1,127      1,296       1,367      1,429
Saidabad Treatment Piant                       0         0           0          0           0          0      1o,s26      14,618      1,846      18,777
UNIT COSTS OF WATER PRODUCED
TUBEWELLS
Electricity (raka/oOO  al                       4.10      4.86        8.30       8.7?        6.16       6.61        7.07       7.87        8.10        8.87
Chemicals (Taka/ooo gal)                        0.16      0.18        0.17       0.19        0.20       0.21        0.22       0.23        0.24        0.25
Maintenance                                    0.18       0.18        0.21       0.24        0.27       0.31        0.36       0.42        0.44        0.66
NARAYANGA4J TREATMENT PLANT
Electricity (rakOWo gal                         242       2.66        2.88t      3.00        3.16       3.31        3.47       3.6         3.83        4.02
Chemicals (TaklOoo gal)                         1.94      1.94        2.18       2.29        2.41       2.63        2.66       2.79        2.93        3.07
Maintenance                                     0.36      0.36        0.41       0.48        0.88       0.63        0.72       0.83        0.96        1.10
CHANDNIGAT TREATMENT PLANT
Electricity (Taka/000 gal)                      3.14      330         3.70       3.88       4.07        4.26        4.4t       4.72        4.96        6.20
Chemical (Tak.j0V0 gl)                          1.68      1.66        1.87       1.96        2.06       2.16        2.27       2.39        2.61       2.63
Maintenance                                    0.24       0.24        0.28       0.32        0.37       0.42        0.48       0.66        0.64        0.73
SAIDABAC TREATMENT PLANT
Eleciriity (Taka000 gl)                        0.00       3.90       4.10        4.30        4.51       4.74        4.90       S.23        6.4C        6.76
Chemicals (Taka/000 ga                         0.00       1.61       1.99        1.78        1.U6       1.96        2.06       2.16        2.27       2.38
Maintenanoe                                    0.00       2.U1       3.02        3118       3.33        3.80        3.68      3a.          4.08       4.26
OPERATING COSTS
TUHEWELLS
Electricity                                 189,747    262,179    291,060     326,773    360,136    396,906    364,825      428,924    484,686     819,990
Chemicals                                     6,949      8,048       9,68e     10,68       11,426     12,367      11,137      12,889     14,268      16,012
Maintenanco                                   8,330      9,360      11,373     13,471      16,986     18,900      18,666     23,803      28,682      13,040
NARAYANGAII TREATMENT PLANT
Electriity                                     2,336     2,760       3,2t0      3,136       3,634      4,136       3,913      4,726       8,300       5,741
Chemicals                                      1,874     2,000       2,601      2,704      2,926       3,163       2,903      3,614       4,061      4,302
Maintenance                                     347        390        474         661        S66         788        816       1,079       1,328       1,673
CHANDNIGAT TREATMENT PLANT
Eloctricity                                   3,031      3,671      4,230       4,675      4,948       5,361       8064       6,118       6,870      7,430
Chemicals                                     1t,3       1,796       2,140      2,314       2,603      2,707       2,6S1      3,093       3,476       3,766
Maintenance                                     232       260         316        374         443         628        644         720        8U         1,049
SAIDABAD TREATMENT PLANT
Electricity (raka/ooo gal)                        0          0          0           0          0           0      62,901     77,429      91,340     11t8,1t3
Chemicals (TakIoo galQ                            0          0          0           0          0           0      21,848     31,977      37,723     '4,663
Maintenanco                                       0         0           0          0           0           0      30,068     67,178      67,461     11,86
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS
ELECTPIJCTY                                   196,113   288,510    290,880     334,S13    368,90e    406,392    426,404      517,103     868,176    61,364
CHEMICALS                                      10,416    11,944     14,226      1,Ui3       16,A8I3    18,227      36,6830    81,644      60,617     t7,tt44
MAINTENANCE                                    8,016      9,990      12,143     14,407      17,068     20,213      86,062     82,670      9.,317     1t1,668
OTHER REPAIRS & MAINTENANCE                   22,344     15,964      18,136     20,866     23,964      27,682      31,719     3S,477      411,48     48,241



Annex 11.3
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water and Sewer Tariffs
(Rates effective as of October 1994)
Current Tariffs Structure
1.    Category Wise Water Tariff
Cateaorv                       Unit       Taka per Unit
Residential and Community (Metered)          '000 Gallons       15.84
'000 Liters        3.49
Commercial and Office (Metered)              '000 Gallons       51.48
'000 Liters       11.35
Industrial (Metered)                         '000 Gallons       51.48
'000 Liters       11.35
2.    Non-metered Connections
(a)   Residential and Community: 22.62% annual valuation of
holding/annum.
(b)   Commercial and Office: 22.62% of annual valuation of
holding/annum.
(c)   Industrial: 22.62% of annual valuation of holding/annum.
Note: Sewer rate is equal to water rate for all water/sewer connected
holdings.
3.    Non-Connected Holdings
Sewer not connected but sewer line within 30 meter of holding: 5.85% of
annual valuation of holding per annum.
4.    Construction Period Rates (Taka per month)
These rates apply to buildings that are still under construction.
Connection Size           Domestic Rate           Commercial Rate
0.75"                    442.75                 1,265.00
1"                     759.00                  2,277.00
1.5"                   1,518.00                 4,554.00
2"                   3,162.50                  9,487.00
Note: Minimum rate for both water/sewer connections: Tk 16.45/month



Annex 11.3
Page 2 of 2
5.    Service Connection Fee
Water                                    Sewer
Diameter   Meter Fee   Connection Fee   Diameter   Residential   Commercial
0.75"       968.00         300.00          4"          200.00        250.00
1"      2,150.00        1,000.00         6"          500.00        500.00
1.5"     6,350.00        3,500.00         8"         1000.00       1000.00
2"      6,350.00        3,500.00
ProDosed Tariff Structure
- From 0 to 17.5 m 3 per month             Taka 3.00 per '000 liters
- Additional consumption between
17.5m3 to 27.5m3 per month               Taka 5.00 per '000 liters
- Additional consumption between
27.5m3 to 37.5m3 per month               Taka 7.00 per '000 liters
- Additional consumption above
37.Sm3                                   Taka 9.00 per '000 liters
- Industrial and commercial consumption   Taka 11.00 per '000 liters



Annex 12.1
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Performance Indicators
1.          A set of quantifiable and measurable Performance Indicators for
DWASA will be used to monitor the achievements of the agreed targets. These
targets will be defined in the Performance Agreement to be signed between
DWASA and GOB. The objective of these indicators would be: (a) to supervise
the management of DWASA by results, and on the basis of clearly defined and
pre-established criteria rather than by sporadic intervention; (b) to clarify
the perception of managers and GOB/MLG about DWASA objectives; and (c) to
motivate DWASA managers by linking the relationship between actual and desired
performance to a set of monetary and non-monetary incentives.
2.          The targets include physical, technical and financial indicators
and targets, and definitions are given below.
Main Definitions used for the Performance Indicators
I.    Operational Indicators:
(a)   Service Coverage Level:  This is the percentage of the population
that is supplied with water either through house connections or
standposts. DWASA will achieve the minimum agreed each year.
(b)   Meter Coverage Level:  This is the percentage of the connections
that are metered, to the total connections in DWASA's service
area. DWASA will achieve the minimum percentage agreed each year.
(c)   Unaccounted for Water:  This is the percentage of water lost in
the system during production and distribution, to total water
produced. This includes technical and non technical losses.
DWASA will achieve the agreed level of lower.
(d)   No. of End-Year Connections:  This is the absolute number of
connections that DWASA would achieve each year. The number would
be agreed annually, based on an assessment of water available.
(e)   Consumption (Liter/Capita/day):  This measures service quality and
provides information on adequacy of water production and ability
to provide water on demand. Consumption levels will be agreed on
the basis of water available. DWASA will achieve the minimum
level agreed.
(f)   Average Hours of Service/Per Day:  This will be reported on a
monthly basis to determine service reliability. This will be
agreed depending on the expected amount of water available, and
DWASA will attempt to achieve 24 hour service.



Annex 12.1
Page 2 of 3
(g)   Production Capacity:  Total amount of water produced as a
percentage of installed capacity. DWASA will achieve the agreed
capacity levels subject to capability od distribution network.
II.   Efficiency Indicators
(a)   Staff Productivity Index:  The ratio measures the efficiency of
DWASA as a utility by relating the number of staff with the number
of connections. The ratio is calculated as staff per '000
connections.
(b)   Personnel Costs/Operational Costs Index:  This measures the ratio
of personnel costs to operational costs. This ratio will be
reviewed simultaneously with the SPI above. DWASA will achieve a
ratio of 22Z or less.
(c)   Unit Operational Cost:  This is the unit operational cost per
cubic meter (M3) of water produced. This includes only direct
costs, e.g., electricity, chemicals maintenance. This ratio will
be measured separately for deep tubewells and treatment plant
costs. DWASA will achieve agreed unit costs or less.
(d)   Tube well Productivity:  This will measure the productivity of
DWASA tubewells, to be measured in million liters per day. DWASA
will achieve agreed levels or more.
III. Financial Indicators
(a)   Working Ratio:  The ratio of operating costs to operating
revenues. Operating costs exclude depreciation and interest
payments. Operating revenues include revenues from water and
sewerage connection fees, well licensing and reconnection fees.
The ratio should be below.
(b)   Operating Ratio:  The ratio of operating costs to operating
revenues. Operating costs is the ratio includes all expenses,
together with depreciation.
(c)   Accounts Receivables/Monthly Billing:  Expressed in month
equivalent of sales, this is the ratio between the year-end
accounts receivables and operating revenues, multiplied by 12.
DWASA will achieve a receivables/monthly billing ratio of three
months by FY97.
(d)   Percentage Contribution to Investment:  The proportion of capital
expenditures financed by the net internal cash generation. Net
internal cash generation is defined as operating profit plus
depreciation. DWASA will maintain the ratios agreed annually,and
contribute no less than 25Z to its investment program by FY98.



Annex 12.1
Page 3 of 3
(e)   Collection/Revenue/Efficiencv:  This is the percentage of
collections to total billed revenue. DWASA will achieve a minimum
of 90x.
IV.   Leverage Indicators
(a)   Debt Service Coverage Ratio:  This measures the extent to which
internal cash generation covers total debt service. It is total
internal cash generation (operating profit plus depreciation)
divided by total debt service (interest and principal). DWASA
will achieve the minimum or above the debt service coverage agreed
with the Government annually.
(b)   Debt Equity Ratio:  This is the total long term debt divided by
the total long term debt and equity.  DWASA will achieve agreed
levels of D/E ratio or below.
(c)   Current Ratio:  The level of current assets to current
liabilities. DWASA will achieve agreed current ratio levels, or
higher.



Annex 12. 1
FOURT  OIHA  WATER SUPLY PROJECT                                  Table 1
PEFFORMANO  ANM M        TOWR NI;t INIATOR8
yew ending
* Junoao 10                                      194         196           tt        1907       1tt6        1W          2X0C       2(001
OPERATIONAL TARGETS
Mtter Coverage Level                                         71.8%       73.0%       80.0%       $5,0%       90.0%      $LO%        36.0%       95.0%       6L.%
Unnaccounted for Waler                                         33%        40%         43%         4%          42%         33%        30%         30%         30%
End-Year Connocton                                         13t0,439    141,32      162,436     163.736     176,321    187,10t     133.418    212430      226,831
OPERATKONAL INDICATOFS
Water Service Coverage Lewi                                  664%        67.0%       69.0%       71.5%       734%       76.2%       77.0%       78.7%        0.4%
Consumption (titrslcaplWday)                                   31          92           #2         96          s6         101        104         106         106
Average houre of ervboeldey                                      a          a          10          13         1i           17         is          1s          1d
Productlon Cepctiry                                            67%    U    3%          34%        11%         U%          31%        73%         76%         01%
EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
Staff Productivity Inedx (stff/000 oonn)                       23          21          20          la          17          10         16          14          13
PersonneVOprating Cot Index                                  11.7%       13.0%       20.0%       20.4%       20.7%      20.4%       20.3%       20.8%       S1.7%
UnitOperatingCoeVDTW(Tk1m3)                                  6L13         5.4i        .20         6."6        7.13       7.06        8L21        3.32        3.47
Unit Operating CoeVtSWTP CI/m3)                               6.70        7.U5        7.t6        8.40        6.00       9.40        9.96       10.64       11.17
Avrg Welt Produ*lty (m eday)                                  2La          2.7         2.0         a8          4.0        4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Working Ratio                                                  0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7        0.0         0.6        0.7         0.7
Operating Ratio                                                0.8         0.9         0.0         0.8        0.8         0.6         0.6        0.8         0.8
Pceivabtle  Monthtly iNng                                     7.4         6.5         6.0        4.0           o         3.0        ao          6o          6.0
Contribution to Inveement                                    21.6%       33.2%       30.4%       156.%       10.4%      27.3%       36.0%      33.6%       117.3%
Collction/fevenue Effalency                                  IQ04%        6.0%       36.0%       36.0%      100.0%     100.0%      100.0%     100.0%       1111t.0%
Tariff Incrare                                                 16%         10%         0%          0%          7%         12A         0%          0%          0%
LEVERAGE INDICATOF8
Debt Service Coveae                                            0.8         0.2         0.8         0.1        0.7         0.6        0.0         1.0         0.8
DebtlEqulty Ratio (%)                                       22.61%      10.33%      17.70%      23.06%      26.10%     31.86%      31.73%     31.40%     23.91%
Current Ratio                                                 17.1         6.7         7.4         7.1        0.6         6.6         6.2        6.6         4.9



Annex 13.1
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
The economic analysis of the project was undertaken by considering the
marginal costs of deep tubewells (DTW) and the surface water treatment plant
(SWTP), to arrive at the economic least cost solution for the investment
program. The paragraphs below describe the methodology used, and the
underlying assumptions. The first section discusses the long run marginal cost
and the least cost solution, while the second section discusses the costs and
benefits of the recommended program. The analysis is based on a review of the
feasibility study, complemented with information collected by IDA missions
during appraisal.
Marginal Cost and Least-Cost Solution
1.    Given the nature of the proposed expansion program and the current
conditions of water supply in Dhaka, it is necessary to analyze the comparative
costs of water supplied by DTWs and SWTPs. According to the BCEOM Study, the
cost of a DTW field (15 tubewells) producing 395 l/s (7.5 IMGD) is US$ 11.74
million, including land acquisition. Its maintenance cost is US$ 184,400 per
year; and its operation cost (electricity, chlorine, labor) is US$ 378,500 per
year.1 It produces up to 12.45 million m per year. However, its rate of
production may decline due to the aggregate effect of ground water abstraction,
or because it may affect the production of other DTWs, or because the
development of other tubewells may affect it. According to DWASA officials,
pumping costs for DTWs have increased due to lower water levels, and
unscheduled repairs have also increased. In order to estimate unit costs,
maintenance costs have been increased by 10% to reflect possible unscheduled
repairs which have become frequent, and total output has been decreased by 10%
to account for probable losses during repairs.  The basic cost per m3 (i.e.,
without decline in production) is Tk 7.11 (Table 1).
2.    These costs may be eompared with the cost per m3 of the proposed plant at
Saidabad since all of its output will be taken up by the system once it-starts
operating. According to the updated cost provided by DWASA and BCEOM, the
capital cost of the Saidabad plant producing 2.63 m3/s is Tk 7.65 per m3; its
operation and maintenance cost is Tk 2.34 per m3 for a total of Tk 9.99 (US$
3
0.2498) per m
3.    The above costs are based on estimated prices to be paid by DWASA for
construction and operation of DTWs and the Saidabad SWTP. When these costs are
adjusted for taxes and other transfers to reflect economic values, they
decrease slightly to 6.12 Tk/m3 for water produced by DTWs without taking into
1 The original costs (BCEOM Study, Annex L) have been adjusted using an
inflation rate of 5.22% for 1992-94 (from Consumer Price Index) and an exchange
rate of 40 Tk/US$.



Annex 13.1
Page 2 of 10
account the risks discussed below. The cost of the Saidabad SWTP decreases to
9.09 Tk/m3.  These adjustments do not affect the comparison between these two
alternatives.2
4.    In order to properly compare these two alternatives, however, it -i-.
necessary to take into consideration the probable decline in production given
existing conditions of water levels. The probability of obtaining a reduced
production increases as the water table declines. It has been observed that,
for the study area, the rate of decline of the water table has been 0.8 m per
year.3  This has resulted in an increase in the required depth of the upper
well casings from 30 to 60 meters. Water level depths, which outside the city
are adequate for the use of hand pumps (8 m), are now more than 20 m in the
central areas of Dhaka (Motijheel, Old Dhaka, Gulshan). In some areas they have
declined almost 20 m since 1965. According to an ADB report, further
development of groundwater will require that: (1) most of the existing DWASA
DTWs (200) and private (350) be reconstructed and reset at deeper pump
settings; (2) adequate sites be found to construct additional DTWs. These
effects would increase unit costs significantly.
5.    Table 2 estimates unit costs for DTWs under different rates of decline.
The cost per m3 of water produced by the SWTP (Tk 10) is equivalent to the
production cost of DTWs at a 5% annual decline rate. This may be considered
the marginal cost of potable water service in Dhaka, since DTWs cannot be built
at the required rate in the short run and their expected decline rate may be
higher than 5%. In fact, according to the Environmental Impact Assessment,
further abstraction could be limited in some areas: "water supply can be
provided from the present underground resources only until 1994/95 ... for a
restricted area around Dhaka."4  Fifty additional DTWs would have to be built
just to replace the proposed Saidabad I plant; construction of these tubewells
in the short run could cause serious damage to the current system.   It could
require the replacement of most existing DTWs, both public and private. That
is, an attempt to expand ground water production rapidly could result in
massive expenditures to replace most tubewells.
2 Adjustments were made for taxes, which could be as high as 48% for some
imported items, and the Standard Conversion Factor of 0.90 provided by the Bank.
No adjustments were made for labor because, although abundant, most processes
(especially in construction) are as labor intensive as possible and wages are
considerably low, with the minimum wage at the equivalent of US$ 1.00 per day.
3 Seminar on Water Supply for Dhaka, July 1994.
4 BCEOM and EPC, Dhaka WASA IV and Saidabad Surface Water Treatment Plant,
Environmental Impact Assessment, Draft Final Report. April 1994.



Annex 13.1
Page 3 of 10
Table 1 - Dhaka Water SuppLy, Comparative costs of DTWs and the Saidabad I SWTP
DTWs (1)                                          5Saidabad SWTP (1)_
Year           Production   |         Costs tTk million)               Production              Costs (Tk million)_
(mittion m3P)                     l(million m3)l
Investment           0 & M                              Investment1    I           M
1                               149.33                                                     207.34
2                               149.33                                                    2438.28
3            11.52                                  40.62                                 2438.28
4            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
5            11.52                                  40.62               82.94                                193.74
6            11.52                                  40.62               82.94                                193.74
7            11.52                                  40.62               82.94                                193.74
8            11.52                20.05             40.62               82.94                                193.74
9            11.52                                  40.62               82.94                                193.74
10            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
11            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
12            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
13            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
14            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
15            11.52                20.05             40.62                82.94                               193.74
16            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
17            11.52              213.57              40.62                82.94                               193.74
18            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                               193.74
19            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
20            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
21            11.52                 8.16             40.62                82.94                                193.74
22            11.52                20.05             40.62                82.94                                193.74
23            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
24            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
25            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
26            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
27            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
28            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
29            11.52                20.05             40.62                82.94                                193.74
30            11.52                                  40.62                82.94                                193.74
31            11.52               -15.86             40.62                82.94                                193.74
Present values         81.07              290.52            285.92               527.21            4035.52            1231.52
Marginal cost Tk/m3                         3.58              3.53                                     7.65        -     2.34
Total marginal cost Tk/m3                             7.11                                                    9.99
Total marginal cost USS/m3                            0.1778                                                  0.2498
Sources: (1) Annex R.
6.    Under these circumstances, a reasonable strategy is to build the proposed
SWTP and meet remaining deficits with a cautious DTW expansion plan.   The
remaining question is whether the cost per m3 for surface water has been
minimized. From the history of the attempts to develop surface water sources
in Dhaka, it seems that considerable work has been done over the past 30 years
to develop and evaluate alternatives which have been now narrowed down to the
proposed plant. Any alternative previously studied has been considerably more
expensive. At this time, the Saidabad plant is the only technically viable
alternative whose costs can compete with those of DTWs.



Annex 13.1
Page 4 of 10
Table 2 - DTWs marginal cost of production by
rate of decline
Annual rate of         Cost              Cost
decline (%)          Tk/m3            US$/m3
0             7.11              0.18
1.0             7.70              0.19
2.0             8.29              0.21
3.0             8.88              0.22
4.0             9.46              0.24
--  5-.0      -10.04              0.25
6.0            10.62              0.27
7.0            11.19              0.28
8.0            11.75              0.29
9.0            12.31              0.31
10.0            12.86              0.32
Source: Table 5.
Benefit Cost Analysis
7.    In the previous section, it was shown that the best available alternative
for expansion of the water supply capacity for the study area is a combination
of the Saidabad plant and DTWs provided that the latter are developed taking
into consideration possible water abstraction problems. The Saidabad plant
should be started immediately due to the size of the projected deficit in the
short run and the impossibility to fully substitute it by DTWs. In this
section, the benefits and costs of this solution, included in the investment
program, are calculated. The project is defined as all the activities in the
first ?hase of the investment program required to increase gross capacity by
2.63 m Is and reduce losses from 34% to 20% in the next 10 years. Therefore,
the project not only includes the construction of Saidabad I but the
construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary distribution lines and
the improvement of DWASA's operating performance through technical assistance,
including a leak detection program.
8.    Benefits.  The benefits of potable water consumption are measured by its
value to consumers. This value is measured by the area under the demand curve.
In the absence of demand studies for the particular case of Dhaka, the demand
curve may be estimated by consumers willingness to pay as revealed by the
maximum amount that consumers are willing to pay for water. As mentioned



Annex 13.1
Page 5 of 10
previously, this is nearly 27 Tk/m3 or nearly 8 times the domestic tariff, not
including time spent on procuring it. This is based on purchases of
approximately 4 gallons for Tk 0.50. This is consistent with observations in
many other countries where this figure may be as much as 50 times the average
tariff.  If consumers are willing to pay Tk 27 per m 3 for consumption at the
level of 30 lpd, average annual consumption would be 59.45 million mi3.  On the
other extreme, if the price were close to zero, per capita consumption would be
only limited by the amount of appliances and other uses by households,and it
could be near 300 lpd. To many consumers with a household connection, the
marginal cost of water is zero since many of them do not have metered
connections or meters do not function. For these and other consumers for whom
the water bill is a very small fraction of their income,5 consumption is only
limited by the amount of requirements in their households. This "maximum"
consumption was estimated at 595 million m 3 per year.  Given these two points,
the rest of the demand curve may be determined as long as its elasticity along
its different segments is "reasonable." The demand curve, estimated under these
conditions, is given by the following equation:
Q - 595 - 19.835 P
where Q measures demand in millions i3 per year and P is the price per m3. This
function is described in Table 3. It should be noted that the equilibrium
condition, Price - Marginal Cost, is achieved at Tk 10 per m3, where demand is
200 lpd and elasticity -0.50. The corresponding capacity would be available in
1998.
9.    Annual gross benefits are measured by the area under the demand curve
showing the increased supply from the Saidabad I plant and the reduction in
losses made possible by the rehabilitation and improved operation of the
network. As expected, for the current level of supply, consumers would -be
willing to pay as much as Tk 15 per m3 .  The current domestic tariff is Tk 3.49
3
per mi. At this tariff, consumers demand as much as 265 lpd, almost three
times their current consumption (Table 3). Estimated benefits are shown in
Table 4 and 5.
s For example, consumers with an income of Tk 20,000 (US$ 500) per month who
consume 60 m3 per month pay less than 1Z (Tk 197 or US$ 4.92) of their monthly
income for water.



Annex 13.1
Page 6 of 10
Table 3 - Dhaka, Description of the estimated demand function for water (Q=a+bP)
Quantity     Intercept       SLope         Price      Consumption       Price      Required      Required
Q             a            b             P             Lpd        Elasticity     SuRply      Capacity
m`/yr                                    Tk/m3                                     mn/s          m3'/s
59.45           595         19.835          27          30.00         9.01          1.89         2.53
79.29           595         19.835          26          40.01         6.50          2.51         3.37
99.12           595         19.835          25          50.01         5.00          3.14         4.21
118.96           595         19.835         24           60.02         4.00          3.77         5.05
138.80           595         19.835          23          70.03         3.29          4.40         5.90
158.63           595         19.835          22          80.04         2.75          5.03         6.74
178.46           595         19.835          21          90.05         2.33          5.66         7.58
198.30           595         19.835          20         100.05         2.00          6.29         8.43
218.14           595         19.835          19         110.06         1.73          6.92         9.27
237.97           595         19.835          18         120.07         1.50          7.55        10.11
257.81           595         19.835          17         130.08         1.31          8.17        10.95
277.64           595         19.835          16         140.08         1.14          8.80        11.80
297.47           595         19.835          15         150.09         1.00          9.43        12.64 **
317.31           595          19.835         14         160.10         0.88         10.06        13.48
337.15           595          19.835         13         170.11         0.76         10.69        14.33
356.98           595         19.835          12         180.12         0.67         11.32        15.17
376.82           595         19.835          11         190.12         0.58         11.95        16.01
396.65           595         19.835          10         200.13         0.50         12.58        16.85 *
416.49           595         19.835           9         210.14         0.43         13.21        17.70
436.32           595         19.835           8         220.15         0.36         13.84        18.54
456.16           595         19.835           7         230.15         0.30         14.46        19.38
475.99           595         19.835           6         240.16         0.25         15.09        20.23
495.83           595         19.835           5         250.17         0.20         15.72        21.07
515.66           595         19.835           4         260.18         0.15         16.35        21.91
525.78           595         19.835        3.49         265.28         0.13         16.67        22.34
535.50           595         19.835           3         270.19         0.11         16.98        22.75
555.33           595         19.835           2         280.19         0.07         17.61        23.60
575.17           595         19.835           1         290.20         0.03         18.24        24.44
595.00           595         19.835           0         300.21         0.00         18.87        25.28
** Aprox. current consumption; * equilibrimn Level (Price = MarginaL Cost)
10.    With  the project,  the volume  of water  supplied  and demanded will be  the
equivalent of 12.58 m3Is and the equilibrium price would be Tk 10 per m3.
Benefits are shown in Table 4 as the sum of "value of net capacity" (increase
in consumption times price), since all production will be consumed when
available, and consumer's surplus. These are then the gross benefits of the
project per year; discounted at a 10% rate of return over 30 years, they
amount to Tk 11,855.41 million (US$ 296.39 million).
11.    Costs.   Project  costs  include  the construction,  operation  and
maintenance of the Saidabad plant and the cost of improving the distribution
network, including technical assistance, without which the benefits of the
plant would not be fully realized. Investment costs are distributed over a
seven year period. Annual costs include operation and maintenance. The
present value of costs, at a 12% discount rate, is Tk 5995.63 million (US$
149.89 million). For purposes of estimating economic costs, the value of the
land for the Saidabad site was taken as 50% of its estimated price since the
land is a vacant lot owned by DWASA most of which remains under water during
the monsoon and no alternative use has been planned. Gross taxes on specific
items were deducted from total costs and the Standard Conversion Factor of
0.90 was used to adjust local costs.



Annex 13.1
Page 7 of 10
12.   Economic Returns.  Given the above costs and benefits, net benefits of
the project amount to Tk 5859.78 million (US$ 146.49 million). The economic
rate of return is 22.26%. As shown in Table 9, net benefits are almost equal
to total costs which means that even if costs are increased by close to -100%,
the project would still be economically feasible at a 12% discount rate.
Moreover, if only 50% of the estimated benefits are obtained, the project is
still feasible.
13.   The main factor affecting project feasibility is the value of water but,
as mentioned previously, the willingness to pay is substantial and the
estimate used may be conservative given the water supply situation in Dhaka
and its probable development in the coming years. It must be noted that
population growth estimates may also be conservative. In sum, estimated
benefits are substantial as expected in a large and growing city with a large
fraction of low income population, low coverage and relatively low consumption
due to supply restrictions.
14.   It must be noted that the benefits come from both the increased-2ap*ity
and the loss reduction activities. Capacity expansion by itself - that is,
without reduction of losses - would be an economically marginal investment
given the high value of water. Its net present value would be US$ 16.3
million (at a 12% discount rate) and its IRR, 16%. Although loss reduction
activities by themselves are highly profitable in economic terms, with a net
present value of US$ 38.47 and an IRR of 29.3% (see Table 5), by themselves
they do not resolve the problem of rapidly growing deficits in any significant
manner. Furthermore, even though the IRR is higher for the loss reduction
program, the net present value (the first order condition in this case) of the
overall project is more than six times greater.



Annex 13.1
Page 8 of 10
TabLe 4 - Dhaka, Economic Costs and Benefits of the Water SuppLy Expansion Program
Saidabad               Increased                VaLue of    Consumer's      Gross                     Net
Year      Capacity    Losses         net        Price        net        surplus       Benefits      Costs     Benefits
M m3        (M)       capacity      Tk/m3    capacity        M Tk          N Tk        M Tk        M Tk
Mm ?N Tk
1996           0      0.34        0.00            0        0.00          0.00          0.00            0            0
1997           0      0.34        4.15        16.99       70.48          0.43         70.92      2012.83    -1941.91
1998           0      0.33        8.71        16.76      145.96          1.91        147.87      1287.17    -1139.30
1999           0      0.32       13.07        16.54      216.07          4.30        220.37      1006.70      -786.33
2000          83      0.31       74.69        13.43     1003.18        140.63       1143.81       516.63       627.18
2001           83     0.30       79.88        13.17     1051.95        160.83       1212.77       306.27       906.50
2002           83     0.28       90.25        12.65     1141.34        205.30       1346.63       306.27      1040.36
2003           83     0.26      100.62        12.12     1219.88        255.19       1475.07       306.27      1168.80
2004          83      0.24      110.99        11.60     1287.59        310.50       1598.09       306.27      1291.82
2005          83      0.22      121.36        11.08     1344.45        371.24       1715.69       306.27      1409.42
2006          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
2007          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27-    1475.14
2008          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
2009          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
2010          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
2011          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
2012          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
to
2032          83      0.20      127.37        10.78     1372.46        408.95       1781.41       306.27      1475.14
Present VaLues (12X discount rate) Million Tk N                                       11855.41      5995.63- -   5859.78
Present VaLues (12% discount rate) MiLLion USS                                           296.39       149.89      146.49
Internal Rate of return               22.26
N = miltion



Annex 13.1
Page 9 of 10
Table 5 - Dhaka, Economic Costs and Benefits of Loss Reduction Activities
Saidabad            Increased            Value of   consumer's    Gross                 Net
Year     Capacity   Losses      net       Price     net       surplus    Benefits    Costs    Benefits
M mu      (X)     capacity    Tk/m3   capacity      N Tk        M Tk       N Tk      N Tk
Mm Nf MTk
1996      0        0.34      0.00           0      0.00      0.00        0.00          0          0)
1997      0        0.34      0.00       10.32      0.00      0.00        0.00      27.29      -27.29
1998      0        0.33      4.36       10.19     44.36     15.27       59.63     342.61    -282.98
1999      0        0.32      8.71       10.05     87.58     31.10      118.68     436.43    -317.7i
2000       0       0.31     13.07        9.92    129.64     47.52      177.16     348.53    -171.3i'
2001       0       0.30     17.42        9.79    170.56     64.50      235.07     350.50    -115.4';
2002      0        0.28     26.13        9.53    248.96    100.20      349.16     253.09      96.07'
2003       0       0.26     34.84        9.26    322.77    138.19      460.95      144.45     316.5C
2004       0       0.24     43.55        9.00    391.98    178.47      570.45      65.33      505.13
2005       0       0.22     52.26        8.74    456.61    221.05      677.66      78.39      599.27'
2006      0        0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46     691.12
2007       0       0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46     691.12
2008       0       0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46      691.12
2009       0       0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46     691.12
2010       0       0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46-   691.1Z
2011       0       0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46     691.12
2012       0       0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46     691.12
a
2032      0        0.20     60.97        8.47    516.65    265.92      782.57      91.46     691.12
Present value (12% discount rate) Tk N                                    3479.56    1538.67    1940.89
Present value USS                                                           86.99      38.47      48.52
IRR       29.28%
M = million
Tariffs and Affordability
15.    As shown above,  the marginal cost of water is nearly 9 Tk/m3 (US$ 0.22
per m3), not including the cost of sewerage. The industrial and commercial
3
tariff is already at Tk 11 per m .  It is possible to design a tariff
structure which would increase the tariff for those income groups which can
easily afford an increase. The current tariff is almost 5% of monthly income
for the lowest income level (Taka 1,440.00 per month)  for a household
consuming 20 m3 per month. However, family units at this income level would
not have water service; instead, they make daily purchases in small amounts
and pay up to Tk 0.50 for a four-gallon container. The feasibility study
showed that low income families use on average 30 litres per capita per day,
i.e., 6 m3 per month for a household with 6.5 members,  or 1% of the minimum
income.   If the tariff is increased to 10 Tk/m3, the water bill would be 4% or
less of income for all but those with an income under Tk 5000 per month.
16.    Although in 1993-94 DWASA showed a surplus in its financial accounts,
its allocation to maintenance and rehabilitation are in sharp contrast to its
needs. Of the total Tk 854.3 million reported in revenue, only Tk 39.5
million were allocated to maintenance - mainly for emergency repairs - and
practically nothing to rehabilitation. If adequate amounts were allocated for
these activities, financial losses would be significant. Therefore, even if



Annex 13.1
Page 10 of 10
tariffs are not increased substantially in the short run, as required by the
marginal cost criterion, they will have to include more realistic levels of
costs to finance adequate maintenance and rehabilitation.
Conclusions
17.   Dhaka's public water supply is relatively low; it provides only 136 lpd
and, with estimated losses of 34%, average consumption from the DWASA system
is only 90 lpd. Coverage is about 65% of the population, but there are more
than 25 persons per connection. DWASA provides only a fraction of the
requirements of the industrial, commercial and government sectors. Private
operators supply most of their own requirements. DWASA's performance in
production and demand management needs considerable improvement. The
distribution network is in poor condition, and the quantity and quality of the
service are deficient. Capacity will have to be expanded substantially in the
near future to cope with a fast growing population, economic growth and a
relatively low consumption currently.
18.   One of the first priorities for the Government is to reorganize the
water supply sector. This requires an adequate regulatory framework for DWASA
as well as for private sector producers. It also requires an adequate demand
management program for DWASA as the main supplier for residential users. The
activities planned under the proposed Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project,
namely the construction of additional capacity, the rehabilitation of the
distribution network and the improvement of DWASA's management will address
the sector's basic problems. The economic analysis shows that investment in
these activities will generate substantial returns, as expected in a situation
where a large fraction of the population lack adequate water service and pay a
high price for small volumes of water to satisfy their basic needs. The
project as a whole has an internal rate of return of 22%.



Annex-14.1
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Summary of Prolect Environmental Impact Assessment
Introduction
1.          The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Fourth Dhaka
Water Supply Project presents the findings of an investigation undertaken on
behalf of Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA). The level of
analysis performed was on the basis of the project being designated as
Category B, as defined by the World Bank's Operational Manual 4.01. This
category requires a lesser level of environmental investigation than for
projects that are designated Category A, which requires full environmental
assessments.
2.          The assessment focused on the potential positive and negative
impact of the proposed surface water treatment plant and related components on
the environment and surrounding areas, and the likelihood of the existing
environment affecting the operation of the proposed works. The purpose of the
assessment was to ensure that the proposed project is environmentally sound,
and to identify and determine mitigation measures that may be necessary to
minimize or avoid negative environmental impact, and suggest modifications to
the proposed project components that may be advisable to maximize
environmental benefits.
Organi z at ion
3.          Although the project was determined to be in Category B, the
assessment is organized in the format outlined for a full Category A EIA.
This included an overview of the environment and current legislation, an
assessment of potential impact, an analysis of the environmental impact of
alternatives to the proposed project, development of a management action plan
to mitigate negative impacts, and identification of institutional needs to
implement environmental assessment recommendations.
Findings
4.          The Fourth DWASA Project marks the start of a major surface water
development program for DWASA. By the year 2020, the intention is to have a
capability of 200 IMGD. The EIA has focused in the first phase of this
development program. A major long-term benefit of the project will be the
provision of treated water to supplement groundwater abstraction and help
reduce drawdown of the latter. However, the major long-term benefits are
those connected with water quality; firstly, the chemical and other treatments
will produce potable water in comparatively large volumes and, secondly,
distribution of the treated water in the new water mains implemented during
the project will make treated water available for the first time to about
500,000 consumers, with great amenity and public health benefits. The
positive impacts will be strengthened by the concurrent program of leak



Annex 14.1
Page 2 of 8
detection and rehabilitation which will enable greater water pressures to be
maintained in the system and help prevent contamination from external sources.
5.          The third benefit is that in taking steps to preserve the quality
of its raw water supplies, DWASA will be improving the physical environment
along the DND Canal (for the Saidabad Development) and in the rivers providing
the raw water. This automatically implies measures to protect river
catchments from pollution, and the EIA makes clear recommendations for inter-
agency co-operation and the development of legal and other controls for water
protection
6.          This development of controls is essential, since maintenance of
raw water quality cannot be guaranteed in the future: what few planning
regulations exit can be easily flouted, monitoring and compliance checking are
minimal or non-existent, and there is no effective legislation under which
persistent offenders can be prosecuted for environmental pollution. The
passing of the 1994 Environmental Pollution legislation and supporting
Environmental Quality Standards is vital, and DWASA should press strongly for
adoption. Strengthening of the planning procedures is also urgently needed
and, as a first step, compulsory notification of the Department of Environment
(DOE) is recommended for all new industries or other developments likely to
make harmful discharges. This_ should be a mandatory part of new industry
registration (where tax and other concessions are incentives to register) and
the DOE, in consultation with DWASA and planning authorities, such as RAJUK,
should ensure that harmful discharges are banned from rivers and related
catchment areas used as surface water treatment plant raw water sources.
7.          This vulnerability of the river waters to major urban, industrial,
and agricultural development is the major negative impact of external
environmental influence on the project; minor effects can also be expected
from small developments along rivers.
8.          The project itself is expected to have five specially negative
impacts:
(a)   the production of increased volumes of wastewater concomitant with
the extra supply of water;
(b)   the restriction of certain urban and industrial enterprises in
locations which have otherwise favorable development
characteristics, such as communication, etc.; and
(c)   three specific effects of the Saidabad development on the DND
Canal and at the SWTP site:
(i)    the removal and relocation of washing points;
(ii)   the removal and relocation of shacks at present used for
small businesses; and
(iii)  the production of large volumes of sludge.



Annex 14.1
Page 3 of 8
9.          In parts of Dhaka City, notably the Old City and in the west of
the area to be supplied by DWASA IV, the sewerage system is in poor condition,
inadequate or non-existent. Mitigation measures will be a part of the
forthcoming Sanitation and Sewerage Study under the project. Siting of
industries is already a part of the zoning policies of the RAJUK which is in
the process of preparing the Dhaka Metropolitan Development Plan; DWASA needs
to liaise closely with this planning process. For the actions on the DND
Canal, a specific mitigation plan is proposed, to be undertaken by the
development contractor to fence the area along the DND Canal, in consultation
with DWASA.
10.         Mitigation of the possible impacts of sludge production will be
achieved by the use of settling lagoons and the periodic disposal of the
sludge in sanitary landfill operations.
11.         Minor impacts, such as possible accidental spillage of chemicals,
will be mitigated by normal operating and safety procedures.
12.         Finally, the investment in major surface water developments
automatically means that DWASA must take a broader view of environmental
developments for a wide area around Dhaka. It is recommended that DWASA set
up an Environmental Cell, developed from its existing Quantity Control
Department, to be a focus of environmental expertise and training within the
Authority and to undertake the necessary environmental monitoring actions.
Summary: Key Recommendations
DWASA must take the initiatives above, and the following actions:
Immediate Actions
1.          Send an outline of the proposed surface water treatment plan
developments to the main planning organizations, and restrictions required on
the rivers to be used as raw water sources, especially Lakhya/Balu River.
2.          Press for the rapid passing of the new environmental legislation,
already within the Parliamentary system and the Gazetting of Environmental
Quality Standards.
Short-Term Actions
3.          DWASA needs to put into place a short-term monitoring program
under an overall Environmental Monitoring Plan, with the establishment of an
Environmental Advisory Panel to advise on environmental problems. The DWASA
water laboratory should be rehabilitated and upgraded to start a major program
of water quality monitoring.
Long-Term Actions
4.          Formulation of an overall water resources development policy to
cover both surface and groundwater developments.



Annex 14.]1
Page 4 of 8
5.          Continuing monitoring of groundwater and surface water quality and
quantity and the effects on the environment.
6.          Preparation of integrated plans for protection of raw water
quality.



Annex 14. 1
Page 5 of 8
T4bje A: Sumnary of Environmental Impacts of Construction and Operation of
Surface Water Treatment Plant and Associated Works
Components                           Positive Impact                                       Negative Impact
(A) Sarulia Intake,     Road access to replace footpath to M.A. Satter School,    Loss of small areas of foul ponds and of fish/washing
pump site and        local settlement and river foreshore.                ponds.
culven to DND
Canal.              No housing land acquisition needed.                   Need to provide alternative system for 3 house drain
outfalls.
Loss of small foreshore area.
Short-term disruption from construction activities.
(B) DND Canal
(i) Fencing         Protection of water quality for both the SWTP         Social impacts:
beneficiaries and users of DND Canal water.
-  Removal of about 180 shacks.
Assistance with security of fish stocks.             -  Removal of 93 washing points (65 pucca, 37
katcha).
Upgrading of pedestrian and vehicle crossings.       -  Closure of unauthorized water offtakes.
Prevention of unauthorized water abstractions.       Canal maintenance (removal of sludge and weed)
slightly more difficult.
Fence and canal maintenance and security costs.
Minor inconvenience during construction.
(ii) Canal           Improved water flow and water quality; constant level.    Deposition of river sediments; cleaning every 5 to 10
upgrading and                                                         years.
operation       Regular canal maintenance.
(iii) Replacement   Improved pedestrian and vehicular access from Area I  Increased incentive for urbanization in Area I:
of river        to Dhaka-Demra-Narayanganj Road.                      deteriorating drainage/irrigation systems.
crossing
Clv) Cut-off drain  Pollution from road prevented form entering canal.
along road
(v) Land            Land belongs to BWDB; agreement signed for DWASA
acquisition     management.
(vi) Cross dam      Prevention of pollution form southern portion of canal.    Penstock opening will allow pollution to pass from
southern portion of canal.
Cessation of water flow in southern section of canal:
increased pollution risk.
(C) Culvert from DND    No additional land acquisition.                       Short-term disruption in Kajla during construction.
Canal to Saidabad
No relocation of existing structures needed.
(D) Saidabad SWIP       No land acquisition needed; no relocation of          Minor compensation for part loss of fish ponds.
and access road     compensation for present housing.
construction                                                              Short-term disruption form construction activities:
Infill of septic ponds along access road.
(i)  Significant short-term noise and dust produced by
transportation of machinery and materials
(especially infill) to site, and construction activities
for SWTP and access road.
(ii) Increased congestion from construction traffic on
local roads and Saidabad.
Ciii) Loss of cultivation activities by DWASA staff at
SWTP site.



Annex 14. 1
Page 6 of 8
Components                              Positive Impact                                         Negative Impact
(E) Saidabad SWTP         Production of treated water for large numbers of        Minor increase in local road traffic (chemical supply
Operation            consumers in Dhaka.                                      etc.).
Disposal of sludge.
Occasional noise of stand-by generator and (Stage 11
onwards) noise of mechanical de-watering machinery.
Possible spills/discharges of chemicals (notably
chlorine) and oils (e.g., stand-by generator and
transformer oil).
Possibility of other accidents during routine operation
and maintenance (e.g., drowning, electrocution).
(F) Water Distribution    Distribution of treated water to water-short areas of   Short-term disruption while mains are installed along
System               Dhaka City.                                              city streets: noise, dust and increased traffic
congestion.
Increased flow in sewers may reduce septic condition
and H,S generation.                                     Increased volumes of waste water needing disposal;
reduced septic conditions in sewers may allow growth
Higher pressures will help to reduce contamination.     of pathogenic organisms.



Table B: Summary of Mitigation Proposals for Main Negative Impacts of
Construction and Operation of Surface Water Treatment Plant and Associated Works
Site and Impact                                        Proposed Mitigation                             Possible Alternative to Avoid/Reduce Impact
(A) Sarulia Intake, pump site and culvert to DND Canal
(i)  Loss of fish pond area                       Compensation.          I
(ii)  Construction noise, dust and traffic        Contractor to minimize by appropriate work program.
(B) DND Canal
(i)  Removal of shacks                            Combination of relocation and compensation.                 Pipeline transmission of water to Saidabad: too costly.
(ii)  Removal of washing points                   Provision of alternative pump-fed washing areas, with suitable
drainage measures.                                         Leave on canal: raw water contamination.
(iii) Closure of unauthorized water offtakes                                                                  Leave on canal: reduced water volumes; demands from other
users.
(iv) Pollution from, and in, canal south of check
dam
(v)  Extra wastewater in Area I                   Control volume by use of existing BWDB Katchpur pumps.      Controlled land development: encroachment too rapid for
In long-term, new facilities when DWASA takes over area.   Rajuk/DCC to control.
(vi) Sediment deposits and weed growth            Regular de-silting and weed clearance.                      Dewatering basins at Saidabad: extra construction cost -
desilting still needed.
(C) Treatment and access road construction
Ci)  Removal of shacks along access road          Relocation on adjacent empty ground and compensation.       Alternative access road: too costly.
(ii)  Construction noise and dust                 Contractor to minimize by appropriate working methods.
(iii) Traffic congestion during construction      Contractor to restrict main trips on roads to off-peak periods.
Alternative access: too costly.
(D) Treatment Plant Operation
(D 
(i)  Increased road traffic                       No special measures                                                                                                         _
0  -
Cii)  Sludge disposal                             Dewatering and use in sanitary landfill                     Disposal to Khal: environmentally unacceptable.                O-h 4-
(iii) Noise                                       Containment of machinery in buildings; muffling of stand-by
geneator



Site and Impact                                            Proposed Mitigation                                 Possible Alternative to Avoid/Reduce Impact
(iv)  Chemical spills and discharges                  Safe transport, handling and storage procedures. Concrete
pads and containment barriers for storage tanks, to limit liquid
and solid spills. Ventilators to disperse chlorine. Standard
health and safety procedures during operation.
(E) Water Distribution System
(i)  Increased waste watcr volumes                    Review and improvement of sewerage and sanitation
provisions in Dhaka under DWASA IV studies and TA
(ii)  Increased traffic congestion and social         Routes selected to minimize difficulties; contractor to adopt   Alternative routes: increased costs, similar problems.
disruption duiring construction                  appropriate working practices.
rD
coN
O H~



Annex 15.1
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Acqua Consultants.  Consumer Survey 1992-93, Final Report.  December
1993.
2.    ADB.  Managing Water Resources to meet Mega City needs.  A case study
for Dhaka City.
3.    Acqua Consultants.  Consumer Survey 1992-93.  List of Non-DWASA Deep
tubewells.
4.    Bangladesh Project Management Institute.  DWASA Productivity Study.
1991.
5.    BCEOM Consultants.  Environmental Impact Assessment of the Fourth DWASA
Project. April 1994.
6.    BCEOM Consultants.  Feasibility Study of the Fourth DWASA Project (3
volumes). May 1992.
7.    BCEOM Consultants.  Distribution System Analysis, May 1994.
8.    CDM & EPC.  Saidabad Site Feasibility Study.  February 1992.
9.    CDM, MMD, EPC.  Water Treatment Plant at Demra and Other Works.  1990.
10.   DWASA, BCEOM & EPC.  Proceedings on Seminar on Water Supply for Dhaka
and Saidabad Water Treatment Plant. July 7, 1994.
11.   Fierro, Marco.  Economic Analysis, September 1994.
12.   EPC, MMD, CDM.  Dhaka Region Groundwater and Subsidence Study.  May
1991.
13.   GKW Consultant.  Leak Detection and Waste Prevention Program, 1992 (2
volumes).
14.   Government of Bangladesh.  Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance 1963 and
Amendments.
15.   S.F. Ahmed & Co.  Final Report on Verification of Consumer Survey 1992-
93. December 1993.
16.   Solomon & Chidley.  Analysis of Lakhya River Water/Benthos Samples at
Proposed Demra Water Treatment Plant Site. May 1986.
17.   UNICEF.  The Status of Water and Sanitation Access in Urban Slums and
Fringes in Bangladesh, Volume 1, Situation Analysis.



Annex 15.1
Page 2 of 2
18.   Assessment of Proposed Program for a Surface Water Supply Source for the
City of Dhaka. August 1986.
19.   Deep Aquifer Exploration Project, Bengal Basin, Bangladesh.
20.   Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority Management Information
Reports.
21.   Van der Eb, Tariff Study for DWASA.  December 1994.






IBRD 27130
BANGLADESH
FOURTH DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECTr
PROJEc1
P POPOEDOW DilUulitNd SYSTEM
SAXOAAADWATERTREATMENTIPANT|                                                        v) )
MTAON AM RG%K, STATION
,EXSWTNG FACUlTIES:
-   RIARY TISMIK)TION UTIES
-   PM SEWERAGE URNS
WHATED.UR   SHA E3 B
,-IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
INDIA {Dhok? - '            KILOfMErERS       
Ai;- wI < E=,A(GNE\;Ao.
.:AZF    ,r   ......   El   \DV  20'  1  l  -  ~5Xg ...................................... ) = \ W \\
I    v    t95   X   \  \ b * S r.t / R 1t~~~~a









IMAGING
Report No:       16144 BD
Type: SAR



