Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2926 BD 
Project Agreement
(Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Dated January 8, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2926 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (DWASA).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifty-one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 51,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that DWASA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement;
      (B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and DWASA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to DWASA on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS DWASA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
      Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01.  (a)  DWASA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility  practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and DWASA shall otherwise agree, DWASA shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
      Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03.  (a)  DWASA  shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
DWASA shall: (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and DWASA, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; (ii) afford the Association a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with DWASA on said plan; and (iii) thereafter, carry out 
said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
practices, taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 2.04.  DWASA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the Performance Agreement. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, DWASA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
the Performance Agreement, or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05.  (a)  DWASA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the 
Performance Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)
DWASA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by DWASA of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Performance 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DWASA
      Section 3.01.  DWASA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. DWASA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
      Section 3.03.  DWASA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a)  DWASA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
      (b)
DWASA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02.  (a)  This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
DWASA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
      (b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify DWASA of this event.
      Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
Page  4
           Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      For DWASA:
           Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
           98 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue
           WASA Bhaban
           Kawran Bazar
           Dhaka, Bangladesh
      Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DWASA, may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the 
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and DWASA shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
               DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
               By /s/ K.M. Shehabuddin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  5
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)
Prequalification
 
      Bidders for major civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
      National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $7,300,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and small items of equipment estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting  firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
Page  6
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    DWASA shall appoint by March 31, 1997, Deputy Managing Directors for its Finance 
and Administration, Technical, and Planning and Development Departments.
2.    DWASA shall promptly carry out a staff rationalization program, satisfactory to 
the Association, to assess staff strengths and weaknesses, and reassign staff to areas 
with shortages.
3.    DWASA shall:
      (a)
promptly carry out the strategy study under Part D.5 of the Project;
 
      (b)
by August 31, 1997 furnish the Association with the findings and 
recommendations of such study; and
      (c)
by February 28, 1998, commence the implementation of such recommendations 
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon. 
4.    DWASA shall:
      (a)
by March 31, 1997, establish and thereafter operate an environmental cell 
within DWASA to monitor water quality and advise on environmental issues; and
      (b)
by January 31, 1998, commence implementation of the results of the water 
resources management study carried out under Part D.1 of the Project.
5.    DWASA shall:
      (a)
by March 1, 1997 carry out an assessment and evaluation of all its stores 
and inventories; and
      (b)
by December 30, 1997 sell or otherwise dispose of all mis-matched, 
obsolete and slow-moving stocks.
6.    DWASA shall:
      (a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
ensure the monitoring and evaluation, in accordance with guidelines and on the basis 
of performance indicators agreed with the Association, of the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)
prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, by December 31, 1998, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the 
period following such date; and
      (c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 1999, or such other date as may 
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the said report and, thereafter, 
take or cause to be taken all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
