Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2926 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 8, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2926 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1997, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of France (France) a 
grant in an amount of one hundred sixty million five hundred thirty thousand French 
Francs (FF 160,530,000) (the French Grant) to assist in financing the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the French Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and France;
      (C)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Japan (Japan) a grant 
(the Japanese Grant) in an amount of one hundred five million yen ((105,000,000) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Japan;
      (D)  the Project will be carried out by Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage 
Authority (hereinafter called DWASA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to DWASA the proceeds of the Credit 
as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and DWASA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
      (c)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, 
the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. 
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and DWASA 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and DWASA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)  "Performance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DWASA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Performance 
Page  3
Agreement;
      (d)  "DWASA" means the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority established and 
operating under the Borrower's Water Supply and Sewerage Authority Ordinance, 1963 (EP 
Ordinance No. XIX of 1963), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
      (f)  "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. Order No. 127 of 1972);
      (g)  "FY" means the Borrower's and DWASA's fiscal year commencing July 1 and 
ending June 30 of each year; and
      (h)  "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
51,000,000).
      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
      Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2007 and ending July 15, 2036.  Each 
Page  4
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)  Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
      (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
      (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause DWASA to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of DWASA therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable DWASA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
      (b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to DWASA under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DWASA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall 
include the following principal terms: (i) DWASA shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the rate 
of 7.5% per annum; (ii) a repayment period of 25 years including a grace period of 5 
years; and (iii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by DWASA shall 
be the equivalent in Taka of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, such equivalency to be determined as of the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account.
      (c)  The Borrower shall enter into a Performance Agreement with DWASA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall 
include, inter alia: (i) on the part of DWASA, commitments by DWASA to achieve agreed 
levels of financial performance and cost recovery, adjust tariffs, reduce accounts 
receivable to agreed levels, identify arrears and write off uncollectible arrears; and 
(ii) on the part of the Borrower, commitments to take all necessary action (including 
the enactment of legislation), to enable DWASA to perform all its obligations under 
the Performance Agreement.
      (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
Page  5
and the Performance Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Performance Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by DWASA 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)  DWASA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Performance Agreement.
      (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that DWASA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Page  6
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Performance Agreement.
      (c)  The Borrower's Water Supply and Sewerage Authority Ordinance, 1963 (EP 
Ordinance No. XIX, of 1963), shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of DWASA to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of DWASA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
      (e)   (i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
    (ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
      (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the  Association to the Borrower;
      (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)  the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Performance Agreement have been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and DWASA;
      (b)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the French Grant Agreement 
and the Japanese Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of 
this Agreement; and
      (c)  the following contracts, satisfactory to the Association, have been 
executed and delivered by the Borrower: 
           (i)
the contract for the twinning program under Part D.2 of the 
Project;
          (ii)
the contract for the sanitation study under Part D.4 of the 
Project; and
         (iii)
the contract for the strategy study under Part D.5 of the Project.
 
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by DWASA, 
and is legally binding upon DWASA in accordance with its terms;
Page  7
      (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Performance Agreement have been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DWASA and are legally binding upon the 
Borrower and DWASA in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04.  The provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01.  The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the 
Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
      Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
           Economic Relations Division
           Ministry of Finance
           Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
           Dhaka, Bangladesh
           Cable address:           Telex:
               BAHIRSAMPAD          642226 SETU BJ
               Dhaka                672796 SETV BJ
      For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS              197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.     248423 (RCA),
                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                     82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
               By /s/ K.M. Shehabuddin
Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
               By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in           Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works              32,120,000          100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  95% of local
                                                  expenditures
(2)  Goods                     1,280,000          100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 65%
                                                  of local ex-
                                                  penditures for
                                                  other items pro-
                                                  cured locally
(3)  Consultants'              7,370,000          100%
     services
(4)  Training                    510,000          100%
(5)  Unallocated               9,720,000
          TOTAL               51,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
1,270,000, may be made in respect of Categories 2 and 3 on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding 
the equivalent of $300,000 for works, $200,000 for goods, $100,000 for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 for employment of individual consultants, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to launch a program of institutional and 
policy reforms that would lead to efficient operation of the water and sanitation 
services in Dhaka on a commercial basis; (ii) to increase the life of existing assets 
Page  9
and reduce water losses through a rehabilitation program; (iii) to strengthen water 
resources management for the greater Dhaka area by optimizing the use of available 
water resources in the most economic and environmentally acceptable way; and (iv) to 
increase potable water supply in the Dhaka area by effectively utilizing available 
surface and groundwater resources to expand supply.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Treatment Plant and Works
1.    Construction of an intake structure and raw water pumping station at Lakhya, and 
twin culverts to carry water from the Lakhya River to the Dhaka-Narayangani-Demra 
(DND) Canal.
2.    Rehabilitation of the DND Canal, and construction of a culvert from the DND 
Canal to the treatment plant site.
3.    Construction of a 50 IMGD treatment plant, including supply and installation of 
electro-mechanical equipment, and ancillary structures.
Part B:   Distribution System Expansion and Rehabilitation
1.    Construction of about 20 km of transmission and primary mains, and about 18.5 km 
of secondary mains.
2.    System rehabilitation and provision of new service connections in the DWASA 
service area, including a crash meter installation program. 
3.    Regeneration or rehabilitation of DWASA's existing tubewells.
Part C:   Sewerage and Sanitation
      Rehabilitation of selected priority sections of DWASA's sewerage and sanitation 
system.
Part D:   Institutional Development
      The carrying out of:
1.    A water resources management study in the Dhaka area to obtain adequate 
knowledge of water resources.
2.    A management and operational support (twinning) program to improve operations, 
maintenance and financial management.
3.    A program to contract out DWASA services like billing, collections, and meter 
testing and repairs to the private sector.
4.    A study for improved sanitation (with emphasis on low-cost sanitation), 
including preparation of a master plan, for the Dhaka area.
5.    A strategy study to review private sector options and recommend the most 
appropriate option for DWASA.
6.    Training for DWASA staff; and provision of appropriate financial incentives and 
management support for senior DWASA staff.
Part E:   Project Preparation and Implementation Support
1.    Provision of consultant services for project implementation, construction 
supervision and network distribution analysis.
2.    Provision of consultant services to assist in the carrying out of a revised 
tariff structure for DWASA.
3.    Provision of equipment and vehicles.
4.    Provision of 50,000 meters to improve DWASA's billing services. 
                        *         *         *
Page  10
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special  commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  11
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
if the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
