                       Document of
                    The World Bank


                                                 Report No:   66191 v1



                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                         ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                           OF

PCB MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL DEMONSTRATION GEF PROJECT

                   (GRANT TF056008)

            (BOARD DATE: DECEMBER 15, 2005)


                        TO THE

              PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA




                   DECEMBER 13, 2011
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

FECO   Foreign Economic Cooperation Office
GA     Grant Agreement
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GEO    Global Environment Objective
MEP    Ministry of Environmental Protection
PCB    Polychlorinated Biphenyl
TDU    Thermal Desorption Unit




          Regional Vice President:       Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
          Acting Country Director:       Ms. Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun, EACCFS
           Acting Sector Manager:        Mr. Paul Kriss, EASCS
               Task Team Leader:         Ms. Solvita Klapare, EASER

                                     2
                                CHINA
          PCB MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
                               P082993
                             CONTENTS


A. SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. 45
B. PROJECT STATUS ............................................................................................... 45
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ........................................................................................ 56
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING.................................. 78




                                                            3
     PCB MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT

                               RESTRUCTURING PAPER


SUMMARY
The proposed changes include: (a) modification of an intermediate results target; and (b)
a third extension of the Grant closing date from December 31, 2011 until December 31,
2012. These changes are necessary to account for initial project implementation delays
and changes in the actual circumstances identified during project implementation. In light
of recent progress achieved, these changes are proposed to allow the project to complete
its activities and meet its development objectives.


PROJECT STATUS
The project has experienced significant implementation delays due to: (i) the failure of
the first round procurement of the Thermal Desorption Unit (TDU – a large piece of
equipment that decontaminates soil); (ii) the loss of the selected site for the TDU due to
objections by local population and the corresponding delay in locating a suitable
alternative site; (iii) delays in issuing a license for handling PCB wastes and operating
TDU (a withdrawal condition for PCB clean-up and disposal of low-contaminated PCB
wastes); and (iv) delays in the refitting, test-burn and licensing of the national incinerator
facility at Shenyang (a withdrawal condition for disposal of highly contaminated PCB
wastes).

In June 2010, the Bank agreed to the Government’s request to extend the Grant closing
date for six months, until December 31, 2010 to give the Recipient time to develop a
detailed action plan to complete important project activities and meet key milestones.
(See Restructuring Paper, Report No. 58377 of June 28, 2010.) Due to good progress
towards achieving the agreed milestones, the Grant closing date was extended for
additional 12 months until December 31, 2011 (See Restructuring Paper, Report.
No.58720 of December 22, 2010).

Following the second extension, the project progressed towards clean-up of the PCB
contaminated sites and disposal of PCB waste. The most notable achievements include:

•   clean-up of first three PCB burial sites;
•   disposal of the first batch of highly-contaminated waste (about 100 mt) in the
    Shenyang incinerator with preliminary results showing full compliance with stringent
    environmental performance standards agreed in the Grant Agreement;
•   approval of the PCB clean-up plans and contracts for the next three PCB sites;
•   completion of the final list of the PCB sites in the Zhejiang Province;
•   preparation of five additional clean-up plans

In addition, the Thermal Desorption Unit (TDU) to treat low level PCB soil was
commissioned and underwent the proof of performance test. The test results however
                                              4
demonstrated that equipment does not meet the agreed in the TDU contract performance
standards, particularly in two parameters. Since November 2010, the TDU Supplier in
cooperation with the Recipient performed several rounds of equipment adjustments, trial
runs and repeated performance tests. As a result of these efforts, there are significant
improvements of the environmental performance standards. The final performance test is
yet to be performed, and it is expected that all standards will be fully met.

Due to inability of the TDU to start treatment of the PCB contaminated waste the number
of sites cleaned during FY2011 was lower than expected. Approval of the clean-up
plans also turned out to be more lengthy than expected due to lack of experience of PCB
clean-up using international standards by the local contractor.


PROPOSED CHANGES
Results/indicators. Component 4, target values for intermediate results indicators
“Incinerator operational records confirm Zhejiang Province’s approx 2,000 PCB-
containing capacitors disposed of in an environmentally sound way?, “Incinerator
operational records confirm Zhejiang Province’s approx 100 tons of PCB oil disposed of
in an environmentally sound way? and “Incinerator operational records confirm Zhejiang
Province’s approx 13,000 tons of PCB contaminated soils disposed of in an
environmentally-sound way? proposed to be revised as reflected in Annex 1.

The change is needed to reflect the actual number of PCB contaminated sites identified in
Zhejiang Province. After a detailed analysis of the 56 sites estimated at the project
preparation that included on-site investigations, soil sampling, and interviews with staff
at the various power stations where PCB capacitors were originally dismantled and
buried, it has been concluded in 2010 that 32 sites require clean-up. The status of these 32
sites has been further evaluated in detail during the past year. It was found that the PCB
capacitors have already been removed from some sites and those sites showed no sign of
PCB contamination. Other sites could not be located as the use of the land has changed.
Finally a few sites are located under buildings and roads. While the investigation showed
that that PCB is not leaking from them, they will be monitored and action only taken if
sign of leakage of PCB is identified.

Given the decrease in number of actual sites requiring clean-up and based on early
experiences from clean-up of the first sites, a reasonable target is 1,200 tons of PCB
containing capacitor and highly contaminated PCB waste (compared to 2,000 PCB
containing capacitors estimated in December 2010) for 20 identified sites; and 10,000 t of
PCB-contaminated soil (compared to 13,000 t). The target related to disposal of PCB oil
is incorporated in the PCB containing capacitor and highly contaminated PCB waste
indicator, as based on experience from the first site clean-ups the PCB oil has leaked and
mixed with the soil, therefore it is impossible to assess the exact amount of the PCB oil.

None of these changes affect the PDO, or PDO indicators, which remain relevant and
achievable, if the Grant closing date is extended.


                                             5
Extension of closing date
The closing date of the Grant will be extended for the third time from December 31, 2011
until December 31, 2012. If approved, this would represent a cumulative extension of 30
months from the original closing date.

As noted in the background section above, the project experienced a number of start-up
problems. All of these issues have now been addressed, including fulfillment of the two
withdrawal conditions.

The implementation plan for the proposed extension period demonstrates that 12-month
extension is necessary to complete clean-up of the identified PCB-sites in Zhejiang
Province, complete site monitoring; complete final performance test of the TDU, treat
low level PCB contaminated soils; and dispose highly contaminated PCB waste in the
Shenyang’s incinerator; as well as complete design of the National Replication Strategy.
With this extension, it is expected that the project would be able to complete all it
activities and achieve the development objectives.




                                            6
                                                                   ANNEX 1:
                                                       Results Framework and Monitoring
                                 CHINA: PCB MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT


Project Development Objective (PDO):

The development objective of the project is to identify and demonstrate environmentally-sound and cost-effective policies, procedures and techniques for safely
managing and disposing of China’s unique temporarily stored PCBs and associated PCB-contaminated wastes.

Revised Project Development Objective:


N/A
                                        D=Dropped
                                                                                         Cumulative Target Values
                                 Core




                                        C=Continue     Unit of                                                                                      Data Source/      Responsibility for
                                        N= New
                                                                 Baseline                                                          Frequency
                                                       Measure               YR1    YR2     YR3    YR4    YR5    YR6     YR7                        Methodology        Data Collection
                                        R=Revised
                                                                             INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component Four):
All highly-contaminated PCB wastes recovered from Zhejiang Province safely disposed of in an completed rotary kiln incinerator in Shenyang

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Four):
N/A

Intermediate Result indicator                                                                                                                                         Local PIU
One: Shenyang rotary kiln                                                                                                                                             Consultants:
incinerator completed to                                                                                                                           Database will be
                                                                                                                                                                      review
Stockholm Convention                         C           %         0         0      20      50     90     100     100    100    Every six months   established as
standards for PCB disposal and                                                                                                                                        CIO/MEP:
                                                                                                                                                   part of the MIS
staff trained in disposal.                                                                                                                                            coordination and
                                                                                                                                                                      review
Intermediate Result indicator                 R
                                                                                                                         100                       Database will be   Local PIU
Two: Incinerator operational             (target and     %         0         0       0      0       0      0        8           Every six months
records confirm Zhejiang                  timeline)                                                                                                established as     Consultants:
                                                                                                                                                   part of the MIS    review
Province’s approx 1,200 t of                                                                                part of the MIS    review
PCB-containing capacitors and                                                                                                  CIO/MEP:
highly contaminated PCB
                                                                                                                               coordination and
waste disposed of in an
environmentally sound way.                                                                                                     review
Intermediate Result indicator
Three: Incinerator operational
records confirm Zhejiang
                                     D         %
Province’s approx 100 tons of
PCB oil disposed of in an
environmentally sound way.
Intermediate Result indicator                                                                                                  Local PIU
Four: Incinerator operational                                                                                                  Consultants:
records confirm Zhejiang              R                                                                     Database will be
                                                                                                                               review
Province’s approx 10,000 tons    (target and   %   0   0       0   0   0   0   7   100   Every six months   established as
of PCB-contaminated soils         timeline)                                                                                    CIO/MEP:
                                                                                                            part of the MIS
disposed of in an                                                                                                              coordination and
environmentally-sound way.                                                                                                     review




                                                           8
9
