Page  1
March 27, 2000
Mr. Zhu Guangyao
Director-General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
San Li He
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Re:
China: Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substances
 
Phase Out Project, OTF Grant Number TF 022002
Extension of Closing Date and Amendment 
to Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement
Dear Mr. Zhu:
We refer to the Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the 
above-captioned project dated June 29, 1995, ("Grant Agreement") between: (1) the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("Bank"), acting as trustee 
("Trustee") of grant funds provided by parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances 
that Deplete the Ozone Layer ("Montreal Protocol") to the Vienna Convention for the 
Protection of the Ozone Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund; and (2) the People’s 
Republic of China ("Recipient").
We refer to Mr. Wu’s letter dated November 3, 1999, requesting an extension of 
the Closing Date and an increase in the OTF Grant amount.  We are pleased to inform 
you that the Trustee agrees with the Closing Date extension request and has 
established December 31, 2010, as the later date for purposes of Section 2.03 of the 
Grant Agreement.  We are also pleased to inform you that the Trustee agrees to make 
available to the Recipient an additional grant amount equal to thirty million dollars 
($30,000,000): (1) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Agreement and as 
amended below; and (2) provided that the Trustee receives the additional funds from 
the Executive Committee referred to in Whereas Clause (C) of the Preamble to the Grant 
Agreement.  Accordingly, the Grant Agreement is hereby amended as set forth below
1.
Section 2.01. is amended to read as follows:
"Subject to the provisions of Section 2.04, the Trustee agrees to make available 
to the Recipient, on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, the OTF Grant in an amount not exceeding one hundred twenty million 
and one hundred thousand dollars ($120,100,000)."
1.
Paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is amended to read as shown in 
Attachment A to this letter.
1.
The first paragraph of Section I, Part A of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
"Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof and paragraph 2 of this Part A, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with 
those set forth in Sections I and II of the ‘Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits’ published by the Bank in May 1992 ("the Guidelines")
and in 
accordance with the following additional procedures:
1.
. . . . [paragraph remains unchanged].
(b) . . . . [paragraph remains unchanged].
1.
Section I, Part A of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is amended by inserting a 
new paragraph 2 at the end of Part A to read as follows: 
"2.
Goods for a Subproject shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the Guidelines, as 
amended from time to time and applicable at the time of approval of such 
Subproject."
Page  2
1.
Section II, paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is amended to read 
as follows: 
"Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of the Project, the 
Recipient shall employ and cause NEPA, CIB, the Financial Institutions and the 
Subproject Beneficiaries to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee.  Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultants’ Guidelines"), provided that consultants for a 
Subproject shall be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the Consultants’ Guidelines, as amended 
from time to time and applicable at the time of approval of such Subproject. For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard forms of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall 
use other standard forms agreed with the Trustee."
Except as specifically amended in this letter, all other terms and provisions of 
the Grant Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The above amendments shall 
become effective as of the date of receipt by the Trustee of this original letter 
signed on behalf of the Recipient.
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing amendments by 
countersigning and dating the confirmation set forth below, and returning one fully 
signed original to us for our files.  One fully signed original should be retained by 
the Recipient.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Wu Gang
Authorized Representative 
Deputy Director-General, MOF, PRC
Date:
March 30, 2000
Attachment A
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
OTF Grant Allocated 
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars Equivalent) to be Financed
Page  3
(1)
Subprojects under Part A of
116,400,000
of the Project:
(a)
Goods
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 
75% of local 
expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(b)
Consultants’ services 
100%
and training
(2)
Part B.1 and B.2 of
   100,000
Project:
(a)
Goods
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 
75% of local 
expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(b)
Consultants’ services
100%
and training
(3)
Agency Fee and charges
 3,600,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
TOTAL
     120,100,000
