Page  1
May 27, 1999
Mr. Jun Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Re:
CHINA: Advance for Preparation of the Third Montreal Protocol
Ozone Depleting Substances Phaseout Project
OTF-Project Preparation Advance IX - OTF-PPA No. TF022452
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (the Trustee), to 
indicate the Trustee's agreement to grant to the People's Republic of China (the 
Recipient) an Advance in an amount not exceeding one hundred forty thousand dollars 
(US$140,000) (the Advance). The purpose of the Advance is to finance certain 
expenditures for the following activities:
(a)
carrying out of a survey an the pharmaceutical aerosol sector to be used 
as the basis for the formulation of a sector strategy; conduct of a workshop on the 
formulation of such strategy; conduct of a technology workshop on the CFC phaseout in 
the pharmaceutical aerosol sector;
(b)
preparation of a mobile air conditioning project (MAC project); 
preparation of a technical assistance project to promote technical inspection and 
monitoring, revise standards and codes, and collect information; workshop on policies 
and conversion technologies; preparation of implementation manual for the MAC project;
(c)
preparation of three commercial refrigeration projects;
(d)
 conduct of a workshop on CFC phaseout in the PU foam sector; preparation 
of twenty five individual projects to collect data and assess the adaptability of 
available conversion technologies; preparation of foam sector approach; and
(e)
preparation of a workshop on safety
The Recipient has requested the financial assistance of the Ozone Projects Trust 
Fund for this purpose.
The Advance is granted for the purpose described, and on the terms and 
conditions set forth in Attachments 1-111 hereto. The Advance would be managed on 
behalf of the Recipient by its State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) in its 
role as head of the Leading Group for Ozone Layer Protection in China. The recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement hereunder, that the Recipient is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Advance for the said
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
The grant of the Advance does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part 
of the Trustee, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in its own 
capacity or the International Development Association, to assist in financing the 
project for the preparation of which the Advance is granted.
The Government of the People's Republic of China hereby acknowledges that the 
Advance is not subject to any taxes.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the People's 
Republic of China, by countersigning, dating the two original copies of this Letter of 
Agreement and returning to us one original, as countersigned. This Letter of Agreement 
will become effective as of the date of countersignature.
Sincerely yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Dated: June 3, 1999
Attachments.
ATTACHMENT I
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of Advance
1.
The objective of the Advance is to finance activities (the Activities) required 
to complete the preparation of Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) phaseout projects and 
phaseout strategies, The activities are as follows:
Based on a work program agreed between the Recipient's State Environmental 
Protection Agency (SEPA) and the Trustee, assistance will be provided to SEPA for:
(a)
carrying out of a survey on the pharmaceutical aerosol sector to be used 
as the basis for the formulation of a sector strategy; conduct of a workshop on the 
formulation of such strategy; conduct of a technology workshop on the CFC phaseout in 
the pharmaceutical aerosol sector;
(b)
preparation of a mobile air conditioning project (MAC project); 
preparation of a technical assistance project to promote technical inspection and 
monitoring, revise standards and codes, and collect information; workshop on policies 
and conversion technologies; preparation of implementation manual for the MAC project;
(c)
preparation of three commercial refrigeration projects;
(d)
 conduct of a workshop on CFC phaseout in the PU foam sector; preparation 
of twenty five individual projects to  collect data and assess the adaptability of 
available conversion technologies; preparation of foam sector approach; and
(e)
preparation of a workshop on safety
2.
Expenditures to be financed with the Advance are:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
Category
   Allocated 
Expenditures to
(expressed in US
be Financed
Dollars)
(1)
Consultants' services
95,700
100%
(2)
Workshops
44,300
100%
TOTAL
140,000
Notwithstanding the above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of countersignature of this Letter Agreement, 
Page  3
except for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1997 in an amount not exceeding 
$65,000.
3.
The Recipient shall carry out the Activities through SEPA with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformance with appropriate administrative. environmental and 
financial practices; (,promptly provide the funds, facilities, services, and other 
resources required for the purpose; furnish to the Trustee all information on the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Advance as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request; and from time to time exchange views with the trustee's representatives on 
the progress and results of such activities.
4.
TO assist SEPA in carrying out the Activities, SEPA shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee and on the basis of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
the World Bank" published by the Trustee in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999. No substitution of such consultant or modification of the terms and 
conditions of their employment shall be made except with the prior approval of the 
Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Advance to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than the equivalent of USS100,000; (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants costing less than the equivalent of USS50,000; 
and (c) workshops, all under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
6.
 Withdrawal, use, and refunding of the Advance shall be made in accordance with 
the Financial Provisions Applicable to Advances from the Ozone Projects Trust Fund for 
Project Preparation (the Financial Provisions) set forth in Attachment 11.
7.
For the purposes of this Letter of Agreement, the term "Trust Account" means the 
account opened by the Trustee on its books in the name of the Recipient to which the 
amount of the Advance is credited.
8. 
To facilitate carrying out the Activities, the Recipient may open an account 
(the Special Account) in US dollars in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Trustee. Deposits into, and Payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment III. The Trustee so selected shall 
confirm in a form acceptable to the Trustee that the funds in the Special Account will 
be segregated as a special deposit for the specific purposes for which the Advance is 
made and that the funds are not subject to claims of set-off, seizure, or attachment.
9.
 The date three years from the date on which the Trustee signs this letter of 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph 9 of the Financial 
Provisions (Attachment II). No withdrawals of the Advance shall be made after that 
data, and any amount of the Advance then remaining unwithdrawn shall be canceled, 
unless the Trustee establishes a later date for the purposes of paragraph 9
10.
Withdrawal applications from the Trust Account for the Advance funds shall be 
signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or any person designated 
in writing by the Minister. Authenticated specimen signatures of the designated 
persons shall be provided with the first application
ATTACHMENT II
Financial Provisions Applicable to Advances from the
Ozone Projects Trust Fund for Project Preparations
1.
On receipt of a written application for withdrawal from the Trust Account in the 
form specified by the Trustee, the Trustee shall disburse to, or on the order of, the 
Recipient funds from the Advance to meet. expenditures specified in paragraph 2 of 
Attachment I to the Letter of Agreement (eligible expenditures). Each application for 
withdrawal shall be:
(a)
signed by an authorized representative of Recipient; and
(b)
accompanied by evidence of expenditures made or, if Trustee shall so 
agree, to be made.
2.
The Advance shall be made in U.S. dollars. The amounts of the Advance shall be 
Page  4
disbursed in various currencies equivalent to the amount required to meet an eligible 
expenditure to be financed by the Advance.
3.
Withdrawals shall be made only for expenditures for services supplied front, or 
goods produced in, countries eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999.
The amount of the Advance disbursed carries no interest or other charges and is made 
available on a non-reimbursable basis.
5.
The Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend at any time further 
withdrawals of the Advance if:
(a)
funds withdrawn have not been used for the purpose agreed between the 
Recipient and the Trustee; or
(b)
the Activities are not carried out in accordance with the standards or 
methods agreed between the Recipient and the Trustee.
6. 
At any time after withdrawals of the Advance have been suspended pursuant to 
these provisions, the Trustee may. by notice to the Recipient, cancel any amount of 
the Advance remaining unwithdrawn.
7. 
If the funds withdrawn have not been used for the purpose agreed between the 
Recipient and the Trustee, then upon suspension as provided in paragraph 5 above, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon written notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee 
an amount equal to the amount so used or any portion thereof specified by the Trustee,
8. 
The Trustee may cancel the Advance in full by written notice to the Recipient 
if, within 180 days after the date of the countersignature of the Trustee's letter 
making the Advance the Recipient has not, in the opinion of the Trustee, started any 
of the Activities for which the Advance was made. 
9. 
As specified in paragraph 8 of Attachment I to this Letter of Agreement, no 
application for withdrawals will be accepted by the Trustee three years from the date 
on which the Trustee signs this Letter of Agreement. The unwithdrawn amount of the 
Advance wilt then be canceled by the Trustee.
10.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the expenditures 
financed by the Advance;
(b)
 have such .records and accounts (including those for the Special 
Account) for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by' independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee; 
and
(c)
 furnish to the Trustee, not later than six months after the end of each 
fiscal year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, or such 
detail as Trustee shall have reasonably requested.
ATTACHMENT III
Special Deposit Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
 the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost ref services required for the Activities to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Advance;
(b) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to USS70,000 
to be withdrawn from the Advance and deposited in the Special Deposit Account (the 
Special Account) pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment; and
(c)
the term "categories" means categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Advance as set forth in Paragraph 2 of Attachment 1.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  5
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3. 
After the Trustee has received satisfactory evidence that the Special Account 
has been duly opened. withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows-
(a)
 For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits that do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, deposit in the Special 
Account such amount out of the proceeds of the Advance as the Recipient requests.
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account. die Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Trustee shall specify. Prior to or at die time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient. deposit into the Special Account out of the proceeds of the 
Advance such amount as is requested by the Recipient and shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall (at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request) furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
 if at any time the Trustee determines that all further withdrawals of 
the Advance should be made by the Recipient directly from the Trust Account in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Attachment 11; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Advance equals the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter. withdrawal of the Advance proceeds remaining unwithdrawn shall follow such 
procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have 
been satisfied that all such amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice shall be used in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Trustee determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was:
(i)
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or
(ii)
riot justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee;
then the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, provide such 
additional evidence as the Trustee may request, or deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
 If the Trustee determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures. the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Attachment shall be credited to the Trust Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Letter of Agreement.
Page  6
