                          Document of
                        the World Bank




                                              Report No: ICR0000414




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (WBTF-22002)



                            ON A

       {GRANT FROM THE MONTREAL MULTILATERAL FUND}

              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 120.1 MILLION

                           TO THE

                 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                            FOR A

       OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE PHASE-OUT PROJECT III



                         June 26, 2009




CHINA AND MONGOLIA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT UNIT (EASCS)
East Asia and Pacific Region




                              1
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/2008)
                            Currency Unit= Chinese Yuan
                        Chinese Yuan 1.00= US$0.15
                                  US$1.00= Chinese Yuan 6.85


                                     Fiscal Year
                               January 1- December 31




ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CEB     China Everbright Bank
CFC     Chlorofluorocarbon, an ozone depleting substance
CIB     China Investment Bank
CIEC    China International Economic Consultants
CP      Country Program
EPB     Environmental Protection Bureau
ExCom   Executive Committee of the Montreal Protocol
FECO    Foreign Economic Cooperation Office, under SEPA
FA      Financial Agency
FY      Fiscal Year
GDO     Global Development Objective
GEO     Global Environment Objective
GWP     Global Warming Potential
HCFC    Hydrochlorofluorocarbons
IA      Implementing Agency
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report of a Bank project
IC&R    Industrial and Commercial Refrigeration Sector.
IOC     Incremental Operating Cost
LCD     Liquid carbon dioxide
MAC     Mobile Air-Conditioning
MCl     Methylene chloride
MEP     Ministry of Environmental Protection (established early 2008)
MLF     Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOD     Memorandum of the Director
MP      Montreal Protocol
MT      Metric Ton, a unit of measure equivalent to 1000 kilograms
NBF     Not Bank Financed
ODP     Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS     Ozone Depleting Substance

                                          2
OTF     Ozone Projects Trust Fund
PCR     Project Completion Report of subprojects
PMO     Project Management Office
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QSR     Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects
SEPA    State Environmental Protection Administration (formally National Environmental
        Protection Agency, and upgraded in early 2008 to the Ministry of Environmental
        Protection)
SOE     State-owned enterprise
UNDP    United National Development Program
UNEP    United National Environment Program
UNIDO   United National Industrial Development Organization
                          Vice President: James W. Adams
                        Country Director: David R. Dollar
                         Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                    Project Team Leader: Carter J. Brandon
                       ICR Team Leader: Carter J. Brandon




                                         3
                                                                China
                                       THIRD ODS PHASE OUT PROJECT


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

Implementation Completion and Results Report
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design.................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 6
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 7
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................................ 8
6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 9
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 10

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 12
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 13
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 14
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 15
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 17
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 18
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 19
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 21
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 24
Annex 10. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 25

Map




                                                                    4
Project Data Sheet

A. Basic Information  
                                                                         CN THIRD ODS
Country:                China                    Project Name:
                                                                         PHASE OUT

Project ID:             P003409                  L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-22002

ICR Date:               06/26/2009               ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:

Original Total
                        USD 90.1M                Disbursed Amount:       USD 88.5M
Commitment:

Environmental Category: B                        Global Focal Area: O

Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Environmental Protection (until early 2008, the State Environmental Protection
Administration, or SEPA), and the Financial Agents (China Investment Bank (CIB), China
Everbright Bank (CEB), and China International Economic Cooperation (CIEC))

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates  
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)

Concept Review:       05/26/1994      Effectiveness:            10/31/1995      10/31/1995

Appraisal:            10/25/1994      Restructuring(s):

Approval:             06/22/1995      Mid-term Review:

                                      Closing:                  06/30/2000      12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary  
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory

Risk to Global Environment Outcome               Low or Negligible

Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory



                                                 5
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                   Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:              Satisfactory       Government:                     Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing                    Moderately
Quality of Supervision:        Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:                Satisfactory
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                               Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                      (if any)

Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):

Problem Project at any                            Quality of         Moderately Unsatis-
                          No
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA): factory (in Nov. 2001)

GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status



D. Sector and Theme Codes  
                                                                Original               Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Banking                                                              2                      2

Central government administration                                     1                     1

Other industry                                                       97                   97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Environmental policies and institutions                              100                 100



E. Bank Staff  
        Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval

Vice President:           James W. Adams                       Jean-Michel Severino



                                              6
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                     Yukon Huang

Sector Manager:           Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez            Hoon Mok Chung

Project Team Leader:      Carter J. Brandon                   Helen Chan

ICR Team Leader:          Carter J. Brandon

                          Carter J. Brandon, Helen Chan,
ICR Primary Author:
                          Feng Ji



F. Results Framework Analysis  
Global Environment Objectives (GEO and Key Indicators(as approved)
The project objectives of this Montreal Protocol Project are to: (a) support China's total ODS
phase-out program by establishing an efficient and flexible institutional mechanism to prepare,
appraise, finance and implement a large number of subprojects; (b) implement cost-effective
priority subprojects; and (c) allow ODS phase-out to proceed at or ahead of schedule.

The project is designed as an umbrella project. The MOD reads "The proposed amount under
the umbrella agreement would be sufficient to cover subprojects up to the end of 1996. The
Project will support 60- to 80 subprojects in all ODS user and producer industries." In this
sense, ODS-III, was a "time-slice" operation in a series of projects, including ODS-1, ODS-II
and ODS-IV. The ODS-IV project was approved in November, 1997, and continued to finance
ODS phase-out in the same sectors as was covered by the earlier projects.

The global development objective of reversing the damage to the Ozone layer will only be met
as a result of all global actions taken from 1987 through 2010, and many of the required actions
were taken in the late 1980s in industrial countries. Even so, the complete reversal of ozone
layer damage will take sixty to seventy years to complete. China represents one of the largest
remaining ODS producers and consumers and is an important part of the remaining global
phase-out. There is every reason to expect the both China's and the global objective will be met.

Revised Global Environment Objectives and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

The GEO was not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
  Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1:
Value
(quantitative or See comment
Qualitative)


                                               7
Date achieved
                   Although ODS phase-out was the objective of the project, there were no GEO
                   indicator for ODS phase-out in tons. The "umbrella" or programmatic approach
Comments           followed by the project used only the intermediate indicator of a target number
                   of subprojects.
(incl. %
                   Nevertheless, ODS phase-out was closely tracked and reported (see Sections
achievement)
                   3.2 ­3.4): the project led to 38% of China's CFCs being eliminated, did so in a
                   cost-effective manner, and helped China meet its international commitments
                   ahead of schedule.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                               Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Number of ODS phase-out subprojects completed.
Value
(quantitative or                               60-80                           87
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/22/1995                                                       09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs 
                                                                                    Actual
           Date ISR
No.                                GEO                        IP                Disbursements
           Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1        06/30/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      69.87
  2        01/04/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      71.61
  3        05/14/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      73.88
  4        12/05/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      77.56
  5        05/22/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      79.19
  6        09/11/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      83.61
  7        02/21/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      88.41
  8        09/30/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      90.77


                                                   8
  9     06/09/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    93.47
 10     12/16/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    95.90
 11     05/22/2005           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    97.41
 12     05/23/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    97.88
 13     05/29/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    88.51
 14     06/28/2008           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    88.51



H. Restructuring (if any)  
While the project was not formally restructured, in May 2000, it was extended to 2010 to
coincide with the overall ODS phase-out date of the Montreal Protocol. Also, the grant ceiling
was increased by $30 million to a total of US$120.1 million. The revised closing date was
consistent with those of Montreal Protocol projects in other countries, and the expectation was
that an increased number of subprojects would be approved in the following few years. As it
turned out, with the opportunities provided by the more flexible ODS-IV project, the last ODS-
III disbursement was made in 2005. Some enterprises that might otherwise have been financed
under ODS-III, "migrated" to the ODS-IV project starting in 2002, which explains why the
ODS-III grant increase approved in 2000 was not utilized. The project closing date was moved
up to 2008 when discussions concerning the use of available funds concluded that all future
activities were to be better handled under the scope of the ODS-IV project. For details, see
Section 1.7.


I. Disbursement Profile 




                                              9
Main Text: Implementation Completion and Results Report

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
The ozone layer and ozone depletion. The ozone layer is a thin shield found approximately
twenty five miles above the earth's surface. This natural shield acts as a filter, screening out
most of the sun's harmful ultraviolet rays. Excessive exposure to UV radiation can lead to
severe skin cancer, cataracts, damage to materials like plastics, and harm to certain crops and
marine organisms. Higher levels of ultraviolet B rays (the most harmful) have been linked to
the suppression of immune systems in humans. Depletion of the ozone layer was discovered in
1972; yet despite the efforts to protect the ozone layer, it was found that the ozone was
"virtually gone" in the atmospheric layer in recent years. Worldwide, levels of UV radiation are
on average five to 10% higher than pre-1980 levels, and will remain that way for another
decade or more. Diagnoses of malignant melanoma, a deadly form of skin cancer, have doubled
in recent years, and it is among the fastest rising forms of cancer. Ozone depletion is due to the
presence in the upper atmosphere of a range of chemicals containing chlorine, bromine and
fluorine, and most importantly, a family of chemicals known as CFCs (Chlorofluorocarbons).
These chemicals are known collectively as ozone depleting substances (ODS).
The Montreal Protocol. The Montreal Protocol is an international environmental agreement to
stop production and consumption of ODS which destroy the ozone layer. It was agreed in 1989,
and it adopted an agreed ODS phase-out schedule as shown in Table 1. As a result of
accomplishments under the Montreal Protocol, atmospheric scientists recently announced that
the ozone layer is beginning to recover and would be back to pre-1980 levels by 2050. As of
February 2009, 194 countries have ratified the Montreal Protocol. China ratified the Montreal
Protocol on June 14, 1991 and has committed to the phase-out schedule.

 Table 1. Reduction and Phase-out Schedule of Production and Consumption * of Two Ozone
             Depleting Substances (CFCs and Halons) Addressed in this Project
                                Annex A, Group 1 (CFCs)            Annex A, Group 2 (Halons)
        Base level                Average of 1995-1997               Average of 1995-1997
        Freeze at base level           July 1, 1999                     January 1, 2002
        50% reduction                January 1, 2005                    January 1, 2005
        85% reduction                January 1, 2007
        100% reduction               January 1, 2010                     January 1, 2010
        *Consumption is defined by the Montreal Protocol = production+import-export

The World Bank as an Implementing Agency of the Montreal Protocol. The Parties to the
Montreal Protocol also agreed that financial assistance would be provided by developed
countries to developing countries to help them meet their phase-out obligations. As a
developing country, China is eligible for financial assistance from the Multilateral Fund (MLF).
The MLF and its Secretariat was set up in 1991, and has since provided over US$2 billion in
support of developing countries phase-out efforts. In 1991, The World Bank signed an
agreement with the MLF to become an Implementing Agency (IA), along with UNDP, UNEP
and UNIDO. The Bank's involvement is consistent with its commitment to support developing
countries in implementing international environmental agreements.



                                               10
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). Chloroflouorocarbons (CFCs), Carbontetrachloride
(CTC), Halon, and Methyl Bromide (MBr) are examples of ODS controlled by the Montreal
Protocol. ODS are measured by their Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP). ODS are used mainly,
as refrigerants in refrigeration equipment, blowing agents in the production of foam, propellants
in aerosol cans, fire extinguishing agents, and as process agents in many chemical production.
ODS products penetrate into all facets of daily life, including refrigerators, coolers, freezers,
cold storage and warehouses, mobile air conditioners (MAC), transportation vehicles and
railways, hair sprays, shaving cream, paint, fire extinguishers and systems, furniture,
construction materials, insulation materials, automobile parts, and others.

The global development objective of reversing the damage to the Ozone layer can only be met
as a result of all global actions taken from 1987 through 2010, and many of the required actions
were taken in the late 1980s in industrial countries. Even so, the complete reversal of ozone
layer damage will take sixty to seventy years to complete. China represents one of the largest
remaining ODS producers and consumers and is an important part of the remaining global
phase-out.

China as the world's largest producer and consumer of ODS. With rapid industrialization
and urbanization in the 1980s and 1990s, China's ODS consumption grew over 12% per annum
from 1986 to 1994. When production and consumption of ODS in developed countries were
eliminated at the end of 1995, China became the world's largest ODS consumer and producer.
By the end of 1996, China's ODS production had reached 85,500 metric tons and consumption
about 91,000 metric tons. In 1993, China prepared a Country Program (CP) with assistance
from UNDP. The CP was financed by the MLF and forms the basis of financial assistance from
the Montreal Protocol. This project was designed as an umbrella project to help China to
effectively phase-out its use of ODS in industrial production. This would be achieved through
(a) strengthening the project management office in the State Environmental Protection Agency
(SEPA)1 in program management and policy framework, and local financial agencies in project
management; and (b) providing financial and technical assistance to ODS users and producers.

The China-World Bank ODS program. The Bank approved four ODS phase-out projects for
China, all in the 1990s. The ODS I, II and III projects financed individual subprojects while the
ODS IV project financed sector plans. In response to the need of a fast start on China's ODS
phase-out program, the Bank approved the ODS I and ODS II projects in October 1993 and
May 1994 respectively, targeting 15 ODS user enterprises for a total of US$11.8 million in
grant financing to phase-out 14,000 ODP tons. The Bank team realized that another project like
ODS I and II would not be sufficient to meet the demands of China phasing out ODS in a
timely and efficient manner, and so the newly introduced umbrella grant agreement modality
for MP operations was adopted. The ODS III project was the first MP project to use this
modality ­ and it was subsequently used in all World Bank MP operations worldwide.

The umbrella grant approach meant that the total grant would be based on an estimated
amount of financing needs, but that only a subset of eligible sub-projects would be appraised
prior to Board approval. For ODS-III, the umbrella approach was further defined in the MOD
as: "The proposed amount under the umbrella agreement would be sufficient to cover
subprojects up to the end of 1996. The Project will support 60- to 80 subprojects in all ODS

1
 NEPA was upgraded to the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA) in early 1998, and became the
Ministry of Environmental Protection in early 2008. However, SEPA is used throughout this document to denote the
project counterpart, since virtually all project activities were during the SEPA period.


                                                      11
user and producer industries." In this sense, in addition to being an "umbrella" operation, ODS-
III was also a "time-slice" operation, designed to finance all eligible and prepared projects
through the end of 1996. It followed two earlier projects, ODS-1 and ODS-II, and was followed
by ODS-IV, approved in November, 1997.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project objectives of this Montreal Protocol Project are to: (a) support China's total ODS
phase-out program by establishing an efficient and flexible institutional mechanism to prepare,
appraise, finance and implement a large number of subprojects; (b) implement cost-effective
priority subprojects; and (c) allow ODS phase-out to proceed at or ahead of schedule.

As mentioned, the project was designed to provide sufficient financing to finance all eligible
and fully appraised subprojects through the end of 1996, and then to support subproject
implementation through the end of 1999. The only appraisal-stage indicator was the number of
completed subprojects, and it was estimated that the Project would support 60 to 80 subprojects
in all ODS user and producer industries. There was no target indicator for the actual amount of
ODS reduction to be achieved by this project, for the reason that target indicators were set at
the level of the Country Program, and not at the level of each intervention. China was using a
full range of financing instruments and regulatory measures to meet its ODS phase-out targets,
and results were measured at the level of the CP, not at the level of each project.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The development objective (DO), Global Environment Objective, and indicators, were not
revised during project execution.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Primary beneficiaries. The primary beneficiaries targeted by the project were ODS producer
and user enterprises. The project provided financing to convert their production from ODS to
non-ODS technology. These included enterprises in foam production, household and
commercial refrigeration equipment, aerosol products, mobile air conditioners, and halon
production (for fire extinguishers). Through technology conversion, most enterprises were able
to upgrade their technologies and equipment, and consequently produce higher quality products.

Indirect local beneficiaries. As beneficiary enterprises produced primarily consumer goods,
consumers benefitted from better quality products.

Secondary beneficiaries. The secondary beneficiary group were local implementing agencies
in China involved in the implementation of the Project. They included the project management
office in SEPA, procurement agencies, and financial agents (China Investment Bank (CIB),
China Everbright Bank (CEB), and China International Economic Cooperation (CIEC)). The
project provided training for these agencies on project management, procurement and
disbursement and the Montreal Protocol (e.g., its policies, financing guidelines, MP subproject
preparation and approval process, and reporting requirements). The list of beneficiary
enterprises funded under the Project is in Annex 10.

Direct global benefits. The direct global benefits of helping China eliminate ODS gases is
reduced negative health effects, which include increased skin cancer, immune system
deficiency, and cataracts in humans and animals, and other damages to plastics, crops and


                                              12
marine organisms. A secondary direct global benefit of ODS phase-out is the reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions, due to the high global warming impact of ODS chemicals.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project consisted of the following two components:

Component 1: Subprojects (US$87.3 million, including $10m that was originally unallocated).
This component was designed to finance subprojects in all ODS user and producer industries.
The project provided:
    a. technical and financial assistance to ODS consuming enterprises for cost effective
         investment to reduce consumption of ODS through the provision of alternative
         equipment and introduction of appropriate substitute technology; and
    b. assistance in closing CFC and halon production plants.
At the time of project approval, only 17 sub-projects were fully appraised. During the life of the
project, a total of 95 subprojects were eventually approved (see Table 2, below).

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening (US$0.1 million). The component was designed to
provide technical assistance to help strengthen: (a) the management and operational capability
of SEPA, and (b) the management and technical capabilities of the China Investment Bank
(CIB) and other financial institutions in the areas of procurement, disbursement, ODS
technology, and project implementation and supervision, through the provision of consultants'
services, training and equipment required.

Although not a project component, three percent of the grant (US$2.7 million) was ear-marked
as the Implementing Agency management fee.

1.6 Revised Components
The original project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
Grant amount and closing date extension. As this was an umbrella project (see section 1.1
for definition), not all subprojects were identified during project preparation. The Grant amount
was estimated at appraisal stage to be US$90.1 million, the best estimate of project needs at that
time. At the time of grant agreement signing in June 1995, 17 subprojects were prepared,
approved by ExCom, and ready for implementation. By 1999, about $86.3 million had been
committed to 87 subprojects, e.g., an amount that exceeded the original grant objective of
contracting 60-80 subprojects.

In May 2000, the project was extended to 2010 to coincide with the overall ODS phase-out date
of the Montreal Protocol, and the grant ceiling was increased by $30 million to US$120.1
million total. Both actions were taken on the expectation that an increased number of
subprojects would be approved in the first few years of the decade. Since the average time
required to complete subprojects was five years, this meant that any subproject approved in
2004 would not be completed until 2009. Extending the project until 2010 was a decision that
embraced all possibilities under the Montreal Protocol and was consistent with other Montreal
Protocol projects in other countries. As it turned out, the last subproject was approved in 2001
and the last disbursement made in 2005, showing that the extension was more than required and
was later shortened (for reasons provided below).

Migration of some eligible beneficiaries to the ODS-IV Project. When the ODS-III Project
was starting implementation, preparation was started on the ODS IV project, which was

                                               13
approved in November 1997. Using lessons from China and elsewhere, the ODS IV is a sector-
based project which phases out ODS on a sector basis, rather than on a project-specific basis.
The main difference was that under ODS-IV, the ExCom approved sector phase-out plans, but
not enterprise-specific phase-out plans. The government, however, would still be responsible
for negotiating individual phase-out plans. Once implemented, the World Bank would conduct
independent verification audits, and those audits would become the primary vehicle to ensure
the proper implementation of the sector plans.

All stakeholders ­ including the government, the Bank, and the MLF--found the ODS-IV
sector approach to be more flexible, efficient, and allowed for greater policy dialogue than the
previous umbrella project-based approach. Therefore, for two sectors included in ODS-III, i.e.,
the foam sector and the commercial refrigeration sector, sectoral plans were prepared. The
plans were designed to cover all ODS user enterprises in these two sectors that had not
previously received financing through ODS-III, and were approved by ExCom in 2002 and
2003. For this reason, some enterprises that might otherwise have been financed under ODS-III,
"migrated" to the ODS-IV project starting in 2002. This also explains why the ODS-III grant
increase approved in 2000 was not utilized.

Early closure of the project. By 2007, the ODS IV project has captured all eligible producer
and user enterprises in China, and it was quite apparent that there would be no more new
financing in the ODS III project. As all project activities were completed, the Bank, in
consultation with SEPA, considered closing the project 3 years prior to the (once-extended)
closing date.

During 2007-2008, however, SEPA, the Bank, and ExCom held discussions on a separate topic,
the accelerated phase-out of HCFC. HCFC's are a family of ODS chemicals not originally
included under the ODS-III Project, and whose agreed-upon phase-out date is 2040. One option
under debate was the possibility of adding new HCFC subprojects into the ODS III project. As
a result, the project was not closed in 2007 when the subprojects were actually completed, but
not until December 2008 when the Bank and SEPA decided that all HCFC subprojects would
be implemented under the ODS IV project.

Implementation arrangements. To manage the large number of subprojects, the China
Investment Bank (CIB) was selected to be a Financial Agent (FA) to help SEPA in subproject
preparation and implementation. CIB oversaw 44 out of the total of 87 completed subprojects.
China International Economic Consultant (CIEC) was competitively to be selected to be a
second FA and subsequently oversaw 40 projects (including 27 projects transferred from CIB
after 1999, for reasons given below in Section 2.2).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Implementation modality of the ODS III project. The ODS III Project was a follow-up
project to the ODS I and II projects. It was designed as an umbrella project building on the
Bank's model of financial development corporation operations. The umbrella project modality
was a new modality in MP operations in mid-1990s, and was different in some aspects from the
Bank's standard financial intermediary operations. The Project modality was:

a. The ExCom of the Multilateral Fund, not the Bank, approved every subproject. The Bank's
   role included provision of guidance in project design, implementation modality and

                                              14
       arrangements, MP policies and guidelines, conversion technology, and incremental cost
       calculation; and implementation oversight to ensure that subprojects were implemented as
       approved and ODS consumption phase-out achieved;
b.     All subprojects had to be implemented strictly as approved by ExCom with no flexibility.
       Any change in technology choice had to be re-submitted and re-approved by ExCom;
c.     The financial agents in the project ­ CIEC, CIB, and CEB (the successor to CIB) -- did not
       bear any credit or commercial risk. They received 1.5% of subproject amount as a
       management fee.
d.     It was the responsibility of the Government of China, represented by SEPA, to identify
       subprojects and be ultimately responsible to ExCom on the phase-out of these subprojects.
       After identification by SEPA and line ministries, the Bank and the financial agents helped
       beneficiary enterprises prepare their project documents, and the Bank submitted subproject
       documents to ExCom for approval. The Bank was also responsible for reporting to ExCom
       on subproject implementation progress on an annual basis;
e.     The criterion for selecting potential project beneficiaries was simply proof of production or
       purchase and use of ODS. Financial viability was not a major criterion. Given the Chinese
       Government's commitment to eliminate CFC production and consumption by January 1,
       2010, all ODS (CFC) users in the country had no choice but to phase out ODS (CFC) use
       by that date. What each enterprise was able to choose was whether or not to take advantage
       of the project's financial incentives.
f.     There was a grant agreement between the Bank and the Government of China, but no
       agreement between the Bank and the financial agents. Tripartite agreements for subproject
       implementation were signed between SEPA, the Ministry of Finance and the financial
       agents, and then individual subproject agreements were signed between the financial agents
       and the beneficiary enterprises;
g.     ExCom financed only subprojects, and there was no technical support for local
       implementing agencies. Thus the Bank provided $100,000 from its own management fee to
       help strengthen local capacity, particularly on project management, procurement and
       financial management. There were no public awareness activities in the project either, with
       two exceptions: (i) technical assistance for the commercial refrigeration sector, and (ii)
       technical assistance for the aerosol umbrella project (see section 2.2).

2.2 Implementation

The project started implementation in 1995 and closed at the end of 2008. During the life of the
project, 95 subprojects were approved by ExCom, 8 of which were later cancelled, and 87 of
which were fully implemented. This compares with the initial target of 60-80 subprojects. The
8 project cancellations were due to bankruptcies or mergers of the involved enterprises. As
shown in Table 2, the target of approving 60 subprojects was met in 1998, or two years later
than originally estimated in the grant agreement.

                                  Table 2. Subprojects Approved by Year

      Year                      1994       1995      1996      1997      1998      1999   2000   2001
      Approvals by year          17         14        14        10        5         28     6       1
      Cumulative                 17         31        45        55        60        88     94    95 /*
     Note: /* 8 subprojects were later cancelled due to enterprise bankruptcies.


The subprojects took longer to identify, prepare, and get approved by ExCom than was
originally envisioned under this "programmatic" approach (see section 2.2 for details), but this

                                                      15
did not affect China's achievement of timely ODS phase-out. The largest sector in terms of the
number of subprojects was the foam sector, followed by industrial and commercial refrigeration
(see Table 3). Given the overall progress under the project, sub-projects continued to be
processed and approved for three more years, until 2001, when it was clear that all new phase-
out contracts would be signed under ODS-IV.


                 Table 3. Subprojects by Sectors (excluding the eight cancellations)
                               Industrial &
                                                Household     Mobile Air
                    Foam       Commercial                                      Aerosol      Halon
                                               Refrigeration Conditioning
                               refrigeration
   Subprojects        50             19              11              4             2          1

One recurring theme of project implementation was delays, which fell into two categories. The
first is related to the preparation of subprojects, and the second is related to the implementation
of subprojects. Of the two, the latter set of delays required the most management attention.
Nevertheless, throughout the project, China remained fully in compliance with its ODS phase-
out targets, which is the only objective measure of the success of Montreal Protocol project
implementation. The reasons behind the delays are discussed below (section 2.2).

Another theme of project implementation is that the total level of beneficiary co-financing was
$18.2 million, or 17.5% of the total subproject cost -- less than the originally estimated 29.3%
co-financing share. This lesser amount of beneficiary co-financing was due to the final results
after the Montreal Protocol compensation packages were actually calculated. The MP requires
enterprises to pay for the estimated financial benefits of technology upgrading, as distinct from
the costs associated with ODS phase-out. The benefits of ODS phase-out technologies in China
were found to be less than originally estimated. This change in the beneficiary co-financing
ratio did not affect the achievement of the Montreal Protocol phase-out objective.

Details on the five ODS sectors included in the project, including the financing amounts, ODP
reduction amounts, unit cost of ODP reduction, and key issues, are all found in Annex 2.

Factors affecting implementation.

The main factors affecting implementation include: (a) enterprise reforms and restructuring of
SOEs in China; (b) financial sector reforms in China, leading to the restructuring of one of the
main financial agents; (c) complexity of the subproject design process; (d) rigidity in the use of
grants once approved; (e) complexities related to technology transfer; (f) inadequate levels of
incremental cost financing for conversion; (g) the complexity of implementing the tax
exemption on imported equipment; and (h) insufficient staffing at times at the financial agents.
These issues are discussed below.

a. Impact of enterprise reform and economic transition in China. Almost all beneficiary
   enterprises were stated owned enterprises (SOEs). As beneficiary enterprises were selected
   by the line ministries in consultation with FECO, MLF funding was in many cases seen as
   an opportunity to save SOEs. Responding to the rapid economic growth in China starting in
   late 1990s, SOEs had to be transformed to meet the economic challenge. This resulted in
   numerous changes in ownership, management structure, and business strategies over
   implementation years. They changed from 100% SOEs to joint ownership with workers,
   private/public partnerships, shareholding companies, listed corporations, joint ventures with

                                                16
    local partners and/or foreign companies, and the corporate restructuring seemed continuous.
    Some moved locations due to urbanization, some moved due to mergers with other
    enterprises, and some moved due to zoning changes to industrial development zones, etc.
    Consequently, management structure changed, ODS enterprise implementation teams
    changed, and ODS conversion projects were sometimes put on hold until restructuring had
    been completed. This created long delays in some subprojects.

b. Impact of financial sector reforms in China. In 1998, China underwent an extensive
   restructuring in its financial sector in which the China Investment Bank (CIB) was split,
   with pieces joining both the State Development Bank (SDB) and the China Everbright
   Bank (CEB). During this period, the subprojects allocated to CIB were relatively
   unattended. At first, SDB expressed interest in assuming control of the ODS program, but
   eventually decided to not do so. In 1999, the CIB ODS portfolio was assigned to CEB.
   Once assuming control, CEB did a good job of ensuring subprojects were completed, in
   spite of delays.

c. Complexity of the subproject design process. The preparation process included (a)
   identifying enterprises and negotiating ODS phase-out; (b) preparing documentation
   including estimated total and incremental eligible costs based on ExCom guidelines,
   requested level of MLF funding, justification for the substitute technology, environmental
   and health benefit/impacts, mitigation measures, and a time schedule with milestones; and
   (c) submission to the ExCom of the Multilateral Fund for approval, a process that took
   several months. The project team could only complete this process for about 15 subprojects
   per year, or at about the same rate of subproject preparation that was achieved during
   appraisal. As a result, it took more time to approve the first 60 subprojects than was
   originally projected -- although the initial target was subsequently surpassed.

d. The rigidity of approved grants. Consistent with the MP policies and guidelines, the
   ExCom provides funding for the conversion of ODS to non-ODS substitute technologies
   based on the baseline situation specific to each enterprise. As the sub-project documents for
   the conversion were prepared by the companies themselves, with the assistance of FECO
   and the Bank, technologies and cost were agreed before request for funding. Once approved,
   ExCom expected the funds to be used accordingly, and does not allow any flexibility.
   Beneficiaries were expected to implement the projects strictly according to the approved
   project document. Any change in technology choice and types of equipment to be procured
   need to be justified and approved by ExCom again before implementation. This created
   some delays. In retrospect, the MLF funding conditions and the Bank's implementation
   modality should have been better explained to the enterprises by FECO and the FAs. While
   the Bank had provided significant training to FECO and FAs, it appears that the
   information was not passed onto the beneficiary enterprises. Some enterprises apparently
   considered the MLF funding as a lump sum, allowing them to upgrade their production and
   import equipment while converting from ODS to non-ODS technology.

e. Complexities related to technology transfer. From 1995 to 1999, there were concerns by the
   beneficiary enterprises on the quality, cost and performance of substitute products. While
   these concerns delayed implementation, they eventually disappeared as more experience
   was gained, when the market accepted the non-ODS products, when economies of scale
   brought down costs, and when then market transition to non-ODS products was complete.
   Two of the more difficult sectors were refrigeration and foam, as detailed below. These
   examples are understandable given the range, complexity, scale, and competitiveness of the
   various ODS technologies.

                                              17
         Technological difficulties in the I&C refrigeration sector. Despite available funding,
         compressor manufacturers in Japan, USA and Europe were only willing to sell and
         transfer outdated HCFC-22 compressor technologies to China, as they themselves were
         trying to get into the Chinese market with their latest and more energy efficient
         technology. In the end, it was decided to do issue two ICB packages in order to contract
         two technology suppliers on behalf of all Chinese enterprises in this sector. This
         procurement process took 2 years or more, and even then there were problems with the
         UK and German specifications and language, and with delays in support being
         provided for technology installation and training. Therefore, the entire conversion to
         HCFC 22 was delayed in part because of the ICB bidding design. This delay might not
         have occurred had the enterprises been able to select their own technology suppliers,
         although the cost would have certainly been higher. Ultimately, with the Chinese
         market being flooded with new HCFC 22 technology, the enterprises who imported the
         outdated HCFC 22 technology under this project could not compete -- so many tried to
         upgrade their outdated technology with help from the I&C refrigeration component of
         the ODS IV project.

         Technological difficulties in the foam sector. The liquid carbon dioxide (LCD)
         technology for the flexible foam sector was widely accepted and used in developed
         countries, so the MLF agreed to finance the conversion to LCD technology even
         though it was much more expensive than conversion to the more common MCl. The
         cost difference was about US$400,000 for each LCD conversion vs. about $70,000 for
         each MCl conversion. However, the LCD blown foam was not well accepted in the
         Chinese market because of its feel, density, and cost. In spite of health and safety issues
         associated with MC1, the enterprises used MCl as blowing agent even with the
         expensive LCD equipment, leading to LCD subproject implementation delays. To
         address this dilemma, FECO provided additional technical assistance to the LCD
         enterprises under the ODS-IV project. Nevertheless, some enterprises continued to use
         MC1 as the blowing agent, and for those companies, FECO now promotes more careful
         health and safety monitoring. In spite of the extra efforts required, the project's ODS
         objective was met regardless of the use of LCD or MCl.

f.   Insufficient incremental cost for conversion and the need for co-financing. For some
     subprojects, the approved incremental cost was insufficient to cover conversion cost. This
     was particularly evident in the I&C refrigeration sector. While the government of China
     agreed to co-finance 20% of the cost of technical upgrades in the I&C refrigeration sector,
     the enterprises were not willing or able to raise the co-financing required. As co-financing
     had to be raised by the SOE enterprise before the sub-grant agreement could be signed,
     signing of some sub-grant agreements was delayed for up to two years. Therefore, the
     upfront agreement on a number of ExCom conditions for conversion projects and cost
     impacts should have been better evaluated by FECO and the I&C refrigeration industry.

g. Tax Exemption on imported equipment. Under the MP, taxes and import duties on non-
   ODS equipment and technology were not to be levied ­ and the MLF would only finance
   the cost of non-ODS equipment net of any governmental taxes and import duties. Therefore,
   the financial agents were instructed to apply for tax exemptions for the enterprise imports.
   Yet, the FAs could not process the tax exemption requests easily, and this was a cause of
   delay. In the end, the PMO agreed to take over this responsibility.



                                                18
h. Insufficient staffing at the financial agents. CEB and CIEC did a creditable job of managing
   the grant and of delivering its services. However, their staffing was sometimes inadequate,
   as both had only one full time staff, and other staff worked only part time on ODS. Progress
   reports were not always sent to the Bank in a timely manner, and PCR quality was
   sometimes lacking. The Bank and SEPA tried to support the operations of the FAs, and
   once the early intensive subproject preparation period was over, FA performance improved.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Supervision missions. During project implementation, supervision missions were undertaken
at least three times a year, always in conjunction with the parallel ODS IV project. This level
was adequate. Most missions visited selected subprojects, such as those with implementation
problems, in problem sectors, and/or problem locations. Site visits reports were attached to
mission aide memoires. These plant visits gave the Bank first-hand understanding of on-ground
implementation and provided opportunities to explain to enterprises on MP policies and
guidelines.

Progress reports of the Bank. The Bank team designed a set of semi-annual reports for the FA
to report back on subproject implementation and key milestones, including:
     a. signing date of the sub-grant agreement,
     b. project indicators, including CFC consumed in past three years, and during transition
             years (prior to full conversion), and final consumption, by enterprise,
     c. contracts for procurement of non ODS equipment,
     d. start of trial production with the substitute and quantities used,
     e. start of commercial production with non-CFC chemicals,
     f. disposal of ODS related equipment,
     g. subproject disbursement, with details on IOC, and
     h. submission of project completion report for the subprojects.

These progress reports sufficed for the requirement for the Bank to report semi-annually to
ExCom.

Project completion reports (PCRs). It is an ExCom requirement that every completed
subproject submit a PCR, and that the PCR be verified by a site visit by a Bank staff or
consultant. Each PCR contains details on equipment procured, payment from grants and
enterprise's own financing, ODS and substitutes consumed, actual production after conversion,
cost effectiveness, ODS equipment disposed, and certificates related to safety, health,
environment impact.

Management Information System (MIS). As the ODS program grew, it became apparent that
a MIS was a necessary management tool for SEPA, for the FAs, and the Bank. A MIS was
successfully created. Even though it was mostly funded by the ODS IV project, it included all
information on the ODS III project as well.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards.
a. The project was classified as a category B project, consistent with other Bank ODS projects.
    The project itself is an environment project to reduce emissions that damage the ozone
    layer. Enterprises have to prepare simple environmental impact reports based on local
    environmental requirements and report formats. As this project involves only conversion

                                              19
     activities (except the halon closure project noted below), there were no resettlement, no
     large construction (only minor workshop modification to accommodate new equipment),
     and in general, no adverse environment impacts. The enterprises followed local
     environmental requirements, submitted environmental management plan if required, and
     obtained approvals.
b.   Based on Montreal Protocol guidelines, only mature and proven technologies could be used.
     Health and safety issues were addressed during preparation of each subproject and funding
     was provided by the MLF. The specific requirements on post-conversion safety, health and
     environmental impact followed local safety requirements and are implemented by
     beneficiary enterprises. Some new equipment required certification before sub-grant
     agreements were to be signed. For local environment requirements, beneficiary enterprise
     needed to obtain certificates issued by local government agencies.
c.   During regular Bank missions, environmental specialists often provided short training to
     PMO and financial agents on Bank safeguard requirements. These short training sessions
     were often given in conjunction with the ODS IV project.
d.   Discarded ODS equipment were destroyed as per local requirements. As CFC and halon
     gases are not toxic, the scrap materials were told as waste metals. Relevant local agencies
     were present in the dismantling process and signed appropriate releases for documentation
     purposes.
e.   Some workers were displaced in the halon production closure project. Compensation was
     calculated based on the local requirement of two years lost wages, and was funded by the
     MLF.

Fiduciary.
a. Post procurement and expenditure reviews were carried out regularly by procurement and
   financial management specialists. Any issues raised in the expenditure and post
   procurement reviews were clarified and resolved. There was a case where the Bank
   suspected mis-procurement on technical assistant consultant contracts. After investigation,
   it was found that the signatory of the contracts was acceptable, and did not violate any
   Bank or Chinese contractual rules. The expenditure reviews confirmed that management of
   their project accounts was sound. On procurement, no significant violations were found in
   the post procurement reviews, even though ICB procurement was often slow.
b. Both financial agents and PMO have maintained detailed accounts of the project and
   prepared their respective progress reports. Annual financial audits were sent to the Bank
   and no issues have been identified.
c. Funding for eligible incremental cost associated with the conversion was provided based on
   the ExCom polices and guidelines. The subproject project document provided detailed cost
   for capital investment, operational and contingency costs and these costs were financed by
   the MLF. The enterprises had to report any differences between approved amounts and
   actual expenditures in regular reporting and in the subproject completion reports.
d. Like safeguards, the Bank's procurement and financial management specialists conducted
   numerous short trainings (half day to one day, also in conjunction with the ODS IV project)
   to PMO and financial agents to ensure that all relevant procedures were followed. The close
   involvement and oversight of Bank team in all phases of the project helped the counterparts
   implement the project successfully.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

On the enterprise level. A next phase is not required. The transition to regular production by
beneficiary enterprises is straightforward: for each subproject, it occurs at the completion of the
conversion, and the commencement of operations using the non-ODS substitute. At that point,

                                                20
it would be very costly, if not impossible, for enterprises to resume the use of ODS once their
ODS equipment was dismantled and scrapped. Therefore, conversion, one done, was adequate
to achieve the objective.

On the country level. For the chemicals targeted under this project, a next phase is not
required. The ODS III and the ODS IV projects captured all ODS production and consumption
phase-out activities in China. The ODS-IV project will not close until 2011, and will help
China to meet all of its phase-out commitment by 2010.

3. Assessment of Outcomes.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's global environment objective (GEO) is directly linked to China's Country
Assistance Strategy (2006) which states that the World Bank group aims to help China observe
international environmental conventions. This project supports China's compliance with two
such conventions: the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer that China
signed in September 1989, and the London Amendment of the Montreal Protocol on Substances
That Deplete the Ozone Level that China ratified in 1991. As one of the implementing agencies
under the Montreal Protocol, the World Bank implemented this as one of four ODS projects in
China. The relevance of this task is highlighted by the fact that China was the largest producer,
user, and exporter of ODS chemicals.

At the time, this ODS III project was designed differently than the earlier two ODS projects,
since the earlier modality could not meet the complex demands of helping China to phase out
all of its ODS in a timely and efficient manner. As a result, this project developed and
successfully applied an umbrella (time-slice) modality. This project was the first MP project to
use this modality, and it was subsequently used in all World Bank MP operations worldwide.

Lessons learned from the implementation of this project are summarized in section 6. While
this project is rated as being fully successful, its successor project, ODS-IV, introduced yet a
new methodology in which the Montreal Protocol ExCom approved sector phase-out plans but
no longer approved individual subprojects.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

ODS phase-out. The project phased out a total of 19,062 MT ODP by 87 subprojects, or 38%
of the total China baseline. With the combined ODS I, II, III and IV projects, China met its
50% reduction target in 2005 for CFCs and halons, and its 85% reduction target for CFCs ­ in
other words, it is fully compliant with its international obligations as shown in Table 1. In
addition, China succeeded in accelerating the phase-out of the foam sector on July 1, 2007, two
and half years ahead of schedule. These are significant contributions to the global ODS
phase-out effort (see Annex 2 for details of the ODS phase-out for each subsector).

The ODS phase-out in China was also very cost-effective (another element of the DO).
Average cost-effectiveness was $5.01/kg ODP, ranging from less than $1/kg in the aerosol and
halon sectors to $12.92 in the commercial refrigeration sector (see Annex 2). These unit costs
compare very favorably with international costs, probably due to the relatively large economies
of scale in China. For example, unit phase-out costs in the aerosol sector in India in the 1990s
ranged from $1.91 to $4.40/kg, or 2.5-6 times higher than in China. Similarly, the cost of CFC


                                               21
phase-out in the foam sector in India was $4.84 to 7.64/kg, or up to 70% more expensive than
in China.

Reduction of global warming emissions. The project had further direct global environmental
benefits by generating global warming emissions reductions. GWP reductions are typically
associated with production phase-out only (and not consumption sector phase-out). The only
production sector phase-out subcomponent was for halon. Therefore, the GWP impact of the
Project can be estimated from its 1,200 tons of halon phased-out, which is equivalent to a
reduction of 2.2 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions.

Institutional strengthening. Through various training activities, the SEPA has built up a
strong management team in project development and implementation. This was instrumental
for the implementation of this project and of the ODS IV project as well, which ran in parallel
for several years. The institutional strengthening was accomplished via 10 formal and many
more informal workshops organized by the Bank, PMO, CIB, CEB, CIEC and enterprises,
engaging all level of project participants. The formal workshops were held semi-annually in the
earlier years of the project, and more occasionally afterwards. Topics covered included
procurement, disbursement, MP policy and guidelines, eligibility, preparation of subproject
appraisal reports, project cost estimates and technology choice, subproject project completion
reports (a requirement of ExCom).

Training sessions were mostly organized by financial agents with speakers from the Bank,
PMO and technical consultants on technology issues. At the enterprise level, the workshops
were particularly useful for sharing experiences in technology transfer issues and use of new
imported equipment (see Annex 2 for details).

3.3 Efficiency

A financial rate of return was not estimated for ODS conversion projects. As noted above,
given the mandatory nature of the phase-out, emphasis was put on cost-effectiveness and not
rate of return (see Annex 3).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project objective was fully achieved, as evidenced by:
    the project completed 87 subprojects vs. a target level of 60-80 subprojects;
    it led to 38% of baseline CFCs being eliminated;
    it made cost-effective use of grant funds;
    it achieved good programmatic integration across the ODS I, II and IV projects; and
    it helped ensure China's continuing compliance with its international commitments.

The project achieved its objective through financing of enterprises to convert their CFC
production into non-CFC production, and complementary workshops and TA as required. With
financing of investment projects, the project initiated substantial industrial restructuring in six
sectors. Together with the parallel implementation of the ODS IV project, the project helped the
promulgation of many ODS policies, regulations and standards which improved both quality
standards in industrial sectors involved in the phase-out and government monitoring procedures.



                                               22
With the four ODS projects, China has been able to meet all phase-out reduction targets to date,
and it is expected that China will meet its 100% phase-out commitment by January 1, 2010.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

a. Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not Applicable.

b. Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Bank team conducted numerous formal, informal and short training sessions for the PMO,
CIB, CEB, CIEC and beneficiary enterprises on project management, the project cycle,
procurement and disbursement procedures, safeguard requirements, MP guidelines, policy and
funding eligibility, preparation of subproject appraisal reports & project completion reports,
and conversion technologies. In addition, there were several workshops organized by the
financial agents for beneficiary enterprises to share experiences, particularly on technology
transfer issues and use of new equipment. Project counterparts found that these training
activities and workshops were instrumental in successful implementation of conversion projects.

In addition, the Bank's ODS coordination unit in the Environment Department has organized
annual workshops since mid-1990s for all ODS clients (including all local implementing
agencies and financial agents) to provide the most up-to-date MP policies and guidelines,
reporting requirements, latest technology development, and most importantly, shared
experiences among all participating countries. The Chinese local agencies found these
workshops very helpful.

Through these activities and through experiences gained from project implementation, China
has built up a very well organized, technically strong, and committed project management team
in ODS phase-out.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Industrial restructuring and better consumer products. When the China ODS program
started in 1993, China had a large and inefficient number of enterprises in different ODS
production and user sectors. With technology upgrade and MP funding being limited, structural
changes in various industrial sectors, principally in the industrial and commercial refrigeration
sector, mobile air conditioning sector, aerosol sector, foam sector and the ODS production
sectors, were inevitable. Acquisitions, mergers, closures and conversion to other lines of
production made some industrial sector more efficient and more competitive, producing better
qualify consumer products for end-users. This consolidation period was also complemented by
rapid economic growth in China and the desire for better products by consumers.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

All stakeholders in the China ODS program, of which this project is part, expressed their
commitment to participating and pride in the program's achievements (details in Annex 6).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Risk (Low) and Sustainability (Highly Likely)

                                               23
Sustainability (in the sense that the ODS consumption phased out under the project will stay
phased out) is rated as highly likely, because:

a. All the ODS III beneficiary subprojects have converted to non-ODS production and have
   committed not to revert back to CFC use. After converting to non-ODS processes, it is
   highly unlikely for beneficiaries to revert, given the cost of re-conversion and given limited
   CFC supply after CFC production was stopped by July 1, 2007. Illegal supplies are scarce
   and prohibitively priced.
b. The ODS IV project, currently under implementation, has a strong policy and enforcement
   component. A new law expected to be approved by the State Council in 2009 will provide
   the new MEP a legal basis to enforce and penalize any violation in ODS activities
   (production, sales, export/import and use).
c. All ODS-producing countries, except North Korea, are parties to the Protocol, and the
   international market for the substances ­ CFCs, halons, CTC, and TCA ­are expected to be
   phased out internationally in line with the requirements of the Montreal Protocol, leading to
   a near-complete absence of supply post-2010.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

In 1995, China was a large ODS producer and user. It was determined that the use of an
umbrella agreement would be an appropriate instrument to handle a large number of
subprojects to be identified mostly during project implementation. Under this approach, some
but not all subprojects were identified during appraisal, and other subprojects continued to be
identified throughout implementation.

From project identification to appraisal, the Bank maintained a strong team with relevant
experience on Bank operations, financial intermediation, ODS technology, and Montreal
Protocol policy and guidelines. The team worked well with all stakeholders, including MOF,
SEPA, the Project Management Office, CIB, and the enterprises throughout project preparation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision efforts. The project required intensive supervision, adequately financed through
the management fee provided by ExCom. There were about three supervision missions a year
throughout the project period. They were planned together with the ODS IV project whose
identification started in early 1996. Specific supervision characteristics include:

a. Supervision from 1996 to 1999 included pipeline development. As required by ExCom, the
   supervision team participated in each subproject preparation, including provision of
   technical consultants to beneficiary enterprises in the selection of conversion technology,
   cost calculations, and preparation of project documents for subprojects. The Bank
   submitted project documentation for each potential subproject to ExCom for funding
   approval.


                                               24
b. As the implementing agency for the MP, the Bank reported to ExCom on subproject
   implementation as per the format provided by ExCom. This was successfully done.
c. The nature of the project also required extensive administrative and coordination work with
   ExCom, much more than a regular Bank project. The team received strong support from the
   Bank's MP coordination unit in the Environment Department.
d. Upon completion of each subproject, the ExCom requires a project completion report
   (PCR). The ExCom provides a standard format which includes detailed project conversion
   activities with comparison of cost at project preparation and actual expenditures. This is an
   exercise which is extremely time consuming and expensive. The team typically recruited a
   technical consultant to help prepare each PCR.
e. The team regularly monitored compliance with the Bank's fiduciary and safeguard policies,
   reviewed procurement procedures and disbursement, and audit reports.
f. Mission aide memoires and ISRs provide candid and realistic implementation status of the
   project.

Responsiveness to client needs. By maintaining the same core team throughout project
implementation, dialogue between the Bank, ExCom members and external clients was
facilitated. Positive examples of responsiveness include:
a. When subproject portfolio increased in 1996, the Bank team responded constructively to
    help select and train a new financial agent to take over some ODS subprojects which were
    originally earmarked for CIB. As such, the Grant Agreement was amended in March 2007
    to include a new financial agent (China International Economic Consultants, CIEC).
b. When CIB was merged with SDB in 1999, and when the ODS portfolio managed by CIB
    was frozen for a year, the Bank helped the transfer of the ODS files to China Everbright
    Bank (CEB) who bought the ODS portfolio from CIB through SDB, so that CEB could
    continue supervision of these subprojects. Nonetheless, due to lack of supervision by a
    financial agent for a year, many subprojects have lagged behind.
c. When the grant size was almost fully committed by 1999, and as there were still enterprises
    in the foam and refrigeration sectors that use ODS, the Bank initiated a Grant amendment
    in March 2000 to increase the grant size from US$90.1 million to $120.1 million and
    extended the closing date from early 2001 to December 2010 to coincide with the final
    phase-out date of CFC and halon by 2010.
d. The Bank took the initiative to address the problem of disbursing against incremental
    operating costs (IOC), i.e., the difference in raw material costs when moving from ODS to
    non-ODS technology. This calculation is difficult at best, fraught with methodological
    issues, and in any case, very slow. The Bank proposed and adopted the approach of
    disbursing against raw material expenditures until the ex-ante, calculated IOC limit was
    reached. This facilitated quicker disbursement.
e. The team realized the importance of institutional strengthening. In addition to providing
    guidance and TA on project management, procurement, financial management, and MP
    policies & guidelines to local agencies, the team used US$100,000 from its own
    management fee for training and workshops.

Quality of Supervision (QSA). The project had a QSA/QSR assessment in November 2001,
and received a moderately unsatisfactory rating due to concerns over financial management and
the monitoring framework. The overall assessment was that "Due to factors specific to the
Montreal Protocol, the team was able to afford near-continuous supervision, and has made good
use of those resources." At the time, the team questioned the moderately unsatisfactory rating
linked to the specific shortcomings mentioned, but apparently did not resolve differences of
opinion with QAG. Subsequently to the review, specific actions were taken to improve project
supervision, as noted below in italics.

                                              25
a. Main problems encountered:
    Certain financial management aspects showed weaknesses. The FM function in the
       Beiing office has been strengthened since 2001 and has been very successfully engaged
       in this project;
    Frequent turnover and reorganization in Bank management (not TTL level). As shown
       in Annex 4, the number of technical staff members is relatively few for a complex
       project with a long life-span such as this one. Many team members, such as Helen
       Chan, Qing Wang, Ji Feng, Martin Fodor, Erik Pedersen, Neeraj Prasad, Peishen
       Wang and Leon Chen worked continually on the project though-out the period 2000-06,
       which is when active project operations stopped. Therefore, this QAG concern was
       successfully addressed.
    DO and IP ratings could be better explained in view of a significant volume of data
       being collected and this data also needs to be better reflected in the PSR monitoring
       framework. The phase-out results were added to the monitoring framework. This QAG
       concern was always a question of presentation, not substance, since the data
       concerning the ODS phase-out was always more than an "indicator". Rather, the
       phase-out data was the very basis for project disbursements. Therefore, they were
       tracked and independently verified every year. Still, the management-level reporting
       was modified to better show project trends.
b. Systemic lessons:
    The regional portfolio review process seemed to overlook ODS projects. By improving
       the PSR reporting, management was made more aware of the ODS portfolio.
    during part of the period under review, the task team was unable to archive PSRs as the
       system did not recognize the operation as a Bank project. This technical issue was
       solved.
c. Suggestions to the task team:
    Participation of a certified FMS in a supervision mission should be considered. Done.
    More attention to linking the data collected by the project to the M&E framework
       attached to PSRs would be helpful. Done.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

It is rated satisfactory because ratings for Bank performance for both preparation and
supervision are satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

From identification to project completion, the Government remained fully committed to ODS
phase-out in China. SEPA appointed FECO to oversee preparation and implementation of the
project. A Project Management Office (PMO) within FECO was established and it had
expanded quickly from two staff in the first year to a contingent of over 25 staff. It was
adequately staffed throughout implementation years. The PMO was responsible for identifying
ODS producers and user enterprises in consultation with line ministries and industry

                                            26
associations; assigning and coordinating work with financial agents and among international
implementing agencies (including the Bank); facilitating ODS-related investments and fiscal
exemptions (such as duty exemption for port clearance of equipment procured under the
project); and overall project management. The PMO has shown strong commitment and
ownership of the project on behalf of the Government. Involved stakeholders -- beneficiary
enterprises, CEB and CIEC ­ have expressed satisfaction with the performance of the PMO in
project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The two financial agents (CEB and CIEC) successfully completed all subprojects despite
operational difficulties and some delays. They helped in project preparation, supervised
subprojects on a daily basis, and reported subproject implementation status to PMO and the
Bank. They were also responsible for preparing all project completion reports and providing
other necessary documentation. Key issues with CEB and CIEC's performance were under-
staffing. Financial audit reports were generally acceptable. Where there were exceptions noted
by the auditors, they were generally of a minor nature and were remedied.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was completed satisfactorily due to the satisfactory collaboration between
government (SEPA), the financial agents, industry associations, and the enterprises. Enterprises
provided significant human resources and counterpart funding to the project. Many enterprises
evaluated their subproject successful, were able to maintain or even improve their product
quality after conversion (Annex 6).

6. Lessons learned

There are six main lessons learned from the project: (a) the lack of an adequate policy and
regulatory framework made the transition away from ODS into substitutes more difficult and
prolonged; (b) the lack of public awareness of the ODS phase-out objective during early project
years also made the transition away from ODS into substitutes more difficult; (c) the project
would have benefitted from increased involvement of provincial and local governments; (d) the
way in which project beneficiaries/enterprises were selected was too mechanical; (e) the
process of technology transfer is not completely under the control of the project and therefore
introduces uncertainties; and (f) the quality and continuity of key personnel benefited the
project immensely.

a. Lack of policy and regulatory framework. The ODS III project did not provide financial
   assistance for policy review, revisions, and promulgation of new policies. At that time, the
   MLF focused solely on individual enterprises. While the China Country Program set
   priorities at the time on individual enterprises, no mandatory policy was issued to control
   ODS production and consumption in the early years of the ODS III project. Therefore,
   phase-out enforcement of ODS phase-out was difficult for both SEPA and the financial
   agents in the early years of the project. There was also an inadequate framework for SEPA
   to enforce ODS regulations. To remedy this, the ODS IV project played a key role in
   promoting relevant ODS policies and regulations, including tradable production quota

                                              27
     system, export/import licenses, bans on ODS consumption in different sector plans, and
     annual reduction of ODS production.

b. Lack of public awareness in the project's early years. During implementation, there was
   very limited knowledge of the ODS phase-out objective and of the country's MP
   commitment at all government levels ­ e.g., state, provincial, and local ­ as well as in the
   general public and at enterprises. SEPA and line ministries were pre-occupied with
   identifying subprojects, but this process was delayed by the lack of public awareness. Early
   efforts in this area would have facilitated the project identification process.

c. Little involvement from provincial and local government. Throughout implementation
   years, it was PMO in SEPA and the financial agents who worked directly with beneficiary
   enterprises. Provincial and local governments, especially local Environmental Protection
   Bureaus (EPBs) and local Administrations of Industry and Commerce, were not informed
   or involved in subproject identification and implementation. When serious problems
   evolved, such as (a) re-location, (b) enterprise restructuring and (c) managerial and
   financial difficulties, the financial agents were unable to solve these issues as they did not
   have the power to do so. Only when the projects ran into such serious problems that they
   could no longer move forward did SEPA invite local and provincial governments to help.
   Greater local involvement, early on, would have facilitated project implementation. This
   lesson has been learned and applied in ODS-IV.

d. Selection modality of subprojects. All subprojects were selected by SEPA and line
   ministries, but some were not technically ready. Under ODS-III, the main selection criteria
   was simply the use of ODS in the enterprise's production. Since the criteria lacked proof of
   interest or financial viability, it is not surprising that 8 ODS-III subprojects went bankrupt
   prior to completing conversion. The ODS IV project introduced a more nuanced approach
   to beneficiary selection by inviting proposals from interested and capable enterprises.

e. Technology transfer is not completely under the control of the project. The project
   incurred delays, particularly in the industrial/commercial refrigeration and foam sectors,
   related to the difficulty of completing the desired technology transfer. In the first case
   (IC&R), companies in the U.S. and Europe were not willing to sell their latest technology
   through the project, choosing instead to make it selectively available to their own Chinese
   joint venture partners. In the second case (foam), the latest technology that met U.S. and
   European standards was not accepted in the Chinese marketplace, and so introduced delays
   and was ultimately not used. In hindsight, in both cases, the project needed to better
   understand the market dynamics of the technologies it was promoting, and to recognize the
   project's limits in the global marketplace.

f.   Continuity and quality of key personnel from all stakeholders. High quality and
     continuous staff are important to ensure project success. The Bank, financial agents, and
     SEPA were mostly able to maintain their key staff for the ODS III project for more than ten
     years. However, many enterprises, due to the reforms being undertaken in the Chinese
     industrial sector, underwent several rounds of restructuring, and both their managerial and
     technical teams changed several times during project implementation, causing delays.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

SEPA has expressed general satisfaction with the project. Their written unedited version is
attached in Annex 7. Their main comments are summarized below.

                                               28
With the implementation of the ODS III project, beneficiaries, PMO and financial agents have
their capacity strengthened and obtained hands-on experience from the project. The following
points can be used for future projects.

    a. Projects should be implemented on country level, instead of subproject-by-subproject
       level. PMO should have been given more flexibility to attain better project
       management and coordination;
    b. Reliance on technical know-how and guidance of line ministries and industrial
       associations are necessary;
    c. Financial situation and willingness of enterprises to participate in project should be
       carefully evaluated;
    d. At project preparation stage, it is important to assist enterprise in establishment of a
       project team and to provide enterprise management with necessary training;
    e. Implementation procedures are suggested to be simplified, where appropriate; and
    f. Financial institutions ought to have played a more proactive role in project appraisal
       and management.

CIEC and CEB provided both written comments (Annex 8).

(b) Co financiers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

As detailed in Annex 5, the enterprises reported in a beneficiary survey that the joint efforts of
the Multilateral Fund, the World Bank, and the enterprises had made ODS III a successful
program. While many enterprises reported benefits associated with working with the project to
import the latest technology, including improved management skills, a few reported lost profits
due to higher costs.

As detailed in Annex 8, the Financing Agents (FAs) reported confidence that the ODS phase-
out process had gone well, with three more specific messages. First, the project had
experienced delays for many different reasons at different times, but that the sources of these
delays were well understood and had been addressed in both ODS-III and ODS-IV. Second, it
would have been preferable were local government agencies more involved in the project from
early in the project cycle. Third, ongoing training, of government agencies, the FAs, and the
enterprise beneficiaries themselves, is important.




                                                29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing 

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent
                                   Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
          Components             Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                                                        Appraisal
                                    millions)         millions)


Investments in ODS sector
                                        77.30              85.82          111.0%
subprojects
Institutional Strengthening              0.10              0.10           100.0%
Unallocated                             10.00              0.00            0.0%
Agency Fee and Charges                   2.70              2.59            95.9%
              Total Baseline Cost       90.10              88.51           98.2%
Physical Contingencies                   0.00
Price Contingencies                      0.00
              Total Project Costs       90.10              88.51           98.2%



(b) Financing
                                      Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                      Estimate         Estimate       Percentage of
        Source of Funds
                                                                       Appraisal
                                    (USD millions)   (USD millions)
 Montreal Protocol Investment
Fund, originally authorized grant       90.10            88.51           98.2%
            amount
  Montreal Protocol Investment
                                        30.00             0.00            0.0%
  Fund, increase in grant ceiling
  Montreal Protocol Investment
  Fund, Total authorized grant         120.10            88.51           73.7%
            amount
          Beneficiaries                  37.5            18.16           48.4%




                                                30
         Annex 2. Outputs by Component 
         1. Outputs by Component  

                                                    Commercial        Household
                                         Foam                                            MAC        Aerosol     Halon        Total
           Component A                              Refrigeration    Refrigeration

Subprojects (by sectors)                   50            19                11              4           2          1           87

MLF funding provided (USD)             20,590,762    43,128,563       13,785,222      6,352,510 1,858,175 104,000         85,819,233

Co-financing provided by
                                       2,000,000     11,418,911        2,397,000       610,791     1,000,000 734,000      18,160,702
enterprises (USD)
Total cost (USD)                       22,590,762    54,547,474       16,182,222      6,963,301 2,858.175 838,000 103,979,934

ODP reduction (tons)                     5,126         4,221.1           1,798           1,430       5,287      1,200       19,062

US$/ODP kg /*                             4.41          12.92             9.00           4.87         0.54       0.70        5.45

Note: /* Ratio based on full project cost if known, otherwise based on the MLF funding provided.

           Component B
Institutional strengthening           In the form of formal and informal workshops organized by the Bank, PMO, CIB, CEB, CIEC
                                      and enterprises. There were over 10 formal workshops and many informal workshop conducted
                                      almost semi-annually, especially in the earlier years of the project. Formal workshops were paid
                                      from the component, informal workshops were paid by PMO and financial agents from their
                                      management fees and by Bank budgets (i.e. staff cost in conducting these workshops). All
                                      domestic stakeholders considered these workshops instrumental in facilitating project
                                      implementation and management. It was particularly useful for PMO, CEB and those enterprises
                                      who participated in the ODS IV project and who may participate in the proposed HCFC project.

Project Management Office in          Training was conducted in the areas of the Bank project cycle, Bank operations, procurement
FECO, SEPA                            procedures, disbursement procedures, MP policy, eligibility, guidelines, and preparation of
                                      TORs. These are mostly carried by Bank staff, and organized by Bank team and PMO.

China Investment Bank                 Focus on procurement, disbursement, MP policy and guidelines, eligibility, preparation of
                                      subproject appraisal reports (for Bank approval), and project summaries (for submission to the
China Everbright Bank
                                      ExCom for approval), project cost estimates and technology choice, preparation of subproject
China International Economic          project completion report (a requirement of ExCom). These are mostly organized by financial
Consultants                           agents with speakers from the Bank, PMO and technical consultants on technology issues.

Procurement agencies                  Focus on procurement procedures, conducted by Bank procurement specialists and was repeated
                                      at least every year.

Beneficiary enterprises               Workshops organized mostly by financial agents and enterprises at the request of the Bank team
                                      for enterprises to share experiences, particularly on technology transfer issues and use of new
                                      imported equipment.



         2. Issues Specific to each ODS Subsector under Component A 
         The Polyurethane (PU) foam sector.
         a. The project financed 55 PU foam project with $20.6 million, 34 of which were for flexible
            foam, 17 rigid foam and 4 polyethylene foam enterprises. Overall cost-effectiveness of this
            subsector was $4.40/kg ODP.


                                                                31
b. The initial substitute for the flexible foam was methylene chloride (MCl). There were very
   limited modifications required on the existing production line with the use MCl. The main
   financial support was (i) for ventilation to reduce exposure of MCl to workers, and (ii) for
   fire safety measures due to the fire hazard associated with MC blown foam. A total of 13
   MCl flexible foam projects were financed. The typical MLF cost of a MCl project was
   $297,842 with safety measures accounted for 70% of the cost. Cost effectiveness of MCl
   projects was averaged $2.76/kg of ODP.
c. With the ban on MCl in several developed countries and additional safety requirements in
   other countries, liquid carbon dioxide (LCD) was introduced as a substitute for CFC and
   MC globally. A total of 24 LCD flexible foam projects were financed, although 4 were later
   cancelled due to the bankruptcy of the enterprises. The average cost of LCD projects was
   $413,782 with equipment cost accounting for over 70% of the cost. All 20 enterprises
   conducted trial production, passed the commissioning test, and accepted the equipment.
   Some enterprises had problems during the trial due to: (i) the high cost of raw materials,
   and (ii) the use of "fillers" which clogged up the LCD system. A lingering problem was
   that none of the enterprises were able to produce the very low density foam preferred by the
   foam users in the Chinese market.

Industrial and Commercial (I&C) Refrigeration Sector.
a. The "Strategy for CFC Phase-out in the Industrial and Commercial Refrigeration (I&C
   refrigeration) Sector in China" was prepared by China in 1995 and agreed between China,
   ExCom and the World Bank. This strategy formed the basis of funding for the sector, in
   which 65 enterprises with 73 production lines were consolidated into 24 production lines in
   24 enterprises. The capacity of the 24 production lines was increased to match the overall
   capacity of the 73 lines. The remaining production facilities in the other 41 compressor
   enterprises ceased CFC-based compressor production. The project financed 19 of the 24
   consolidated enterprises, and the ODS-IV Project financed the remaining 5, as they were
   linked to specific TA activities also financed under ODS-IV.
b. The strategy also included financial support for revision of standards and for upgrading the
   testing facility at the Hefei General Machinery Research Institute. This financial support by
   the MLF was in the form of a Technical Assistance (TA) project of US$692,400,
   implemented in the Bank system as a Project Preparation Advance Grant, started in 1999
   and completed in 2000. (It was not part of the ODS-III project per se.) This Technical
   Assistance project provided technical support in: (a) revisions of 11 technical standards for
   non-ODS compressors and compressor components, (b) conversion of test equipment at
   Hefei Institute, (c) establishment of a licensing and quality control system, plus necessary
   equipment, and (d) facilitating technology transfer of HCFC 22 technology to the 18
   commercial refrigeration sector. This TA project was an integral and essential activity in
   the I&C refrigeration sector, and played a critical role in the success of conversion
   activities in the I&C refrigeration sector.
c. In order to meet the more stringent requirements for HCFC-22 and HCFC-134a
   compressors, the existing production equipment was replaced with state of the art automatic
   computerized production equipment. The ExCom agreed that the cost of technology
   transfer from manufacturers in the developed countries for HCFC-22 compressor design
   and production would be covered by the MLF. As this also represented a significant
   technical upgrade compared to the existing production equipment and technologies, SEPA
   agreed, on behalf of the enterprises, to co-finance 20% of the conversion cost.
d. China also agreed not to request MLF funding for otherwise eligible incremental cost
   related to: (a) conversion of commercial and industrial refrigeration industry in general, (b)
   conversion cost of end-users, and (c) incremental operating costs related to the conversion


                                               32
   of compressors. China has also agreed not to request funding for conversion from HCFC-
   22 to a truly non-ODS solution when required by the MP.
e. The cost-effectiveness of ODP phase-out in IC&R, at $12.92/kg, was the highest of all
   subsectors.

Household Refrigeration Sector.
a. ExCom approved 14 subprojects in this sector, of which three were refrigeration foam, two
   were combined projects on refrigerant conversion and refrigeration foam, six were
   demonstration-scale projects, and three were cancelled due to the bankruptcy of the
   enterprises.
b. The six demonstrations were approved by ExCom to evaluate potential candidate
   refrigerants. The candidates tested were HCFC-22, HCFC-134a, HFC-152a and blends.
   The blends were eventually rejected as they were considered difficult to handle safely in
   the service sector.
c. HFC-152a was the preferred candidate due to its performance as refrigerants and its low
   GWP. However, HFC-152a was eventually dropped due to its flammability, and the global
   market had already moved to HFC-134a and isobutene. It was more expensive to buy HFC
   152a compressors.
d. Eventually, all Chinese household refrigerators moved to HFC-134a as refrigerants, and
   isobutene for insulation foam.
e. The eight domestic refrigerator manufacturing companies had an annual production
   capacity of over 2 million units at a total conversion cost of $13.8 million and a cost
   effectiveness of $7.67/ODP kg.

Mobile Air Conditioning (MAC) Sector.
a. A strategy was developed in 1995 for the phase-out of CFC-12 in the MAC sector. The
   strategy was to convert component manufacturers, i.e. manufacturers of MAC compressors,
   heat exchangers, tubes, and driers. It was the expectation that when the conversion was
   completed, the vehicle manufacturers would change their MAC systems and procure the
   necessary components from the converted manufacturers.
b. Four subprojects were approved by ExCom in the ODS III project, two for compressors and
   two for heat exchanges at a total cost of $ 6.3 million. The cost of ODP phase-out was
   $1.83/kg, one of the lowest in the project.
c. During the implementation of the four subprojects, it was found that just converting the
   component manufacturers would not automatically lead to a change of MAC systems to
   HFC-134a by the vehicle producers. The vehicle producers had the option of buying
   necessary components from other sources, or importing them from abroad.
d. It was concluded that the sector strategy had to be updated. It was also concluded that
   further activities in the MAC sector would be implemented in a sector approach under the
   ODS IV. The conversion of the vehicle manufacturers, even if they were not supported
   financially, was a necessary performance indicator in the sector plan.

Aerosol sector.
a. Two aerosol projects were financed with a total grant of US$5.3 million. The cost of ODP
   phase-out was only $0.35/kg.
b. Together with the three aerosol projects in the ODS I project, the activities under ODS-III
   completed the phase-out in the aerosol sector, the first sector to achieve 100% phase-out in
   China.
c. The aerosol umbrella project had a strong technical assistance component with provisions
   on safety training to small fillers & promotion of safety, monitoring procedures, and quality
   control in products and processing. These activities help sustainable phase-out in the sector.

                                               33
Fire Protection Sector (Halon 1211 production).
a. One halon production closure project was financed. This sector was the only production
    sector phase-out under this Project. The unit cost of ODP reduction was a mere $0.09/kg.
b. Upon approving this project, ExCom made funding contingent on an overall production
    reduction of halon 1211 in China. While China agreed to the condition, it did not have the
    necessary policies in place to meet this commitment. As a result, overall national
    production of halon 1211 was actually increasing at the time, as other producers were
    increasing their production. Given the partial approach in this sector, two things happened.
    First, ExCom agreed to pay only for labor compensation, but not for lost profits for the
    enterprise. Second, the ODS IV project was developed to support sector-wide phase-out
    with appropriate policies and technical assistance.




                                              34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis 
As this project was designed to help China meet its mandatory international obligation to
phase-out ODS, no specific estimate was made of the project's likely economic rate of return
(ERR), net present value (NPV) or financial rate of return (FRR). Rather, the project modality
was to work with each enterprise to agree on the most-cost effective means to achieve CFC
phase-out.

The project's underlying principle was to compensate firms for costs driven by an international
agreement that was "external" to their daily business operations. The Montreal Protocol
requires enterprises to pay for the estimated financial benefits of technology upgrading, as
distinct from the external costs associated with ODS phase-out. However, the project was never
meant to generate a positive rate of return.

The average cost of ODP phase-out across the entire project was $5.01/kg ODP. As detailed in
Annex 2, the unit costs range from $0.09/kg in the halon production sector, to $12.92 in the
commercial refrigeration sector. These unit costs compare very favorably with international
costs, probably due to the relatively large economies of scale in China. For example, unit
phase-out costs in the aerosol sector in India in the 1990s ranged from $1.91 to $4.40/kg, or
2.5-6 times higher than in China. Similarly, the cost of CFC phase-out in the foam sector in
India was $4.84 to 7.64/kg, or up to 70% more expensive than in China.

The financial benefits of ODS phase-out technologies in China were found to be less than
originally estimated. As a result, enterprise co-financing was less than the originally estimated
amount. Total project co-financing was $18.2 million, or 17.5% of the total subproject cost ­ as
opposed to the originally estimated amount of 29.3% of costs. The reasons for this lower ratio
have to do with problems of the Montreal Protocol procuring the latest technology available to
the market (see Section 2.2 and Annex 2). However, this lower beneficiary co-financing ratio
did not affect the achievement of the Montreal Protocol phase-out objective.




                                               35
Annex  4.  Bank  Lending  and  Implementation  Support/Supervision 
Processes 

(a) Task Team members
                                                                Responsibility/
          Names               Title                  Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Helen Chan           Sr. Operations Off          EASRE      Project management
Leon Chen            Consultant                  EASRE      Refrigerant expert
Donald Brown         Consultant                             Technical expert
Lily Hale            Operations Officer                     Financial management
Amanda Hagy          Team assistant                         Project management
Erik Pedersen                                    ENVMP      MP and halon expert
Yi Ling Liu                                                 Disbursement
Legal
Procurement
Env.
Social


Supervision/ICR
                     Lead Environmental
Carter Brandon                               EASCS          Project Management
                     Specialist
Helen Chan           Sr Operations Off.      EASRE          Project Management
Qing Wang            Environmental Spec.     EASRE          Environment
Ji Feng              Environmental Spec.     EASCS          Technical Expert
Martin Fodor         Environmental Spec.     EASRE          Environment
                     Financial Management
Yi Geng                                   EAPCO             Financial Management
                     Specialis
Xiaowei Guo          Sr Procurement Spec.    EAPCO          Procurement
Feng Ji              Operations Officer      EASRE          Project Management
Agustinus S. Kaber   Program Assistant       EASEN          Project Management
Erik Pedersen        Consultant              ENVMP          Environment
Neeraj Prasad        Sr. Operations Off.                    Project management


                                            36
Peishen Wang          Environmental Spec.    EASRE              Safeguard
Leon Chen             Consultant             EACCF              Technical Expert
Maoqi Zhang           Consultant             EASEN              Technical Expert


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                USD 000's (inc. travel and
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                              consultant costs)

Lending
               FY94                                                  211.12
               FY95                                                  537.71
               FY96                                                  103.88
                          Total:                                     852.71

Supervision/ICR
               FY96                                                  136.36
               FY97                                                  207.65
               FY98                                                  209.34
               FY99                                                  250.00
               FY00                                                  188.75
               FY01                                                  406.81
               FY02                                                  369.77
               FY03                              93                  239.93
               FY04                              56                  158.65
               FY05                              41                  141.71
               FY06                              36                  92.32
               FY07                              29                  50.91
                          Total:                                    2,481.20




                                            37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results 

In summary, the beneficiary survey concluded that joint efforts of the Multilateral Fund, the
World Bank, and the enterprises, made the ODS III a successful program, from which the
enterprises had upgraded their technology and management skills. Specific examples follow.

Mr Yu Jidong, representative of Ningbo Refrigeration Plant, recalled that his subproject was
approved at the 22nd ExCom Meeting in May 1997. The plant imported HCFC technology from
USA Blissfield. In November 2001, the plant successfully started new production of HCFC
based compressors and phased out CFC consumption. The plant was satisfactory with the
performance of the equipment and the improved safety/health conditions. With respect to
economic return, he reported that HCFC based production was more costly than CFC based
production, thus reducing their profit margin to some extent.

In introducing its subproject, Mr Wu Zhenjiang, representative of Ningbo Refrigeration Plant,
recalled the subproject was approved at the 28th ExCom Meeting in July 1999. The plant
imported HCBC-141b foaming machine from Italian OMS Company. In January 2003, the
plant successfully started new production, obtained TUV safety certificate, and phased out CFC
consumption. The plant was very much satisfactory with the imported technology and the
equipment, saying that their product quality was increased and their core competence improved.

In introducing its subproject, Mr. Chen Yumin, representative of Zhejiang Commercial Plant,
recalled the subproject was approved at the 28th ExCom Meeting in July 1999. The plant
imported HCFC technology from German HKT Company. However, due to the limited MLF
fund, the technology purchased from HKT was relatively outdated. The enterprise had to
upgrade it based on the local market demand. Since 2003, the enterprise has been able to
produce its own designed HCFC-22 compressor by using the imported equipment. Mr Chen
was satisfactory with the equipment (e.g. machinery center etc.), with which the plant improved
its product quality and profit margin. The following factors, as listed by Mr. Chen, contributed
to the project success, including timely support from the government and Hefei Research
Institute, establishment of a special project team at the plant, and sufficient counterpart funding.

Mr Wang Yue, representative of Shengzhou Foam Plant, thanked the SPEA, the World Bank,
and CEB for their assistance. He said that the plant had its management skill and core
competence improved. He reported that the plant solved technical problems by working closely
with the equipment supplier, and this was one key factor for the success.

Mr Yu Guanhua, representative of Yantai Moon Group, reported that the enterprise had
successfully completed two subprojects: 1) small NH3 Compressor; and 2) HCFC-141b rigid
foam. The enterprise was satisfactory with the imported technology and equipment. Ding
Wenjin, Representative of Zhejiang Chunhui, also said that the plant benefited from the
imported technology and equipment.

Mr Wang Shiguo, a senior engineer from Hefei Refrigeration Institute, expressed that i)
legislation of ODS management should be accelerated; and ii) EPBs, Quality Supervision
Bureaus, Custom Administration, and Industrial and Commercial Administration should work
together to supervise ODS stockpile and the price.



                                                38
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results 
 The ODS III completion workshop was held in Changchun, China on September 16, 2006 and
 was chaired by Mr. Wang Jian, Director of Air Pollution Control Department of the State
 Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA). The workshop were attended by the World
 Bank, government agencies, the Secretariat of the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol,
 Domestic Implementation Agencies (i.e. CEB, CIEC), Research Institutes, Industrial
 Associations, and representatives from beneficiary enterprises (list of participants attached
 below).

 Opening statements were made by Mr. Wen Wurui, Deputy Director of FECO, SEPA. He
 welcomed the meeting participants on behalf of the SEPA. He said that ODS III Program was
 an important part of China ODS Program. China had made significant achievements by phasing
 out 19,062 tons ODP. Facing challenges of illegal production, illegal trade and illegal
 consumption, Mr. Wen requested that all beneficiary enterprises not resume ODS consumption.
 Instead, they should make good use of the imported equipment financed with the MLF grant, so
 as to increase their profit and market share.

 In his opening address, Mr Lang Shengshuo, Deputy Secretary General of the Multilateral Fund,
 congratulated the World Bank, SEPA and the beneficiary enterprises on the successful
 completion of the program. He thanked the World Bank for its hard work, and for its assistance
 in strengthening China's capacity for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol. He
 suggested that i) China disseminate its successful experiences to other countries; and ii)
 enterprises should not go back to use ODS.

 Ms. Helen Chan, Senior Operations Officer (TTL) of the World Bank, explained that the ODS
 III program consisted of two components- one financed with the Multilateral Fund, the other
 (Technical Assistance) financed with USD 100,000 allocated from the Bank's own
 management fee, aiming to improve the DIA's capacity. She pointed out that implementation of
 the program was deeply influenced by China economic transition from 1994 until project
 completion. At the approval stage, most of the beneficiaries were state-owned enterprises, but
 later they underwent several rounds of change of ownership and management staff, resulting in
 inevitable delays. She summarized that i) as imported equipment and technology were imported
 into the Chinese enterprises, four years of implementation period for subprojects would have
 been more reasonable than two years as envisioned at the design stage; and ii) flexibility should
 have been taken into account in the design to avoid delays. These lessons and experience were
 taken into account in the design of China ODS IV, a sector based program which was
 introduced into China in 1997.

 Following the World Bank, FECO, China Everbright Bank and CIEC presented at the meeting
 respectively. Their comments were attached as Annex 7 and 8.

                                          List of Participants

Participants    Title                        Institutions                        Note
                                                                                 Governmental
Wen Wurui       Deputy Director General      FECO, SEPA
                                                                                 Agency
                                                                                 Governmental
Xiong Kang      Director                     FECO, SEPA
                                                                                 Agency



                                                  39
                                                                                         Governmental
Li Hongbing      Deputy Director            FECO, SEPA
                                                                                         Agency
                                                                                         Governmental
Jiao Ruojing     Senior Project Officer     FECO, SEPA
                                                                                         Agency
                                                                                         Governmental
Yi Xu            Project Officer            FECO, SEPA
                                                                                         Agency
                                                                                         Governmental
Liu Xiaochen     Project Officer            FECO, SEPA
                                                                                         Agency
                                                                                         Governmental
Yang Xiaohua     Project Officer            FECO, SEPA
                                                                                         Agency
                                            Air Pollution Control Department,            Governmental
Wang Jian        Director
                                            SEPA                                         Agency
Lang                                                                                     International
                 Deputy Secretary General   Multilateral Fund Secretariat
Shengshuo                                                                                Agency
                                                                                         International
Helen Chan       Senior Operation Officer   World Bank
                                                                                         Agency
                 Senior   Environmental                                                  International
Erik Pedersen                               World Bank
                 Engineer                                                                Agency
                                                                                         International
Martin Fodor     Environmental Specialist   World Bank
                                                                                         Agency
                                                                                         International
Feng Ji          Operations Officer         World Bank
                                                                                         Agency
                                                                                         International
Leon Chen        Consultant                 World Bank
                                                                                         Agency
Miao Peisong     General Manager            CIEC
Jiang Shijing    Senior Economist           China Everbright Bank                        DIA
Li Lin                                      China Everbright Bank                        DIA
                                                                                         Procurement
Rui Hong                                    CMEC
                                                                                         Agency
Wang Shiguo      Engineer                   Heifei General Research Institute
                                            China     Refrigeration    and    Air
Peng Boxuan
                                            conditioning Industry Association
Wang                                        China     Refrigeration    and    Air
Xunchang                                    conditioning Industry Association
                                            China Plastic Processing Industrial
Liao Zhengping
                                            Association
                                            China Household and             Electrical
Wang Lei
                                            Appliance Association
Subprojects implemented by CIEC
Fu Tingyun,                                 Henan Xinfei Electr. Co.
                                                                                         A-50-CIEC
Li Hongli
Yang Guoyou                                 Hangzhou Jihua                               A-59-CIEC


                                                 40
Lian Yungeng                               Putuo Zhujiajian Rubber Plastic        A-61-CIEC
Yin Youzhang                               Shenyin Polyurethane Xinzhuang         A-63-CIEC
Yu Guanhua                                 Yantai Moon Group (foam)               A-68-CIEC
Chen Yuming      Manager                   Zhejiang Com. Machinery                A-69-CIEC
Chen Xiaoyou     General Engineer          Jiangsu Taizhou Com. Ref               A-72-CIEC
Wu Zhengjiu                                Chengde Commercial Mach.               A-74-CIEC
Wu Heqin                                   Yueyang Hengli Air-Cool                A-75-CIEC
Min Jing                                   Wuhan Com. Machinery                   A-76-CIEC

Ge Zhenling      President                 Changzhou Huanfa                       A-83-CIEC

Lu Jianhua       General Manager           Quijing Plastic No.2 Plant             A-89-CIEC

Dong Taiwei      President                 Wuxian Polyurethane Foam Plant         A-91-CIEC

Subproject Implemented by CEB
Zhai Hongmei,                              Gaofeng                                A-04-CIB
Zhai Honghai
Wang Yongan      General Manager           Zhengzhou Huayuan                      A-05-CIB
Peng Jing                                  Huayi                                  A-08-CIB
Li Jiashun,      Director,                 Anhui Ref.                             A-11-CIB
Du Yuping        Financial Chief Officer
Gao Shuanliang   Director                  Beijing Ref. Machiner                  A-15-CIB
Wu Peiling                                 Wanbao                                 A-22-CIB
Tan Weiyuan                                Chongqing Gen. Mach. Fact              A-35-CIB
Liu Huasheng     Deputy Director           Zhenjiang Ref. Eq. Fact.               A-37-CIB
Xue Aiguo        Diretor                   Handan Plastics #8                     A-38-CIB
Yu Jidong                                  Ningbo Refr. Mach. Factory             A-46-CIB
Ding Wenjin      Manager                   Zhejiang Chunhui Co.                   A-48-CIB
Wu Yaokun                                  Guangzhou Ref. Mach.Fact.              A-49-CIB
Tu Xinping                                 Wuhan New World Ref. Ind.              A-51-CIB
Huang Deben                                Subei Ref. Mach. Factory               A-52-CIB
He Zhenliang,                              Aerosol umbrella project               A-56-CIB
                 General Manager
Guo Qilin
Wang Yu                                    Shengzhou Foam Plant                   A-87-CEB
                                           Shangling Electric Appliance (Group)   A-94-CIB
Xiang Guozhi
                                           Co. Ltd.




                                                41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR 

Summary of SEPA's ICR

Background
ODS III Project implemented by the World Bank is an important part of China ODS phase-out
program. It started in 1994 and comprised 94 subprojects. CIEC and CEB were local
implementation agencies while SEPA was in charge of coordination.

Achievement
With the World Bank's assistance and cooperation of line ministries, enterprises and financial
institutions, ODS III project was, on the whole, implemented smoothly and satisfactory results
were accomplished. Total 87 subprojects were completed.

Enterprises
Generally, enterprises were willing to participate in the ODS phase-out project. Though
implementation, enterprises have had their staff trained, strengthened its management capacity,
and obtained technology from advanced countries. On the other hand, they have also
contributed significant human resources and counterpart funding for the ODS III.

Generally, enterprises were willing to participate in the ODS phase-out project. Though
implementation, enterprises have had their staff trained, strengthened its management capacity,
and obtained technology from advanced countries. On the other hand, they have also
contributed significant human resources and counterpart funding for the ODS III.

Most enterprises evaluate their subprojects as very successful or quite successful. They also
have positive evaluation of ODS substitute technology. The quality of ODS free products, for
most enterprises reminded unchanged after conversion. For one third of the enterprises, the
quality of ODS free products have been improved to some extent. However, the conversion has
also brought negative impact on the beneficiaries. For over 80% enterprise, production cost has
increased on average by 8.5%. Profit for over half enterprises was reduced slightly.

Local implementation Agencies
CEB and CIEC were able to comply with the procedures and requirement of SEPA and the
World Bank. They kept close communication with SEPA, the World Bank, and beneficiary
enterprises. CEB and CIEC have also improved their management capacity through project
implementation.

PMO
During project implementation, PMOA has obtained great assistance from the World Bank. As
a result, PMO has strengthened its management capacity and attained hands-on experience in
different sectors. Enterprises, CEB and CIEC were laudatory of PMO's performance. Under
PMO's supervision, no beneficiary enterprises have been found to revert to ODS-based
production.

Lessons Learned
It is noted that implementation of ODS III subprojects was often delayed. The reasons are as
follows:



                                              42
Government Context. During project preparation, China was in the stage of being a planned
economy, so line ministries selected State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) as beneficiaries. Since
1995, China has being engaged in economy transformation. Many SOEs, due to their low level
management capacity and sales ability, encountered difficulties on selling their products,
leading to worsening financial status. In addition, complicate SOEs' ownership reform often
resulted in frequent change of management and staff. Given the vacancy or change of staff,
especially those staff who received oversea training, ODS subprojects were ignored.
Furthermore, some beneficiary enterprises were requested to relocate their plants in line with
new city master plans, which caused serious delays.

Financial issues. During the course of implementation, some enterprises were not able to
provide counterpart funds or even went to bankruptcy. So cancellation was unavoidable. Grant
for some subprojects was so insufficient that enterprises had to spend long time to mobilize
significant counterpart funds. All the factors contributed to delays.

Project Management. The management approach for subprojects was too complicated and
lacked of flexibility. Due to the rigid approach, implementation for some subproject was started
even one year after ExCom's approval.

Technology. Enterprises were not able to obtain suitable conversion technology from advanced
countries, or have to mobilize substantial counterpart funds for technology transfer.

Loss of Market. During the course of implementation, a few enterprises lose interests or
confidence to continue implementation because their products were not welcome to ever-
changing market.

Lessons for the future
    Projects should be implemented on country level, instead of subproject-by-subproject
       level. PMO should have been given more flexibility to attain better project
       management and coordination;
    Reliance on technical know-how and guidance of line ministries and sector associations
       is necessary;
    Financial situation and willingness of enterprises to participate in project should be
       carefully evaluated.
    At project preparation stage, it is important to assist enterprise in establishment of a
       project team and to provide enterprise management with necessary training;
    Implementation procedures are suggested to be simplified, where appropriate.

Financial institutions ought to have played a proactive role in project appraisal, management etc.




                                               43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments of China Everbright Bank

As an FA of ODS III project, CEB is satisfied with the implementing status of ODS III project
in various sides. The reasons are:
    1. The individual ODS III Projects of each sector were fully completed in December 2005
        on the schedule, and achieved the well results.
    2. During the implementation, in spite some subprojects were delayed, but it has not
        influenced the entire implementing-progress of the ODS III project as a whole.
    3. The entire implementation has been in compliance with Chinese Laws and the rules
        about foreign exchange management. The normalization of project implementing has
        been ensured.
    4. All the equipment procurement have obeyed the related Chinese procurement rules and
        the WB's guidelines and ensured procurements under the processes of equal right,
        impartiality and transparency.
    5. According to regulations and the commitments by ODS III projects, the base line
        equipment with ODS in production was destroyed after project completions. And the
        productions of ODS consumption were fully stopped for ever.
    6. After the non-ODS conversion completed, the project beneficiaries have achieved the
        normal production and realized the project objectives to phase out ODS consumption
        that stipulated in approved project summaries.

Lessons Learned from the Project Implementation.
Through dealing with the difficulties entered by the ODS III individual projects, CEB think that
some lessons and experiences learned from implementation are worth to absorb and will help
beneficiaries to successive implementing the projects in coming future. Major lessons and
experiences are as follows:

AImplementing System
  i. For this kind of projects, it is very important that central-government agencies and local
     government offices participate the project preparation and implementation, In project
     preparation stage, if getting the support of local government, the related conditions that
     are necessary for project implementing can been put into effect ASAP. The project
     implementation can been initialed earlier. In the medium term of project
     implementation, the project beneficiaries can get the supports from local government in
     coordinating related aspects and helping to solve some difficulties and improve project
     progress. After the project completion, the beneficiaries can quickly finish the
     necessary auditing procedures for instance, environmental evaluation etc and
     completed the project ASAP. Of the projects under CEB's supervision, some project
     had entered some difficulties and problems in implementation, since getting the
     supports from local government in time, the difficulties and problems were smoothly
     solved and then project implementing-progress could been improved continuously.
 ii. Greatly developing the advantages of FA to ensure the efficiency of project
     implementation. CEB as FA has many staff with rich experiences in project
     management, perfect management system in project pre-appraisal and implementation-
     supervising, multi-levels organization system with Head quarter & branches
     distributions, full and perfect agency networks and rich experiences in import and
     export settlement. These advantages guarantee the project implementation in
     compliance with related laws & regulations and also speed up the grant payment. We


                                              44
        think, in future project implementation, FA's these advantages should be more
        developed and these advantages as useful resources should be fully utilized.
   iii. The entire implementation of ODS-III projects under the supervision of CEB has
        obeyed the rules of equal right, impartiality and transparence. It has set a nice base for
        subproject beneficiaries to carry out project and get nice achievement.

BProject Aspect
    i.   The thought of project beneficiaries had been improved through the project
         implementation. In simultaneity of the implementing the conversion project, based
         on the market requirements, the beneficiaries have made sure their own market
         segmentation and decided the future productions. It not only creates successive
         developing conditions for beneficiaries but also rises up the internal motivity of the
         beneficiaries to speed up project implementation.
   ii.   At the initial stage of project implementation, the beneficiaries must set up a nice
         team with talent technicians and managers and make sure perfect tech-scheme, in
         order to guarantee project implementing smoothly and the practicability of products.
  iii.   The project procurements must strictly follow the regulations on the procurement
         guideline of the WB. It is not only the requirements but also the responsibility of
         project beneficiaries.
  iv.    The project management agencies and related government dept should offer nice
         service to project beneficiaries and coordinate related sides, in order to help
         beneficiaries solving difficulties and problems and to improve project
         implementation.

Conclusion
Generally, implementation of ODS III project, in China has stridden over 10 years. During the
10 years, Chinese economic and politic system has deeply entered into reform from planing
direction to market orientation. Under the impact of the reform, the implementation and
management of ODS III individual projects has become very complicated. For implementing
project smoothly and achieving the phase-out targets, SEPA, CEB and each project
beneficiaries have tried their best, started from zero, and make great effects. Until nowadays,
the project implementation has got great achievements and realized the ODS phase-out
objectives of individual projects. The achievements were got under the help and supervision of
MLF and the WB. We can say it is also the achievement of MLF and WB. In one words, under
the guidance of MLF and WB, we have confidence to complete the entire ODS III project on
time and continuously & successfully get more great achievement in ODS phase-out.

Comments of China International Economic Consultant.
ODS is an international corporation project, aiming at protecting ozone layer against ODS,
therefore protect the home of all the people---the earth and the health of all the people. It is a
great cause which will value all the offspring, we should take active part in it. From 1996,
CIEC, as the financial agency (FA) for ODS III project of World Bank, has joined in the job.
Under the perfect leadership of SEPA and World Bank, all projects have been finished after
several years. Now making a summary of these years, especially the experience and lessons, is
very necessary. It will benefit the following works and practice of ODS projects.

1. Status of projects in CIEC
     CIEC, from joining in ODS III in 1996, takes on 40 projects totally, there are 3
commercial refrigeration projects, 2 home refrigeration projects, and 35 foam projects. By the
end of 2005, the 40 projects were finished.


                                               45
2. Realizing the main aim of ODS III
     In taking the ODS III projects, According to the principle of ExComSEPA and World
Bank, firstly we declared to factories the great meaning of washing out ODS and protecting
environment, help them understand that ODS project contributes the environment of the earth
and the health of human being, and raised consciousness of them. Then we ask all completed
projects must reach the following four request:
     By updating the equipment and technique, factories changed Freon into non-ODS
        substance;
     Deeply disposing old ODS equipment according to PS request;
     Achieving the commitment that no any ODS will be used in future;
     Local SEPA branch will supervise the commitment.

3. Problem in implementation
      Whether SEPA, World Bank, or FA poured great strength into ODS III projects. But the
implementation speed of them is so slow that CIEC spent 8 years only 46 projects are
completed. The efficiency is fabulously low. Although the causes are many, but the main one
lies in factories themselves, for example:
      Faced perplexing ownership transformation, most factories didn't take importance on
          ODS projects;
      A lot of factories experienced terrible financial condition, and didn't take necessary
          self-financing fund. Some even suddenly shut down, leading to the stop of projects;
      Because of frequently being replaced of the factories leader, factories took a slow step
          on projects.
      According to our experience, we think that whether leaders of factories pay attention to
ODS project or not is a key factor influencing the speed of projects. But it's a pity that such
condition couldn't have a basic improvement before the ownership transformation of Chinese
enterprises is finished.
      CIEC has some projects cancelled due to the low quality of a few factories. Firstly they
          declared the ODS III projects by every possible effort and then suddenly give up it after
          approval from ExCom. How many work and time has been wasted to all our sides!

4. Suggestions
     Local government should participate in the management of ODS projects directly
     To factories, the effect of FA management is limited, and it is suggestion and advises at
most. Factories have the choice between acceptance and putting it on one side; In fact, the most
important crucial factor is their superior section in charge and local government, but there is a
lack of it, leading to no control on schedule of projects. If local government, such as local
SEPA branch, participates in the supervision and management to factories directly, the speed of
projects should be quickened greatly.

         Regulation and procedure may be predigested properly
     The regulation and procedure of ODS III are so strict and perplex that the condition will be
very terrible if factories were faced big business accident leading to the stop of projects. We
think it ought be if some factory has difficulty, other factory will replace it promptly under aim
of realizing ODS phase-out.

         FA should reinforce training toward factories
      We find that the factories that have formal and prompt project implementation are those
that their leaders of projects have a deep understanding of regulation and procedure of ODS III.
So we think although FA have a lot of things to do, the training to factories must be reinforced
in order to get twice the result with half the effort

                                                46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents 

Memorandum of the Director of ODS III
Grant Agreements
Grant Amendment


1.    Original CP and updated CP
2.    I&CR sector strategy
3.    MAC sector strategy
4.    Foam sector strategy
5.    Household refrigeration sector strategy
6.    Aerosol sector strategy
7.    Lists of project summaries of individual subprojects
8.    Lists of individual PCRs
9.    Draft MTRs
10.   Risk Assessment by Ma Zhong
11.   Maoqi's LCD study
12.   Technology study on HCFC 22?
13.   China ODS brochure
14.   MAC PCR under ODS IV
15.   ODS III completion workshop documentation in September 2006
16.   Photographs of enterprise visits




                                            47
Annex 10. Additional Annexes  

Annex 10.1 List of Subprojects under ODS III Program
                                          MPEC Approval     Subgrant                ODP
                             Subproject
      EnterpriseName                      date/ExCom mtg    Amount     ODS Used   Phase-out
                              Number
                                                 #           (USD)                  (MT)

 I. Foam(55 subprojects,
 including 5 cancelled)
 1. Shanghai #18 Plastic     A-01-CIB      Jul. 1994/13th   436,500     CFC12       200
 2. Beijing Foam Plastic     A-02-CIB     Dec. 1994/15th    698,400     CFC11       100
 3. Cangzhou # 2 Plastic     A-03-CIB     Dec. 1994/15th    382,200     CFC12       140
 4. Gaofeng PU Plastic F     A-04-CIB     Dec. 1994/15th    444,700     CFC11       180
 5. Henan Zhengzhou                                         259,000
 Plastic                     A-05-CIB     Dec. 1994/15th               CFC11/12     260
 6. Hebei Dongfeng Plastic   A-06-CIB     Dec. 1994/15th    260,500     CFC11       110
 7. Shanghai #6              A-18-CIB      Jul. 1994/13th   665,098     CFC11       105
 8. Lanzhou Plastic Pack     A-19-CIB     Dec. 1994/15th    215,400     CFC12       200
 9. Penglai PU Plant         A-28-CIB     Nov. 1995/18th    320,500     CFC11        70
 10. Liangzhu Foam P.P.      A-29-CIB      Jul. 1995/17th   162,800     CFC11       120
 11. Yifeng PU Plastics      A-30-CIB      Jul. 1995/17th   208,300     CFC11        60
 12. Hangzhou Foam                                          317,000
 Plastics                    A-31-CIEC    May 1996/19th                 CFC11        60
 13. Yinguang Plastics PL    A-32-CIEC    May 1996/19th     376,000     CFC11        85
 14. Zhenjiang #5 Plastic    A-34-CIB      Jul. 1995/17th   208,697     CFC11       150
 15. Handan #8 Plastics PL   A-38-CIB      Oct.1996/20th    265,000     CFC11       110
 16. Zibo Plastics #3 PLA    A-39-CIEC    May 1996/19th     249,000     CFC11       100
 17. Jinan Shiyan Plastic    A-41-CIB     May 1996/19th     209,300     CFC11        35
 18. Qinhuangdao Plastics    A-43-CIEC    May 1996/19th     370,000     CFC11        60
 19. Qingyang Plastics PL    A-44-CIEC    May 1996/19th     362,000     CFC11        90
 20. Wuxi Type Raw           A-54-CIEC    July 1998/25th    488,150     CFC11       231
 Material Plant
 21. Foshan Refrigeration    A-55-CIEC    Nov. 1998/26th    743,500     CFC11       120
 Equipment
 22. Chengdu Plastics #7     A-57-CIEC    Oct.1996/20th &   301,000     CFC11       120
                                           July 1998/25th

 23. Zhejiang Com. Ref.      A-58-CIEC    Mar. 1999/27th    140,468     CFC11        31
 Equipment



                                                48
24. Hangzhou Jihua Chem.    A-59-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   603,058     CFC11   111
25. Qingdao Com.            A-60-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   447,869     CFC11   58
Machinery Co.
26. Putuo Zhujiajian        A-61-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   525,483     CFC11   112
Rubber Plastic
27. Shanghai Haiou Elec.    A-62-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   261,052     CFC11   33
Appl.
28. Shenyin Polyurethane    A-63-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   536,403     CFC11   86
Xinzhuang
29. Jiangsu Haimen Foam     A-64-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   454,790     CFC11   73
Plant
30. Henan Huojia Huashi     A-65-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   583,186     CFC11   110
Co.
31. Chengdu Jinjiang Foam   A-66-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   554,470     CFC11   89
Gen.
32. Shanghai Gen. Mach.     A-67-CIEC   Nov. 1997/23rd   378,589     CFC11   88
Co. (foam)
33. Yantai Moon Group       A-68-CIEC   Nov. 1997/23rd   1,129,726   CFC11   463
(foam)
                            A-71-CIEC   July 1999/28th   149,195     CFC11   29
34. Wuhan Com Machinery
35. Jiangsu Taizhou Com.    A-72-CIEC   July 1999/28th   192,784     CFC11   28
Ref
36. Guandong Zhujiang       A-73-CIEC   July 1999/28th   581,230     CFC11   88
Ref. and A/C
37. Chengde Commercial      A-74-CIEC   July 1999/28th   829,980     CFC11   106
Mach.
38. Heilongjiang Com.       A-77-CIEC   July 1999/28th   411,858     CFC11   53
Installation
39. Handan Fuxing Jiahe     A-78-CIEC   Nov. 1999/29th   515,970     CFC11   137
Foam Plant
40. Shanghai Furong Food    A-81-CIEC   Nov. 1999/29th   139,379     CFC11   23
Machinery
41. Chengde Machinery       A-82-CIEC   Nov. 1999/29th   151,316     CFC11   20
Installation
                            A-83-CIEC   July 1999/28th   440,461     CFC11   71
42. Changzhou Huanfa Co.
43. Yangzhou Tongli         A-84-CIEC   Nov. 1999/29th   114,490     CFC11   15
Refrigeration
44. Shanghai Shenyin        A-86-CIEC   Mar. 1999/27th   473,480     CFC11   76
Baoshan
45. Shenzhou Foam Plant     A-87-CEB    Nov. 1999/29th   609,616     CFC11   135
46. Nantong Xingyuan        A-88-CIEC   July 2000/31st   510,860     CFC11   82
Foam Plant
                            A-89-CIEC   July 2000/31st   600,066     CFC11   99
47. Quijing Plastic No.2


                                             49
Plant
48. Wuxian Polyurethane       A-91-CIEC    July 2000/31st   498,400     CFC11    80
Foam Plant
49. Beijing Hangxing          A-92-CIEC    July 2000/31st   385,746     CFC11    61
Polyurethane
50. Beijing Qianjin           A-93-CIEC    July 2000/31st   427,793     CFC11    65
Polyurethane

Subtotal                                                                        5,126
II. Commercial
Refrigeration
1. Nanjing Ref. General       A-10-CIB    March 1995/16th   2,803,273   CFC12   255

2. Anhui Ref. Machinery       A-11-CIB    March 1995/16th   2,157,300   CFC12   171

3. Shanghai Ref.              A-12-CIB    March 1995/16th   2,628,700   CFC12   170
Machinery
4. Yantai Ref. Machine W      A-13-CIB    March 1995/16th   2,787,800   CFC12   240
5. Taizhou Commercial         A-14-CIB    March 1995/16th   2,713,600   CFC12   285
Mach.
6. Beijing Ref. Machinery     A-15-CIB    Dec. 1994/15th    3,005,000   CFC12   233

7. Chongqing Gen. Mach.       A-35-CIB    Oct. 1996/20th    2,632,000   CFC12   220
Fact
8. Zhenjiang Ref. Eq. Fact.   A-37-CIB    Oct. 1996/20th    3,022,285   CFC12   295

9. Tianjin Tian Shan Ref.     A-40-CIB    Oct. 1996/20th    2,256,000   CFC12   276
Eq. Co
10. Shanghai Gen. Mach.       A-42-CIB    Oct. 1996/20th    2,039,000   CFC12   209
Co.
11. Ningbo Refr. Mach.        A-46-CIB    May 1997/22nd     1,786,949   CFC12   171
Factory
12. Chongqing Bingyang        A-47-CIB    May 1997/22nd     1,805,370   CFC12   190
Refr.
13. Zhejiang Chunhui Co.      A-48-CIB    May 1997/22nd     3,200,394   CFC12   361
14. Guangzhou Ref.            A-49-CIB    May 1997/22nd     1,904,769   CFC12   190
Mach.Fact.
15. Wuhan New World           A-51-CIB    May 1997/22nd     1,459,871   CFC12   209
Ref. Ind.
16. Subei Ref. Mach.          A-52-CIB    May 1997/22nd     1,806,908   CFC12   171
Factory
17. Zhejiang Com.             A-69-CIEC    July 1999/28th   1,710,295   CFC12   252
Machinery
18. Yueyang Hengli Air-       A-75-CIEC    July 1999/28th   1,951,510   CFC12   220
Cool
19. Wuhan Com.                A-76-CIEC    July 1999/28th   1,457,583   CFC12   104



                                                50
Machinery
Subtotal                                                                         4,221.1

III. Household
Refrigeration(14
subprojects, including 3
cancelled)
1. Changling Regr.           A-07-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   827,400      CFC12       70
2. Huayi Electrical Appl.    A-08-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   1,327,000    CFC12       60
3. Shanghai Shuanglu Elec.   A-09-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   897,692      CFC12       70
4. Shanghai Shangling        A-20-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   1,287,200    CFC12      108
5. Shanghai Ref.             A-21-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   1,241,600    CFC12      100
Compressor
6. Wanbao Elec. App.         A-22-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   1,319,200    CFC12       80
7. Changling Foam            A-27-CIB    Nov. 1995/18th   2,062,000   CFC11/12    516
8. Changfeng Baoan           A-33-CIEC   Oct. 1996/20th   894,150     CFC11/12     65
Ind.Co.Ltd
9. Huayi Foam                A-36-CIB    May 1996/19th    972,490      CFC11      180
10. Henan Xinfei Electr.                                  1,556,490    CFC11
Co.                          A-50-CIEC   Nov. 1997/23rd                           375
11. Shangling Electric       A-94-CEB    July 2001/34th   1,400,000   CFC11/12
Appliance (Group) Co. Ltd.                                                        174

Subtotal                                                                         2,477.4

Cancellation(3)                                                                   679
Subtotal(adjusted after
cancellation)                                                                    1,798



IV. Mobile Air
Conditioning
1. Shanghai Ek Chor          A-23-CIB    Jul.1995/17th    933,000      CFC12      361
2. Shanghai Auto Air Co.     A-24-CIB    Nov. 1995/18th   1,642,300    CFC12      361
3. Yueyang Hengli AC         A-25-CIB    Nov. 1995/18th   1,786,000    CFC12      434
                                                          2,009,210
4. Guangzhou Haohua Auto     A-26-CIB    Nov. 1995/18th                CFC12      274

Subtotal                                                                         1,430



VI. Aerosol
1. Zhongshan Fine Chem.      A-16-CIB    Jul. 1994/13th   1,310,500    CFC12     4,067

2. Fujian Aerosol Umbrella   A-56-CIB    Mar.1998/24th    547,675      CFC12     1,220
project

Subtotal                                                                         5,287


                                              51
VII. Halon
1. Tongxiang Chemical             A-17-CIB        Jul. 1994/13th         104,000        H1211           1,200

Subtotal                                                                                                1,200
ODS III total approved
by MPEC (95)                                                                                         20,173.7

Cancellations (8)                                                                                    1,111.3
ODS III approved by
Bank (87)                                                                                            19,062.4



Annex 10.2 List of Eight Cancelled Projects under ODS III Program
                                             Subproject        MPEC Approval                    ODP Phase-
             EnterpriseName                                                        ODS Used
                                              Number           date/ExCom mtg #                  out (MT)

  1. Shangdong Tianhua Plastic               A-70-CIEC          July 1999/28th      CFC11          86

  2. Handan Huisheng Foam Plant              A-79-CIEC          Nov. 1999/29th      CFC11          129

  3. Tongxiang Shule Plastic Plant/_1        A-80-CIEC          Nov. 1999/29th      CFC11          80

  4. Handan Fuyang Chemical Co               A-85-CIEC          Mar. 1999/27th      CFC11          70

  5. Jiantan Tiaoxi PU Foam Plant            A-90-CIEC          July 2000/31st      CFC11          68

  6. Shuanglu Electr. Appl. Co.              A-45-CIB           Oct. 1996/20th      CFC11          320

  7. Changhe Group Co., Ltd.                 A-53-CIEC          July 1998/25th     CFC11/12        139

  8. Shangling Chang-An (Yuandong)                              Nov. 1997/23rd     CFC11/12        220




                                                          52
Map ­ ODS-III Project




                        1
