Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
AL -3Go 94-11-11:
Reqr No. 12271-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHLNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1993
1MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12271 KO
Type: SAR
Country Department I
East .sia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(July 1993)
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 - W785
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
EA       -  Environmental Administration
EFB      -  Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD     -   Education Loan Projects Division
EMn      -  Environmental Management Bureau
GERI     -  Genetic Engineering Research Institute
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidcing
KAIST    -  Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KAITECH  -  Korea Academy of Industrial Technology
KIMM     -  Korea Institute of Machinery and Metals
KORDI    -  Korea Ocean Research and Development Institute
KRISS    -  Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science
KWAIST   -  Kwangju Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology
MOE      -  Ministry of Education
MOEN     -  Ministry of Environment
MOHSA    -  Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOST     -  Ministry of Science and Technology
NIER     -  National Institute of Environmental Research
O&M      -  Operations and Maintenance
OSROK    -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR      -  Project Completion Report
PPAR     -  Project Performance Audit Report
R&D      -  Research and Development
S&T      -  Science and Technology
SERI     -  Systems Engineering Research Institute
SME      -  Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE      -   Statements of Expenditure
TAP      -  Technology Advancement Project
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...... . .. ..                                   iii
I. ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS AND POLICIES .1
A. Introduction .
B. Institutional and Legal Framework.                                  2
C.  Environmental Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
D. Environmental Research.                                             4
E.  Environmental Role of the Project Institutions . . . . . . . . . . 6
F. Bank's Role in Technology Advancement and Education  . . . . . . . 8
II. THE PROJECT .10
A. Origin of the Project .10
B. Project Objectives and Rationale .10
C. Project Design and Description .11
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A.    Costs  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  16
B.    Financing  .   .   .   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    18
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
D. Environmental Impact .23
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................... . 23
A. Benefits ............................ . 23
B. Risks ............................. . 23
V. ACREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............... . 23
The report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during March 1993 and an appraisal mission consisting of Mr. W.E. Rees
(mission leader), and Messrs. S.Z. Sung, V.G. Desa and I. Irvine
(consultants), which visited Korea during July 1993. Peer reviewers were
Messrs. L. Morrell (EAlIN), N. Corwell (EA1PH) and J. Fritz (ASTEN). The
report has been endorsed by Messrs. J. Shivakumar, Chief, EA1PH, and C.
Madavo, Director, EAM.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Proje..t Costs by Comiponent  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  . . . . .      18
3.3    Financing  Plan      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .19
3.4  Summ-ry of Proposed Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . .22
ANNEXES
1.  Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Environment
2.  Summary of Overseas Training and Visiting Experts
3. Chart - Organization of the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology
4.  Chart - Organization of the Korea Academy of Industrial Technology
5.  Chart - Organization of the Korea Research Institute of Standards and
Science
6. Chart - Organization of the Korea Ocean Research and Development
Institute
7.  Chart - Organization of the Systems Engineering Research Institute
8. Chart - Organization of the Kwangju Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology
9.  Chart - Organization of the Korea Institute of Machinery and Metals
10.  Chart - Organization of the Genetic Engineering Research Institute
11. Detailed Project Costs by Component and Category
12. Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
13. Implementation Schedule
14. Supervision Plan
15. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
16. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAI?



- iii -
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower           : Republic of Korea
Beneficiary        : Not applicable
Amount             : US$90 million equivalent
Terms              : Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description      : The objective of the project is to strengthen:  (a)
selected national research institutes to identify and
adequately address environmental issues and to undertake
environmental R&D activities; and (b) the Ministry of
Environment's policy and planning role. The projecc
would include specialized equipment, to be financed by
the Bank (baseline cost, US$80.8 million) to assist in
strengthening the R&D capacity of eight research
Institutes and improve MOEN's ability to carry out
policy-oriented research. The Government would finance
complementary inputs (US$24.4 million) relating to making
the equipment operational and monitoring it thereafter,
namely, local transportation and installation costs, O&M
and consumables. The project would also include overseas
training, visiting experts and library materials,
(US$10.0 million), and civil works (US$14.3 million).
Benefits and
Risks            : The project would enhance the capacity of selected
national research institutes to identify environmental
problems and to undertake environmental R&D. This would
result in a better understanding of the techlriological
aspects of environmental problems, improved methods of
measuring and monitoring key environmental indicators and
more environmentally sound production processes. The
project would also result in MOEN being strengthened in
its policy and planning role which would lead to improved
environmental policy formulation and implementation.
There are no major risks associated with the project.



- iv -
Proiect Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
-(US$ million)------
Ministry of Environment                     0.6         2.0         2.6
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology                   5.5         22.9       28.4
Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology                               5.8         20.2       26.0
Korea Research Institute of
Standards and Science                    4.9         10.7       15.6
Korea Ocean Research and
Development Institute                    2.6         10.0       12.6
Systems Engineering Research
Institute                                2.5         10.1       12.6
Kwangju Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology                3.7          7.7       11.4
Korea Institute of Machinery
and Metals                               6.8          6.4       13.2
Genetic Engineering Research
Institute                                1.9          5.2        7.1
Baseline Cost                              34.2        95.3      129.5
Contingencies
Physical                                 3.4          9.5       12.9
Price increase                           5.5          8.1       13.6
Subtotal                              8.9         17..6      26.5
Total Project Cost/8l                       i431        112.9       M4
Financing Plan:                             Local      Forein      Total
-(US$ million)-------
Government                                 43.1        22.9       66.0
IBRD                                         -         90.0       90.0
Total                                                         156.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                             1994   1995   1996   1297   1998
Annual                             9.0   17.0   34.0   22.0    8.0
Cumulative                         9.0   26.0   60.0   82.0   90.0
/a Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$1.7 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable.
Povertv Category:   Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 25205



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS AND POLICIES
A. Introduction
1.1       Among the consequences of Korea's rapid industrialization has been
the increasing degradation of the environment. Air, water and noise pollution
are major problems. Waste disposal, in densely populated Korea, is becoming a
critical concern.Y  There is also an increasing concern to develop more
efficient methods of production to conserve natural resources and reduce
pressures on the environment. The Government has responded to the emerging
environmental problems by strengthening the ir.stitutional and legal framework
so as to address these problems more effectively. In 1990, the existing
Environmental Agency was upgraded to the Ministry of Environment and new basic
legislacion was introduced (para. 1.4). Prosecutions of environmental
offenders are being pursued and the principle of "polluter pays" is being
enforced.
1.2       Strengthening the Government's institutional and legal framework is
an important part of the strategy to address environmental problems. Equally
important is the need for improved inderstanding of the scientific and
technical nature of these problems   This includes a better understanding of
basic scientific relationships as well as improved methods of measuring
aspects of environmental degradation and more effective monitoring
arrangements. In these areas, the universities are playing an increasingly
important role. Research programs in the natural sciences are placing greater
emphasis on environmental concerns and teaching programs are increasing their
environmental focus. Engineering faculties are placing more emphasis on
research and teaching in environmental technology.
1.3       Complementing the work of the universities are the national
research institutes. There are about 15 such institutes, mainly under the
authority of the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST). They were
established in the 1960s and 1970s to provide public sector leadership in key
areas of industrial R&D. However, with large-scale private firms currently
accounting for more than 70% of total R&D expenditures in Korea, the research
institutes are now focusing on non-commercially oriented applied research and
in research support and technical. assistance to small and medium enterprises
which lack the resources to undertake R&D activities. Among the areas of
rising interest to the research institutes is the development of technology to
improve environmental measurement and monitoring, environmentally compatible
1/   Environmental problems, although severe, are showing some improvement in
certain areas. For example, the concentration of sulphur dioxide in
Seoul decreased from 0.056 ppm to 0,043 ppm between 1985 and 1991, and
in Pusan, from 0.047 ppm to 0.038 ppm in the same period. Water quality
in the Han River improved by about 9% and in the Nakdong River by 17%
during 1985-90. On the other hand, domestic solid waste in Korea
increased by 25% during 1987-90 and industrial waste by 52% in the same
period.



- 2 -
products, environmencally sound production processes, training of industry
personnel in these areas, etc.
B. Institutional and Legal Framework
1.4       'rom modest beginnings, Korea has developed a sophisticated and
comprehensive framework of environmental institutions and legislation. The
creation of the Pollution Control Division in the Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs (MOHSA) in 1973 was followed by its upgrading (within MOHSA) to
the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) in 1977. The EM4B had divisions for
environmental planning, air and water quality. This was followed in 1978 by
the Environmental Preservation Law, the first major envircnmental statute in
Korea. This law introduced a number of important regulatory devices such as
the promulgation of environmental standards, environmental monitoring,
environmental impact assessments for new projects, emission standards and
control, etc. To strengthen implementation of the law, the EMB was upgraded
in 1980 to the Environmental Administration (EA) with the status of an
independent agency under MOHSA. Also in 1980, six regional environmental
monitoring offices were set up under the EA.
1.5       The increasing complexity of environmental issues and the growing
sensitivity to them in the 1980s led the Government to conclude that existing
legislation needed to be broadened and its implementation strengthened. This
resulted in 1990 in the upgrading of the EA into the cabinet-level Ministry of
Environment (MOEN) ane, ir 1991, in the introduction of new basic legislation
(the Basic Environmental rolicy Law). This was supported by separate laws
dealing with specific problems such as air preservation, water preservation,
noise control, hazardous substance control, solid waste management, marine
pollution, etc. Enactment of this legislation has given the Government a
stronger mandate to address a broad range of environmental issues. The
legislation is also subject to periodic review and has already been revised
with regard to solid waste and marine pollution, and natural environment
preservation.
1.6       The key role in monitoring environmental performance and enforcing
the regulations lies with the Ministry of Environment. MOEN also has a policy
and planning role which covers the formulation of comprehensive environment
plans and policy formulation in respect of air and water quality, waste
management, environmental impact assessment and natural resource conservation.
MOEN also has overall responsibility for carrying out environmental impact
assessments. Technical support is provided by the Engineering and Technology
Development Bureau of MOEN (Annex 1). Three technical bureaus are responsible
for the management of air quality, water quality and waste management. The
bureaus are responsible for implementing quality preservation plans and
setting environmental standards. They oversee the work of the six regional
environmental offices of MOEN, which are responsible for ongoing monitoring
activities, collection and analysis of statistics, oversight of waste
processing facilities, etc. The research arm of MOEN is the National
Institute of Environmental Research (NIER), whose activities are described in
more detail in para. 1.15. Until 1991, NIER was responsible for training
environmental personnel, mainly for MOEN's regional offices and for local



authorities. At the end of 1991, NIER's training department was reorganized
as a separate Training Institute for Environmental Officials.91
1.7       Under the jurisdiction of MOEN are several other agencies.  The
Central Environmental Disputes Coordination Commission coordinates
investigations into environmental disputes and the assessment of damages
carried out by the regional commissions (para 1.8). The Korea Resources
Recovery and Reutilization Corporation is responsible for the collection and
treatment of recyclable waste, technology to improve such treatment,
reutilization of waste products (paper, oil, rubber, etc.) and the operation
of a waste prod;tcts management fund. The Environmental Management Corporation
builds and operates industrial waste and garbage treatment facilities and
landfills. It also provides technical support for the design and construction
of local treatment facilities an6 helps to finance these facilities through a
fund which receives charges made against industry for the discharge of
pollutants above permissible levels.
1.8       In June 1992, the Government decided to decentralize a number of
monitoring and enforcement responsibilicies to the 14 municipal and provincial
governments outside Seoul. The latter are now responsible for guidance and
inspection of firms, issuance of permits and registration of pollutant-
discharging firms, levying and collection of discharge taxes and negligence
fines, and closing down repeat offenders. MOEN retains central authority for
environmental impact assessments and, through its regional offices, local
responsibility for monitoring air, water and soil quality and for the
registration of toxic chemical manufacturers. The decentralized activities
will bs carried out by the municipal/provincial Departments of Environmental
Protection, which already exist. However, the latter are being reinforced by
over 1,500 new environmental personnel to be allocated to the local
authorities. Fourteen local Environmental Disputes Coordination Commissions
with membership representing the public and private sectors and environmental
groups, adjudicate local environmental matters, including appeals against
charges and fines, the enforcement of legislation, etc. The commissions'
decisions are binding pending appeals to the Ministry of Justice.
C. Er.vironmental Policies
1.9       The overall thrust of Korea's environmental polic.es is highlighted
in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1991-96), which devotes an entire chapter to
environmental issues. A major objective of the Plan is to raise environmental
standards to the level of the advanced industrial countries in three major
areas - water quality, solid waste disposal and air quality. The present
system of water quality management, which is defined in terms of
administrative districts, will be modified to encompass four major river areas
subdivided into 11 quality control areas. This will permit water quality to
2/   The Institute has a staff of 35 which is supplemented by guest
lecturers, mainly from the universities. In 1991 environmental training
was provided to 3,293 persons from the public and private sectors.
Courses covered such topics as analysis, testing end public policy
monitoring.



- 4 -
be handled on a functional rather than an administrative basis. Water quality
will be raised through doubling the sewerage treatment rate to 65% which will
entail the construction of 75 new human waste treatment plants by 1996.
Industrial and livestock pollution will be reduced through the construction of
128 and 32 wastewater treatment plants respectively.
1.10      Solid waste disposal capacity will be expanded through the
establishment of 38 million m2 of landfill, which will be designed
specifically to curb hazardous effects such as groundwater pollution.
However, in order to reduce the demand for landfills in a land-scarce country,
increasing emphasis will ba placed on reuse, recycling and incineration.
Reuse is being encouraged through the introduction of advance deposits to
ensure that the producers of toxic or nondegradable products (e.g. tires)
finance their reuse or disposal.1 To increase recycling of domestic solid
waste, the recycling campaign for households will be strengthened through the
introduction of a waste information system. Incineration facilities will be
expanded through the construction of 51 incinerators of 200 tcns,'day capacity.
*.11      To reduce air pollution, vehicle emissions standards will be
rigorously enforced and this will be enhanced by making the use of unleaded
gaso'line compulsory. The use of liquid natural gas will be expanded beyond
Seoul to all major cities and industrial areas by increasing the supply from
2.3 million tons/year (1990) to 6.6 million tons/year by 1996. Oil refineries
will be encouraged to expand desulpherization facilities and the sulphur
content for light oils will be reduced from 0.4% to 0.2% and for heavier oils
from 1.6% to 1% by 1996.
1.12      To reinforce the above measures, a number of other actions will be
undertaken. The "polluter pays" principle will be strengthened through the
introduction of advanced deposits (para. 1.10) and raising the pollution
excise tax on users of environmentally harmful substances. The introduction
of the environmental-mark (E-mark) system will encourage firms to produce more
envirnnmentally-sound products. The scope and types of projects requiring
environmental impact assessments will be increased. A long-term environmental
science and technology plan will be developed to ensure that a comprehensive
approach is taken to the scientific study of environmental problems and the
development of appropriate technology. Finally, Korea is establishing a
strong basis for international environmental cooperation through participation
in the Montreal Protocol (ozone layer conservation), the Basel Agreement
(toxic waste transfer), the Convention on Climate Change and the Biodiversity
Treaty. Recently, Korea has also joined its North East Asian neighbors in
drafting a wide-ranging plan to combat environmental degradation.
D. Environmental Research
1.13      Overall environmental research priorities are defined within the
context of the national Five Year Plan (para 1.9). Thev are also defined
within MOST's long term science and technology (S&T) plan to year 2000 in
3/   These deposits are paid into a waste products management fund (para
1.7).



which environmental topics form a subset within overall S&T strategies. The
core of the S&T plan is the Highly Advanced New Technology Project which
focuses on 11 areas of high technology-intensive research and development,
with special emphasis on export potential. One priority area is environmental
technology development with a strong focus on pollution control technology.
These overall plans provide the macro-framework of policies and priorities
from which ministries and individual institutions define their own research
activities. Several ministrias play a key incermediate role in reviewing
institutioral research programs - the Ministry of Education (MOE) for the
universities, MOST for the majority of the national research institutes4 and
MOEN for NIER. A recent decision has been made to transfet responsibility for
the environmental technology part of the Highly Advanced New Technology
Project from MOST to MOEN. Within individual institutions, internal
procedures for reviewing research priorities and programs may differ somewhat
but usually involve a high-level research review committee, reporting to the
institution's head, who has the final responsibility for approval. The flow
of information through the hierarchy of institutions from national plans to
individual institutes is quite effective in Korea and has resulted in the
broad range of S&T research efforts being generally relevant to the country's
overall development objectives. This has undoubtedly made a substantial
contribution to Korea's rapid industrialization.
1.14      Environmental research in Korea is carried out in a broad range of
institutions - in university departments of natural science and engineering,
in the agricultural and veterinary colleges, in a number of national research
institutes and in the major private sector research institutes, and in the
Ministry of Environment. While there are no formal demarcation lines between
the research activities of the different institutional groups, particular
fields of specialization can be discerned. Much basic research in
environmental science is done in the university departments of natural science
and aims at a better understanding of basic scientific relationships bearing
on environmental problems. The departments of engineering have a greater
focus on applied science and the development of technology in crucial areas
such as pollution control and industrial waste managemLnt. The agricultural
and veterinary colleges concentrate on a range of research topics relevant to
rural environmental problems, such as soil pollution from animal waste. A
number of national research institutes, mainly under the jurisdiction of MOST,
are expanding their environmental role. Increasing emphasis is being given to
the development of pollution contiol technology, low pollution/ecologically
sustainable production processes and improved environmental measurement
techniques. Outreach programs to assist small and medium enterprises to
address environmental problems are also being expanded by the institutes. The
environmental activities of the major private sector res-arch institutes
reflect particular industry problems, e.g. reducing automobile exhaust
emissions, waste water treatment, etc.
4/   For a description of the role of MOE and MOST in reviewing institutional
research programs, see: Staff Appraisal Report, Korea Universities
Science and Technology Research Project, IBRD Report No. 8205-KO, April
23, 1990, pp. 3-6.



- 6 -
1.15      The Ministry of Environment has an important, though largely
indirect, influence on overall environmental research through its policy
formulation role. As new regulations in areas such as air, water and soil
pollution, hazardous waste disposal, etc. are introduced and a higher
standards of compliance are mandated, new demand is generated in the
eikvironm.atal research community for research into such topics as pollutant
traxisfer phenomena, more accurate measurement of pollutant levels, improved
environment-frier.dly technology, and so on. Complementing MOEN's policy
formulation and regulatory roles is the National Institute of Environmental
Research. NIER's research priorities are set by MOEV's Executive Committee,
chaired by the Vice-Minister, in consultation with other relevant ministries,
especially MOST, The latter also finances some of NIER's research programs'.
NIER has a staff of 184 including 99 researchers supported by 45 technical
staff. About 90% of the research staff have graduate degrees. About 60
contract research staff, drawn mainly from the universities, are also employed
by NIER. Research staff are employed mainly in the four research departments
- air quality, water quality, waste management and environmental health.
There are also two specialized laboratories conducting research into
automotive emissions and lake water quality. NIER also acts as a national
clearing house on environmental information and promotes international
cooperation activities.
1.16      The dissemination of environmental research results is enhanced by
the strong channels of communication within the environmental research
community in Korea. This community is served by some 20 professional
associations ranging from the specific, e.g. the Korea Society of Waste
Management to the more general, such as the Korea Society of Biotechnology and
Bioengineering. These associations are linked at the national level through
the Korea Research Council on Environmental Sciences. The Council was
established in 1987 to serve as an information exchange among the professional
associations but has gained in influence and now serves as a source of advice
to the Government on environmental policies. The Council has a formal annual
meeting but sponsors more frequent meetings of its topical committees
(environmental health, air quality, etc.). There is also a strong tradition
within the scientific community to publish research results in international,
national and local journals, and environmental scientists and technologists
are significant participants. Symposia on environmental topics are held
regularly and published proceedings are increasingly available. Dissemination
also takes place through individuals participating in cooperative research
programs such as the university researchers contracted to work in NIER and in
the cooperative research projects involving the universities and the national
research institutes. The latter sometimes include researchers from the
private sector.
E. Environmental Role of the Project Institutions
1.17      The role of MOEN has been described above in paras. 1.6-1.7.  The
eight national research institutes, also being assisted under the project,
have broad ranging functions within the general field of industrial technology
development. But with increasing national priority being given to addressing
environmental problems, the institutes are becoming increasingly active in the
development of environmental technology and in the provision of environmental



- 7 -
services to industry. The Korea Ocean Research and Development Institute
(KORDI) carries out marine environmental impact assessments for energy,
industrial and mineral projects with special emphasis on marine pollution and
the effect on marine life, especially fisheries. KORDI also monitors coastal
pollution and studies its evolution, and carries out sedimentation studies.
Measurements and standards relating to chemical analysis of coastal waters and
the calibration of oceanographic research equipment are also the
responsibility of KORDI. Marine resource surveys and modelling of pollutant
and sediment transport, damage assessment, thermal diffusion and morphological
changes are also carried out. The main focus of the environmental activities
of the Korea Academy of Industrial Technology (KAITECH) lies in the provision
of R&D services aimed at improving the environmental performance of industry.
R&D efforts are concentrated on improving the performance of waste treatment
facilities, especially incinerators, improving measurement technology for
pollutant emissions and reducing noise and vibration. Research is also
carried out into improving specific technologies such as air filters and into
more generalized technologies such as the recovery of waste products suitable
for recycling. KAITECH plays an important environmental performance testing
and inspection role related to industrial facilities.
1.18      The R&D activities of the Korea Institute of Machinery and Metals
(KIMM) focus on the reduction of engine emissions, low vibration/low noise
technology, improved incineration of difficult wastes and heat energy
conservation technology. KIMM also carries out technology commercialization
ventures in coordination with industry. The latter include air pollution
prevention facilities and performance test technologies. The Korea Research
Institute of Standards and Science (KRISS) is the central authority of the
national standards and measurement system and as such plays a crucial role in
environmental management. KRISS sets standards for air, water and noise
pollution, calibrates measuring instruments and publishes certified reference
materials for the guidance of the public and private sectors. The R&D
activities of KRISS emphasize improvements in measurement technology including
the design of more accurate calibration equipment and the development of
chemical tests which serve as the basis for improved standards of air and
waste quality. The Genetic Engineering Research Institute (GERI) was
established to develop R&D capability in biotechnology and as such carries out
important environment-related functions. These include research into
microbial strain development for the degradation of pollutants, biodegradation
of pesticides by mixed cultivation of bacteria, ethanol production from
biomass, biodegradation of wastes, development of microbial insecticides as
substitutes for chemical ones and the development of non-toxic biofungicides.
GERI maintains close relations with other research institutes and the
universities and has established a genetic resource center, including a gene
bank, to service these institutions.
1.19      The Systems Engineering Research Institute (SERI) provides national
systems engineering and software development capacity in support of a range of
industrial fields, meteorology, oceanography, aerospace, etc. An important
function is the development of an environmental monitoring capability. This
includes improvements in weather forecasting, remote sensing measurements of
major air pollutants and image processing of satellite data to determine water
quality, especially in the major reservoirs and river systems. The Korea



Advanced Institute of Technology (KAIST) is one of Korea's major teaching and
research institutions in science and technology. Within a broad range of
research activities, environmental topics are increasing rapidly in
importance. Specific environmental research projects which were valued at
less than US$0.1 million in 1989 had increased to US$2.6 million in 1991.
This represents an increase from less than 1% to about llX of KAIST's overall
research program. The major areas of focus for KAIST's environmental research
efforts are noise and vibration control technology, advanced wastewater
treatment and solid waste disposal technologies, air pollution control
technology, clean industrial technologies, global environmental impact, etc.
The Kwangju Advanced Institute of Science and Technologv (KWAIST) is being
developed as a regional campus of KAIST which will become eventually an
autonomous institution. It will have five departments, including a department
of environmental science and engineering. The latter will have a strong focus
on regional environmental concerns in agriculture and on biotechnology.
F. Bank's Role in Technology Advancement and Education
1.20      The Bank has provided support in several areas of technology
development, starting in 1979 with assistance for developing electronics
technology. Support has also been given to strengthening technology-related
small and medium enterprises and to financing risky technology-intensive R&D
projects. More recently, three technology advancement projects have provided
assistance for selected national research institutes to strengthen their
capacity to carry out research and development activities in key technology-
intensive fields. Some of the institutions assisted under these projects will
also be supported under the proposed project (KAIST, KRISS, KAITECH and GERI).
1.21      The first Technology Advancement Project (Ln. 3037-KU) focused on
strengthening industrial R&D capacity in three national research institutes,
mainly in the electrical and mechanical sectors. Special emphasis was placed
on improving advice and technical services to SMEs. The project was
implemented successfully and closed on schedule. A project completion report
(PCR) is currently under preparation. The Second Technology Advancement
Project (Ln. 3202-KO) is helping to upgrade R&D capacity in four national
research institutes with a focus on biotechnology, energy and natural resource
development. The project is assisting also in strengthening the national
standards network through upgrading measurement technology and providing
technical services to industry. The Third Technology Advancement Project (Ln.
3315-KO) covers three institutes and is helping to strengthen industrial R&D,
enhance the development and application of industrial standards and strengt'an
joint research activities in basic science. Both ongoing projects are being
implemented satisfactorily.
1.22      To complement direct assistance and financial and institutional
support for technology development, the Bank has strongly supported the
development of science and technical education. Bank lending has been
consistent with Korea's needs and priorities in education and has closely
paralleled the increasing sophistication of Korean industry. It was
recognized that the restructuring of industry towards more skill-intensive,
high-technology production would require the continuous expansion and
upgrading of technical skills. Thus as industry developed towards greater



skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to education moved from support for
craftsman and technician training through professional engineering education
to graduate engineering programs and associated research activities.
1.23      The Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits, focused on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and post-secondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The reports also concluded that future projects
would also benefit from: (a) advanced project preparation before approval; (b)
improved local management procedures to expedite approval; and (c) greater
focus on policy analysis and evaluation. These lessons were built into the
two subsequent operations which were policy-oriented sector loans.
1.24      The first education sector loan (Ln. 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and institu-
tional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan (Report No.
7252, May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learned were: (a) a
stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to successful
implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker
and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the
additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient
implementation.
1.25      The second education sector loan (Ln. 2427-KO), which incorporated
these lessons, assisted in supporting improvements in graduate education in
science and engineering, upgrading secondary school and college science
programs, expanding graduate research programs, improving sector management
and manpower monitoring and strengthening the financial base of private
educational institutions. Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it
closed on schedule on June 30, 1989. The PCR for the loan (Report No. 9569,
May 17, 1991) concludes that its objectives were largely met. Policy and
institutional improvements of particular relevance to science education were
introduced in relation to accreditation of colleges of natural science and
science education departments, upgrading and expanding staffing of these
institutions and the planning of facilities and equipment; at the secondary
level, a new experimentation-oriented science curriculum was introduced, a
system to monitor student achievement in science developed, new examination
and college admission procedures introduced and science teachers upgraded
through in-service training.
1.26      In recent projects, the Bank is continuing its emphasis on
improving the quality of science and technical education and strengthening
Si   The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector under the first
five lending operations is documented in the OED report titled Review of
the Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea
(Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).



- 10 -
scientific and technological research in the universities. The Science
Education and Libraries Computerization Project (Ln. 3468-KO) aims at ,aLsing
the quality of science education programs in the secondary schools and
universities and improving access to information of students, faculty and
researchers. Recognition of the importance of the training of craftsmen,
which occupy the base of the technical skills pyramid, is found in two
vocational education projects (Lns. 3314-KO and 3469-KO) which are improving
the quality of vocational education in several hundred vocational high
schools. The Universities Science and Technology Research Project (Ln. 3203-
KO) is assisting about 50 universities to broaden and deepen their basic
research programs in priority fields of science and technology.
Implementation of the four projects is proceeding satisfactorily. The
increasing priority being given by the Government to addressing environmental
issues is being assisted under the recently-approved Environmental Research
and Education Project (Ln. 3612-KO). It will assist in improving the capacity
of selected agricultural and veterinary colleges to address rural
environmental problems through strengthening relevant research programs and
environment-related teaching courses.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1       The Government included che project in its CY93 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
November 1992. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
in accordance with requests for information formulated by the Bank. The
project was preappraised in March 1993 and appraised in July 1993.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale
2.2       The objective of the project is to strengthen:  (a) selected
national research institutes to identify and adequately address environmental
issues and to undertake environmental R&D activities; and (b) MOEN's policy
and planning role.
2.3       In recent years, Korea has done much to develop environmental
policies and to create the institutional and legal framework to implement
these policies. Within this framework, there is an important role for R&D
activities which address the need for a better technical understanding of
environmental problems and to develop the technology that would assist in
solving them. With the rapid growth of private sector investment in R&D, the
research institutes are changing the focus of their activities and this
includes an increasing concern for addressing environmental problems. The
project provides the opportunity to assist selected research institutes to



- 11 -
orient their R&D activities increasingly towards environmental concerns.
Visiting experts would work with researchers in the institutes. They would
bring state-of-the-art technical knowledge and advice on advanced research
techniques. Through seminars, workshops, individual advice, etc. the experts
would help local research staff to define key directions for environmental
research and to identify related fields of environmental technology
development. The link between research and development would be strengthened
through these interactions. These institutional improvements would be
reinforced by overseas training for local researchers. They would study
advanced environmental research techniques in leading institutions and
interact with environmental experts. The overall result of these activities
would be to strengthen tLe capacity of the institutes to identify
environmental problems and to help in developing appropriate solutions.
2.4       The research institutes are well-staffed with highly qualified
researchers but shortages of up-to-date equipment are inhibiting the
development of advanced research capabilities. Equipment provided under the
project would help to alleviate this problem. Furthermore, project design
required an exhaustive analysis of equipment needs in relation to
environmental research objectives in the institutes.'/ This required a
review of the institutions' procedures for setting research priorities and
identifying the equipment needed to support relevant research programs. These
procedures are in general well-established but were strengthened during the
review process in respect of new fields of environmental research. The
equipment program would include, inter alia, the enhancement of computer
systems. This would strengthen the monitoring of environmental variables and
enhance environmental research. The project would also provide the
opportunity to ensure that MOEN would be in a stronger position to take the
lead in formulating environmental policy and play a stronger role in
coordinating and monitoring environmental planning activities. By
strengthening MOEN's capacity for economic analysis through enhanced computer
capacity and overseas training in environmental policy and economics, its
ability to assess the economic impact of environmental activities would be
improved. Thus project design includes substantial value added in the form of
reinforcing the orientation of institutional activities towards environmental
problems and strengthening the institutions' capacity to address these
problems.
C. Project Design and Description
2.5       The project would include institutional development components in
the form of overseas training, visiting experts and library materials together
with equipment and equipment-related inputs and civil works to house the
6/   The project complements the Environmental Research and Education Project
(Ln. 3612-KO) which is assisting in strengthening the capacity of
selected agricultural and veterinary colleges to address rural
environmental problems.
7/   The Project File contains details, for each institution, of major
equipment groups in relation to research fields.



- 12 -
equipment. The Bank would finance the baseline foreign exchange cost of 1017
months of overseas training (US$5.1 million), 175 months of visit1ng experts
(US$1.7 million) and library materials (US$2.4 million). Details of the
overseas training and visiting expert program are given in Annex 2. Schedules
for overseas training and visiting experts have been agreed and are included
in the Project File. During negotiations, the Government agreed to implement
the overseas training and visiting experts program according to the agreed
schedules. Terms of reference for the visiting experts have been reviewed and
are satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would also finance equipment (baseline
cost, US$80.8 million) which would be allocated among project institutions as
follows:  MOEN - Us$1.6 million; KAIST -US$19.3 million; KAITECH - US$18.5
million; KRISS - US$9.8 million; KORDI - US$8.7 million; SERI - US$8.8
million; KWAIST - US$6 million; KIMM - US$4.9 million; and GERI - US$3.2
million.  Equipment lists are included in the Project File.  In order to
ensure that the equipment is installed and utilized effectively, the
Government would finance complementary inputs (baseline cost, US$24.4 million)
which would cover local transportation and installation costs, O&M and
consumable materials. The Government would also finance civil works (US$14.3
million) to house the equipment, where required.
2.6       The project would finance 60 months of overseas training (US$0.3
million) for MOEN for periods of 1-6 months. The main focus of training would
be on environmental policy and economics, environmental technology information
and systems. The training would strengthen MOEN's capacity to carry out
policy analysis, improve understanding of the economic basis of policies and
strengthen the technical basis on which policies are founded. The project
vould also finance equipment comprising a mainframe computer with associated
peripherals and software, estimated to cost US$1.6 million. The computer
would assist in monitoring environmental R&D activities and in providing
economic analyses of technology options. This would strengthen the capacity
to provide practical policy recommendations related to a broad range of
environmental issues. Books, journals and reference materials (US$0.1
million) would also be financed to strengthen MOEN's information base. MOEN's
component would be managed by the International Cooperation Officer within the
Planning and Budget Office, which also contains specialist accounting and
procurement staff to assist in project implementation.
2.7       A program of 360 months of overseas training (US$1.8 million) for
periods averaging 6 months would be financed for KAIST. The main focus would
be on air and water pollution control, solid waste disposal technology and
advanced environmental technology.  The ."oject would also finance 30 months
of visiting experts (US$0.3 million) in   qlds identical with the overseas
training program. Equipment estimated t lost US$19.3 million would be
financed under the project. A major focus of the equipment would be for the
development of air and water pollution control technology (US$7.7 million).
Equipment would also be allocated to support research into global
environmental problems and systems (US$4.4 million), solid waste disposal
technology (US$3 million) and engineering applications in advanced
environmental technology (US$4.2 million). The project would also finance
books, journals and reference materials estimated to cost US$0.9 million.
KAIST is a major research and teaching institution and its faculty members are
typically engaged in both these activities. KAIST has a faculty of 374, all



- 13 -
of whom have graduate degrees including 80X with doctorates. Project
implementation would be the responsibility of the Office of Administration
(Annex 3) which would be supported by specialist staff from the Procurement
Section and the Finance Section. These arrangements are the same as those
currently being utilized satisfactorily for the implementation of the KAIST
component of Ln. 3202-KO.
2.8       The project would finance 152 months of overseas training (US$0.8
million) for KAITECH for periods of 1-12 months. Training would focus on
environmental problems as they relate to industry with special emphasis on the
development o~ pollution technology. Fields of training would include
industrial waste water treatment techniques, contamination control, recycling
technology treatment and hazardous waste, emission reduction, etc. The
project would also finance 24 months of visiting experts (US$0.2 million) for
periods of about one month each to offer specialized advice and conduct
seminars in the major fields for which overseas training is being sought. The
visiting experts would reinforce the training received overseas. Equipment
estimated to cost about US$18.5 million would be allocated among the
specialized technology centers (Annex 4). There would be a strong focus on
assisting small and medium enterprises. Major needs of research would be:
(a) production process technology (US$8.3 million) including waste recycling,
industrial waste minimization and industrial pollution reduction;
(b) materials technology (US$2.2 million) including the development of
improved thermal processes, contamination control and improved waste
technology; (c) textile technology (US$1.7 million) for the development of
lower pollution production technology; (d) chemical technology (US$1.6
million) for waste water analysis and treatment and recycling of chemical-
based products, e.g., plastics; and (e) test and inspection technology (US$4.7
million) for measurement and analysis of air, water and noise pollution in
industry. Laboratory facilities (US$0.8 million) to house project-financed
equipment would be completed during 1994. KAITECH has a research and
engineering staff of 296 supported by 115 junior research staff. About 61% of
researchers have graduate degrees including 21% with doctorates.
Implementation of the KAITECH component would be managed and coordinated by
the Planning and Budgeting Section of the Administration Department, supported
by procurement and accounting staff from the Purchasing Section and the
Accounting Section. Overall supervision would be provided by the Research and
Planning Department. This implementation system was used successfully for
KAITECH's component under Loan 3037-KO.
2.9       KRISS is receiving assistance for overseas training and visiting
experts estimated at about US$0.8 million per annum from Japan and Germany and
this fully meets institutional needs. The project would finance equipment
estimated to cost about US$9.8 million to be allocated to three major research
areas - environmental measurement and evaluation (US$4 million); development
and evaluation of pollution-preventing materials (US$3.8 million); and
calibration and evaluation of environment measuring equipment (US$2 million).
Laboratory facilities to house project-financed equipment (US$2.7 million)
would be completed by the end of 1994. KRISS has a senior re*search and
engineering staff of 207 supported by 51 junior staff. About 73% of staff
have graduate degrees including 37X with doctorates. Implementation of the
KRISS component would be managed by the Department of Planning and Research



- 14 -
Management (Annex 5) with specialist staff being drawn from the Research
Management Section and the Industrial Cooperation Section. The Department of
Administration would provide further support if needed.
2.10      The project would finance 100 months of overseas training (US$0.5
million) for KORDI for periods of 1-3 months.  Training would cover specific
technical subjects such as underwater acoustics, water quality modelling and
satellite data processing as well as more general state-of-the-art studies in
environmental toxicology, chemical ecology, organic pollution, etc. The
project would also finance 50 months of visiting experts (US$0.5 million) for
periods of 1-2 months to offer specialized advice and conduct seminars in a
number of fields including marine environment, coastal dynamics, physical
oceanography, ocean ecosystem dynamics, etc. Library materials, estimated to
cost US$0.1 million would also be financed under the project. Equipment
estimated to cost about US$8.7 million would be allocated among the six
research divisions (Annex 6) (US$5.1 million) and for common use (US$3.6
million). The latter, which would include a mainframe computer, would support
the ocean data and computer service, ocean instrumentation and audio-visual
systems. KORDI is well staffed with highly qualified researchers. There are
143 senior resoarch staff supported by a junior research staff of 121. About
51% of researchers have graduate degrees, including 32% with doctorates.
KORDI's component would be implemented by a project manager designated from
the staff of the Planning Division, whose director would provide overall
supervision. The project manager would be assisted by accounting and
procurement staff from the Administrative Division. Staff resources are
adequate for the successful implementation of the project.
2.11      The project would finance 160 months of overseas training for SERI
(US$0.8 million) for periods of 1-12 months. The major focus of training
would be on modelling for environmental climate change and weather prediction.
Training would also be provided in data base development for environmental
information and statistical methodology related to climate change. Twenty
months of visiting experts (US$0.2 million) would also be financed under the
project focussing mainly on computer applications for environmental change,
air pollution monitoring and remote sensing. The project would finance
equipment estimated to cost US$8.8 million. It would be allocated to: (a) the
Application Software Division (Annex 7) (US$3.5 million) to develop techniques
and software for monitoring climate change, construct models for predicting
climate and biosphere changes, etc.; (b) Supercomputer Center (US$3 million)
for the construction of a network of realtime environmental science
information; (c) Science and Technology Information Systems Division (US$1.4
million) to create numerical and image data bases of environmental technology;
(d) Production Management and Automation Research Laboratory (US$0.7 million)
to develop techniques to reduce industrial waste and pollution,and to improve
measurement of pollution; and the Artificial Intelligence Division, (US$0.2
million) to develop environmental monitoring and image processing techniques.
SERI has a senior research staff of 117 supported by 95 junior researchers.
About 65% of research staff have graduate degrees including 10% with
doctorates. Research staff are supported by 107 technical assistants.
Project implementation would be the responsibility of the International
Cooperation Section assisted by procurement and accounting staff from the



- 15 -
Finance Section. Staff resources are adequate for the successful
implementation of the project.
2.12      The first phase of the new campus for KWAIST will be completed by
the end of 1995 and include research facilities for all the graduate schools.
In line with this, faculty is planned to expand rapidly from 15 in 1994 to 54
in 1995 and 69 in 1996. To strengthen faculty development, the project would
finance 45 months of overseas training (US$0.2 million) for periods of three
months and 21 months of visiting experts (US$0.2 million), mainly in the
fields of environmental ecology and preservation, and industrial safety. The
project would finance equipment estimated to cost US$6 million to be located
in the Department of Environmental Science and Engineering (Annex 8). The
equipment would be focused mainly in the areas of air, water, soil and marine
pollution (US$3.9 million), environmental health and ecosystems (US$1.3
million), and noise and vibration control (US$0.8 million). Laboratory
facilities estimated to cost US$2.9 million are being constructed to house the
project-financed equipment and they will be completed by the end of 1994.
Books, journals and reference materials (US$0.6 million) would be financed to
support the development of the institution's library services. Project
implementation would be the responsibility of the Office of Academic Affairs
which would be supported by specialist accounting and procurement staff of the
Office of Planning.
2.13      The project would finance equipment estimated to cost US$4.9
million for KIMM.  The equipment would be allocated to:  (a) the Mechanical
Engineering Research Department (Annex 9) (US$2.3 million) where there would
be strong focus on pollutant gas analysis; (b) the Automation Engineering
Research Department (US$1 million) where emphasis would be placed on noise and
vibration measurement and monitoring in engines; (c) the Test and Evaluation
Technology Department (US$0.6 million) for research into analysis of heavy
metals in gas and liquids and related element analysis; (d) the Mechanical
Systems Research Department (US$0.8 million) where the main focus would be an
analysis of combustion products and development of pollution control
equipment; and (e) the Technical Information Division (US$0.2 million) which
supplies common services in data gathering and processing, and design and
programming of environmental information. Laboratory facilities to house
project-related equipment (US$7 million) would be completed during 1995. KIMM
has a senior research staff of 155 supported by 121 junior research staff.
About 62% of staff have graduate degrees including 22X with doctorates. KIMM
would finance its training needs from its own resources.  KIMM's component
would be implemented by a project manager, to be designated among the staff of
the R&D Management Division, and assisted by accounting and procurement
personnel from the Administrative Division. Staffing is adequate to carry out
these tasks.
2.14      The project would finance 140 months of overseas training (US$0.7
million) for GERI for periods of 1-4 months. Training would focus on areas of
biodiversity, taxonomy, environmental biotechnology, R&D management, etc. The
project would also finance 30 months of visiting experts (US$0.3 million) for
periods of 1-2 months, mainly in the same areas for which training is being
provided. Expertise in some additional areas would also be sought, e.g.
biosafety and monitoring. Equipment estimated to cost US$3.2 million would be



- 16 -
procured to support the strengthening of environmental analysis in
biotechnology in the Division of Applied Biology and Process Technology, and
the Genetic Resources Center (Annex 10) (US$2 million). The remaining
equipment (US$0.4 million) would be allocated to the Pilot Plant Center for
pilot frocessing of environmentally hazardous materials. The International
Information Center for Environmental Biotechnology would receive equipment to
strengthen its information processing capacity (US$0.8 million) together with
books and journals (US$0.7 million). Laboratory facilities to house the
project-financed equipment (US$1 million) would be completed during 1995.
GERI has a senior research staff of 75 supported by 73 junior researchers.
About 99% of staff have graduate degrees including 50X with doctorates.
Project implementation would be the respopsibility of the Department of
Management Planning which will designate a project manager. Support personnel
in procurement and accounting will be provided by the Department of General
Administration. Adequate staffing is available for the successful
implementation of the project.
2.15      During project design, special attention was giver. to reviewing the
procedures by which the participating research institutes identify their
research priorities and programs, and draw up related equipment lists. With
minor variations, the institutes follow common procedures. Typically,
research projects are proposed within the research divisions and the projects
reviewed by the division director. Projects passing this scrutiny are sent to
a research review committee which is usually chaired by a vice-president and
comprises the heads of the major research departments. This committee makes
recommendations to the president, who has final approval authority. Equipment
requirements are included in proposals for research projects. Projects which
successfully pass the review process are then scrutinized by an equipment
procurement committee, comprising senior researchers, to ensure that equipment
requests are relevant to the research being proposed. Consolidated equipment
lists are approved by the president. The institutional research priority
framework, within which the above, activities take place, is defined with
reference to the Government's statements of priority as set out in the
national five-year plans and in sectoral plans.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
I. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$156 million
equivalent, net of duties and taxes, consisting of US$112.9 million foreign
expenditures and US$43.1 local expenditures. The estimated cost by project
component is sxmmarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in
Table 3.2. Detailed costs by component and category are given in Annex 11 and
project expenditure by year and recipient in Annex 12.
3.2       Base costs are estimated at July 1993 prices.  Equipment costs are
estimated oal the basis of master lists already drawn up and recent catalogue
prices. Civil works costs were provided by the Government and are based on
contract awards for similar facilities in Korea. Transportation and
installation costs, the initial supply of consumables and the costs of



- 17 -
operations and maintenance are based on recent experience in project
institutions. Cost estimates for overseas training, visiting experts and
library materials are similarly based on local experience. Duties and taxes,
allowing for exemptions, are estimated at US$7.7 million.
3.3        The continaencv allowance of US$26.5 million (about 21% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for
estimated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
baseline costs for training, visiting experts, library materials, equipment,
transportation and installation of equipment, consumable materials, 0&M
expenditures and civil works. Price increase contingencies were calculated
for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following expected
annmal average price increase percentages: foreign cost, 2.8% in FY94 and
thereafter and local cost, 4.5X in FY94 and 4% thereafter. Accordingly,
aggregated price increases are estimated at about 10% of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies.
Table 3.1:  SVMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Won Sillion                  USS Million          Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Totat       as %
of total
Ministry of Environment                  0.4       1.6    2.0         0.6      2.0    2.6          77
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology                 4.3      17.8    22.1         5.5    22.9    28.4          80
Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology                             4.5      15.8    20.3         5.8    20.2      .           78
Korea Research Institute of
Standards and Science                  3.9       8.4    12.3         4.9    10.7   15.6           68
Korea Ocean Research and
Development Institute                  2.0       7.8    9.8          2.6    10.0   12.6           79
Systems Engineering Research
Institute                              2.0       7.8    9.8         2.5    10.1   12.6            79
Kwangju Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology              2.9       6.0    8.9          3.7     7.7   11.4           68
Korea Institute of Machinery
and Metals                             5.3       5.0    10.3         6.8     6.4    13.2          48
Genetic Engineering Research
Institute                              1.5       4.0     5.5         1.9     5.2    7.1           74
Baseline cost                           26.8    Z74.    101.0        34.2    95.3   129.5          73
Contingencies
Physical                           2.7       7.4   10.1         3.4      9.5   12.9           73
Price increases                    4.3       6.4    10.7         5.5     8.1    13.6          60
Subtotat                                 7.0      J38    20.8         8.9    17.6   25.6           66
Total Prolect Cost C                    33.8      0 A    121.8       43.1    112.9   156.0         72
/ Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$7.7 million.



- 18 -
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$112.9 million (about 72X of total estimated
project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following foreign exchange percentages:
equipment - 100l, overseas training -901, visiting experts - 802, library materials - lOOZ,
transportation and installation - 102, consumables - 10, O&M - 102 and civil works - 20X.
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
won Billion               USS Million        Foreign
Local  Foreign  ToSat     Local  Foreign  Totat    as X
of total
Equipent                             0.0    63.4   63.4         0.0    80.8   80.8       100
Equipment transportation and Installation  3.3  0.4    3.7      4.3     0.5    4.8        10
Operations ad Maintenance            6.9      0.7    7.6        8.8    1.0    9.8         10
Cosamble materials                   6.9      0.?    7.6        8.8    1.0    9.8         10
Overseas training                    0.4      3.7    4.1        0.5    5.1    S.6         90
Library materials                    0.0      1.9    1.9        0.0    2.4    2.4        100
Visiting experts                     0.3      1.1    1.4        0.3     1.7    2.0        80
Civil works                          9.0      2.3   11.3       11.5    2.8   14.3         20
Baseline cost                       26.8     74.2  101.0       34.2    95.3  129.5        73
Contingencies
Physical                            2.7     7.4   10.1        3.4    9.5   12.9         73
Price increase                      4.3     6.4   10.7        5.5    8.1   13.6         60
s=ubtotal                            ?0 A    13.8   20.8        8.9   17.6   2S           66
Total orolect cost                  33.8    88.0  121.8        43.1   112.9  156.0        72
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$90 million equivalent would finance about
80X of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 58X of
total project costs, net of duties and taxes. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 42X or US$66 million equi'-zlent. The loan
amount is limited to US$90 million by the foreign borrowing program and is
therefore less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would
finance 1002 of the baseline cost of equipment and library materials, 902 for
overseas training and 801 for visiting experts. All contingencies would be
financed by the government. The loan amount would be allocated as follows:



- 19 -
MOEN (US$2 million), KAIST (US$22.3 million), KAITECH (US$19.5 million), KRISS
(US$9.8 million), KORDI (US$9.8 million), SERI (US$9.8 million), KWAIST (US$7
million), KIMM (US$4.9 million), and GERI (US$4.9 million).
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                Government        IBRD         Total
---US$ million-----------
Equipment                                                80.8         80.8
Equipment transportation
and installation                         4.8            -            4.8
Operations and maintenance                  9.8           -            9.8
Consumable materials                       9.8            -            9.8
Overseas training                          0.5            5.1          5.6
Library materials                           -             2.4          2.4
Visiting experts                            0.3           1.7          2.0
Civil works                               14.3            -           14.3
Contingencies                             26.5            -           26.5
Total                                 6156.0
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       When fully operational, the project would generate recurrent costs
for equipment-related consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$6.3 million
p.a. in the eight participating research institutes. This represents about 2X
of the estimated combined recurrent budgets of the institutes for FY94. These
additional expenditures could be accommodated by the institutions without
difficulty. Similar recurrent costs would be generated within MOEN but would
amount to only about US$0.2 million and therefore would be easily
accommodated.
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7       Responsibility for project implementation in the eight research
institutes would lie with each institution. The institutions are adequately
staffed with experienced personnel to handle project administration, planning,
procurement and reporting. The parent ministries of the project institutions
- the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy for KAITECH and MOST for the
remaining institutions - would not be involved in routine implementation
activities but would play an overall coordinating role. The ministries would
be informed of general progress in implementation by the project institutions
but would become directly involved only in project-wide issues, such as any



- 20 -
proposed amendment to the loan agreement. The ministries would also serve as
the link between the institutes and the Ministry of Environment for guidance
on environmental policy and operational issues in relation to environmental
technology development. MOEN's component would be managed by the Planning and
Budget Office, which is suitably staffed for the task (para 2.6). The project
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 13. The project would be
implemented over a period of four years.
3.8       The bulk of the work in equipment procurement would be undertaken
by OSROK, which is highly experienced in procuring equipment under the Bank's
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. On the basis of equipment
lists and specifications provided by the project institutions, OSROK would
prepare bidding documents, invite bids, evaluate them in conjunction with the
institutions and make contract awards with their agreement. The project
institutions would be responsible for installation, initial testing and
operation of the equipment, unless specified in the equipment contract that
the supplier would perform these tasks. The institutions would also be
responsible for maintenance and repair of the equipment including acquisition
of spare parts, accessories and consumables, beyond the items and services
initially supplied under the contract. Overseas training, the contracting of
overseas experts and the procurement of library materials and civil works
would be undertaken by the individual institutions. The Bank would supervise
the project twice yearly around March and September coinciding as far as
possible with the preparation of the semi-eninual progress reports (para.
3.14). Overall implementation issues would be handled by the task manager,
assisted by a procurement specialist; technical aspects would be the
responsibility of a consultant in envi.-onmental science. Project supervision
would carefully monitor the overall scope of envirornmental research activities
in the project institutions and pay particular attention to the contribution
of visiting experts and overseas training in enhancing environmental research.
The utilization of project-financed equipment for environmental research would
also be monitored. Relevant information necessary for the monitoring
activities would be included in the semi-annual progress reports. A
supervision plan is given in Annex 14.
Status of Project Preparation
3.9       The advanced stage of project preparation would allow
implementation to commence immediately after loan signing. Project
institutions have been identified and equipment lists and detailed
specifications prepared. The program for overseas training and visiting
experts has been reviewed and is satisfactory. Project management authorities
have been identified and competent staff are available to handle
implementation activities.
Procurement
3.10      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  About 85X of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in
contracts valued at less than US$300,000 may be procured up to an aggregate
limit of US$9.6 million through local competitive bidding procedures or, for



- 21 -
contracts below US$50,000, through shopping procedures (aggregate limit US$4.8
million) allowing for the comparison of quotations from at least three
eligible suppliers. Local equipment manufacturers would be extended a 15%
preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is the lower,
on bid evaluation under ICB. Local transportation, operations and maintenance
costs on equipment, would be financed by the Government under local
procedures. Installation costs and costs of consumables, if not included in
the equipment contracts, would also be financed by the Government under local
procedures. Civil works, to be financed by the Government, would be procured
through local competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Fellowships for
overseas training would be awarded on the basis of local Government procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Visiting experts would be selected in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Library materials would be
procured on the basis of direct purchase after negotiating for discounts with
publishers or their authorized distributors.
3.11      In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK,
with one exception, would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the
Bank for prior review before making contract awards.91 However, complete
bidding documents including commercial terms, schedules of requirements and
technical specifications would be sent to the Bank before each invitation to
bid. Bid evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be retained by
OSROK for ex-post review by Bank missions. The exception applies to contracts
for mainframe computers, estimated to cost US$900,000 or more, to be procured
by three project institutions. In this case, draft bidding documents,
including specifications and bid evaluation reports, would be submitted for
prior review by the Bank before inviting bids and awarding contracts
respectively. This is necessary because of the complexity and sensitivity of
procuring mainframe computers under ICB procedures. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to submit to the Bank, the bidding-related documents
mentioned above.
Disbursements
3.12      The proposed loan of US$90 million would be disbursed over a period
of 4.5 years (Annex 15). This is less than the standard disbursement profile
for education projects in Korea, which is 5.5 years. However, it is in line
with disbursement periods for previous technology advancement projects
assisting national research institutes, some of which are included in the
proposed project. The completion date of the project would be March 31, 1998
and the closing date September 30, 1998. Disbursements would be made on the
basis of (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment or, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured equipment; (b)
65% of local expenditures for other equipment items procured locally; and (c)
100% of foreign expenditures on overseas training, visiting experts and
library materials. Reimbursement for technical assistance expenditures and
for each equipment contract of US$300,00C equivalent or more, would be fully
documented. Reimbursement for expenditures on library materials and for each
8/ OSROK has had long experience in procuring equipment under the Bank's
ICB procedures. It is well-staffed with competent personnel. OSROK's
record in the implementation of ongoing education and technology
advancement projects has been exemplary.



- 22 -
equipment contract of less than US$300,000, would be made against statements
of expenditure (SOE) for which full supporting documentation would be retained
in the project institutions, for review as requested, by visiting Bank
missions. Administrative and accounting capability in the institutions is
adequate to support the SOE procedure.
Table 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total cost
Procurement Method                  including
Category of expenditure       ICB       LCB    Other ^/        NBF contingencies
--------------- (US$ million) -----------------
Equipment                    81.5       9.6        4.8       -           95.9
(68.7)     (8.1)     (4.0)                 (80.8)
Equipment transportation
and installation            -         -          -         6.0          6.0
(0.0)       (0.0)
Operations and maintenance   -          -          -        12.6         12.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Consumable materials          -         -          -        12.6         12.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Overseas training             -          -         6.5       -            6.5
(5.1)      -           (5.1)
Library materials             -          -         2.8       -            2.8
(2.4)      -          (2.4)
Visiting experts              -          -         2.4       -            2.4
(1.7)                 (1.7)
Civil works                   -         -          -        17.2         17.2
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                   11565 2.0 JL.5                 A8,4       iiu
(68.7)      (8.1)    (13.2)     (0.0)      (90.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank loan.
NBF:   Not Bank-financed.
Includes international and local shopping, selection of fellows using
existing Government procedures acceptable to the Bank, selection of
visiting experts following Bank guidelines for consultants, and direct
purchase.
3.13      To facilitate disbursements, a special account, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up at the Korea Exchange Bank to cover the estimated
average amount required to finance project expenditures for the next four
months. There would be nine subaccounts with amounts allocated as follows:
MOEN (US$0.2 million); KAIST (US$2.2 million); KAITECH (US$1.9 million); KRISS
(U$1.0 million); KORDI (US$1.0 million); SERI (US$1.0 million); KWAIST (US$0.7
million); KIMM (US$0.5 million); and GERI (US$0.5 million). Applications for



- 23 -
replenishment of the special account would be submitted to the Bank on a
monthly basis or whenever the amount requested exceeds one-third of the
initial deposit whichever comes first.
Accounts. Audit, and Reporting
3.14      The Government would cause the project institutions to maintain
project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that audited accounts, including
the special account and SOE would be sent to the Bank within six months of the
end of the financial year. Audit reports would include a separate opinion for
expenditures under SOE procedures. The Government would cause each project
institution to submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank in March and
September and provide status reports for visiting missions. Within six months
of the closing date, each project institution would submit Part II of the
Project Completion Report.
D. Environmental Impact
3.15      The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project would be located in properly
designed laboratories which operate under standard environmental and safety
procedures. The positive environmental aspects of the project are summarized
in the following paragraph on project benefits.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The project would strengthen the capacity of selected national
research institutes to identify and address environmental issues and to
undertake environmental R&D.  This would result in a better understanding of
the technological aspects of environmental problems, improved methods of
measuring and mo2itoring key environmental indicators and more
environmentally-sound production processes. The project would also result in
MOEN being strengthened in its policy and planning role which would lead to
improved environmental policy formulation and implementation.
B. Risks
4.2       There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       The Government has agreed that:
(a)  the program of overseas training and visiting experts would be
implemented according to agreed schedules (para 2.5);



- 24 -
(b) with respect to contracts for mainframe computers estimated to cost
US$900,000 or more, draft bidding documents including
specifications and bid evaluation reports, would be submitted for
prior review by the Bank before inviting bids and awarding
contracts respectively (para. 3.11);
(c) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.14);
(d) progress reports would be submitted by each project institution
semi-annually in March and September of each year (para. 3.14); and
(e) within six months of the closing date, Part II of the project
completion report for each project institution would be submitted
to the Bank (para. 3.14).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$90 million equivalent to the Republic of K'rea for
a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



Annex 1
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Environment
Organization Chart
Puolc lMotnatm Offcer
Plawnig endMBudgetio 1Olfle
AdvMntstnatrve M        t, f_
Lega Affair Officer
Emergncy Planrag Office
International Affars Offce
_  .O.PS an Sasaosbca Ott
Otoce                 ~~~~~Waste Managwemen Burau                    NatIonal Enwcntnent Researet Institut
I 2                ~                            Waste Management Planning          6*                 General AltsWaseMu Pang
GlcBaf E{W~    ~                                General Waste Management            *                   Rerwal A iogif n
mi Wste aina*                                     angeen Ontt
Enwow.ttai IMP=c AsSaWefflsn                      S0ecafet  Waste Mtnegement                         Envwonmental Health Rtesafeah
Orman                               Dmw.M~~~~~Oean                                    Decenynent
Envonmenta                                   + watRee   awnRclMasbWaStte Mangemn-Dawn                 AO' Ofjaktity Reaeac Oepa,tn
Naftur &Mfirs   t ol"                       TOSC SusOsarces Management Olmion                4    at r Oatt Reseetc  OapMattnn
ftcy Gwrwatiw 0mcor                 ~~~~~SWi Conservato  Oriaston                                   = :t
Tomec Sulatmneas Manageent OfIe                    o  e   I  nlsanRsetl  aoflf
4~ ~                                                  1 
Air Gealt,y Ptrng Oiaa Ran 
mV am Conqnoctm PlRgioal n                        m n OfIc
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt _                                                .n
Air Poituaon Controel OrTsaiwnonfv OW4
Autrnncve P.oltutlon Contr OI Dmion
,  {  Glet1ltnDlvsX#l     g            1      oretags walwntUAnelsa DIiont             -         Corinto Cdmmaat
Noise!nd Vibration Control Di Iio nsn  a                                                : v
era         sertiacaso |fOag8gly
Donseattc Wastasuate Managemeno|
M aIne Enwonm       tetn OatnnIII
DOnWSDC ~            ~            MOt WS ulAt* MMagacon|                        i JrVoimoemrm 
_                                                   .mm                         I                 IXosl8Mr AdnwsUtralt  yX
Man                                       _ EnywngamnTent8leu  
_  Alr OurE Plunrng Dmson  |                       .     t     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     swswi



Annex 2
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Overseas Training and Visiting Experts
Overseas Training               Visiting Exoerts
Total       Total             Total      Total
trainees    staff-months     experts    staff-months
Ministry of Environment                21            60               -            -
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology               60           360              17           30
Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology                           48           152              32           24
Korea Research Institute of
Standards and Science                 -             -               -            -
Korea Ocean Research and
Development Institute                71           100              32           50
Systems Engineering Research
Institute                            30           160             15            20
Kwangju Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology            15            45               9           21
Korea Institute of Machinery
and Metals
Genetic Engineering Research
Institute                            72           140             43            30
Total                                317           1017            148           175



Annex 3
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
Organization Chart
Departmen t Ofr Icec 
Acremic Affairs
& Research                                               Drnt of
Review Conmmitee-[               Nta                                  1-- -,g
D eparot of mibattirriais
Departnentot Etri
D eparenot ot iat Engner|
Departinerf of Pmcin Enguter
_  ianea nScl= 0f  _            MoChScatinces
S1ho ot oo Hu:7-aEnomeraa
&   DSnent ot tagcet Sci
[  SQX ot    I    q~Ownent of Mkanonwot enct Poticy
a_ Mana t   _
I    OeparInof  Irlutl Engtr 
Comute Sciene  ftieo fioteear fice  Studen Iffce of A Dern r ofotf of Caramie Scnoc
l   l                    |    ObnototZttoats~~~~~WiemiScience 
REard oh Tntesr            PAfdfai f _  _ _hitr                                                Ars
AWW ~E,,-,V               O mn  F            eSeBEn o lh
Auddor                                                                             D epatnmet of Chmeatw Entpnow 
_ School of iormrtion  E_0                          __r!ime
_   a ElectronicsntotConpta
I     aSc,= omue
M-9=t~~                  9Wotunass 
ofi 
PtS                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rp45l



Annex 4
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOrY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Academy of Ins,ustrlal Technology
Organization Chart
Mechanical and Material
lDevelopment Centerl
Board of Trustees                                               ____.
Production and System
Development Center
L                                                 __                              ___I_
President          __          Vice President         e _Electronics and Information
Chem_calSTe         ACateo C
Teotioe Technology Appication Center
_                                                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chemical Technology Application Center|
Auditorll
Production Technology Applicabon Center|
Technology Management Center
Test and Inspecton Center
Industrial Technology Training Center |
-Research and Planning Division
-Administrative Management Oivision
_ Construction Business Division
- Overseas Offices (US. Japan and CIS)
Policy Research Division
External Cooperation Division
Steering Committee
_  Korea Electronics Technology ins0tute
cakic\wS461 2



Annex 5
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science
Organization Chart
Divison of Mechanca
Merology
Division
of Elmagnetic
Metrology
* Ressarch 
Advis     Scn                                     Vice President
C.mnte                                              for RaD
* Ressrch             o                                                        Dasion of Anailtcal
Review                                                                           chietry
Cormntee               * afice of
Policy StdSes
Internanonal                                   _    Msen of Precison
Coeoperation                                        Instnmtnbon
* Olff of
Publa 
Materials Evaluanon
Saenre Center    Observatory                                   D -seon of
_  technc a nd
Instrument Sup,oort
.aAiyDvso   I          DI io ofDprt tO
>~~~~~~~~OW  Astmorn                                           PlanM%       ch|
Diiso 13                                                     -      Departrnent of|
AdnpnWat67on



Annex 6
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Ocean Research and Development Institute
Organization Chart
BaAof Trustees
Physical         Coastal Oceanography Lab.
Auor                            0     %Oceanography  Ocean Prediction Lab.
Division         Applied Physics Lab.
Cherical          Chemical Oceaogrephy Lab.
=Pdect Chemistry Lab.
DMisons          ManGSoteolog Lab.
Ma       rob=ology Lab.
Ge9~ics            M1ne {~W. Rces Lab.
ne Tectonics Lab.
Ocean Engineermng Lab.
Oceant
& PolicyDiion        2noieep
Pola Ecologital REeen ach Lab.
Centr .nai D o  Fo Station
CanPolagistcs Dept.
[Ocean Information Semu es Dept.
OOw ft Datah  Computer
Ocean  t      lnstnes enaon Dept
.rp.536Deb



Annex 7
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Systems Engineering Research Institute
Organization Chart
Adwosory Commt tat
nemltie SensgDivisten
Geor| Computermaon S|te
7  robsctioPatten RMecoanie       on         e
S  Sofatwanrne ring
X       System Software >rision   |
r Global Envimornlft Inbrmabo Systeam
line  PSmytensmg System
Lgai  T eograptic Intoffn    System
CAD/CAE
Produrbain Managernent a Autornabon Reseruch
MS tnbmubo0n Tcneg   ducon Cne 
SupercompuutrCenter             |
Administration Depaurtmet      |
_    nmrrabor%W Cooperbon Section
F:nai Seatio



Annex 8
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Kwanglu
Organization Chart
|Presidentl
-omce of Planning
- Office of SAcdent Affairs                                          _        bof
- Offlce of Reserch & Devebpnmnt                                            Engineerg
Oeparent d
_  Sdene il&
Engineeting
EnOvbnntal
_Science &
Engineedng
J eartrient of
UleS Sciences
Enginwedg
sm7tNl



Annex9
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Institute of Machinery and Metals
Organization Chart
Mechanical|
.                 ~~~~~Systems
Board of                                                Research Department                _          R  o
D[retojs                                                                                        Pbanntng Department
Etements
Technology
Researoh Depamsent_                       Administrataon
Depantment
President        _
R&D
Informatnon
Research Oepatment                         Depanment
EnMneehamea l                 H       Seoul Office
Auditor
Mateials                     _       Tokyo Ofrice
Vice President     _ _         Engineering
Researcn Department
New York
Matenals      |
Research Department
Europe Offie
Korea Research
Institute of Ships            Test & Evaluation
& Ocean Engineenng                 Technology
R&D
Korea Aerospace
Research Insbtute
______________________________ - I Administration
IITechnica
Information
Divsion
arprWS37la



Annex 10
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Genetic Engineering Research Institute
Organization Chart
Research Review           _o Newsion ofuc
Committee                      Genetc Engineering
Au*    r nasion of Appried Blonogy
Auditing OXcer 7 ~& Process Technology
Development Program
-Dinwev F                 _       fo"rN'epw B'op-oeducts
Terantin    Center
PFani ng i                   Infotrnation and Policy
I  angmetI 
m nfee
&VWW6Ct d



Annex 11
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECINOLOGY OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Prolect Costs by Coeonent and Cateoorv
(won Billion)
Equipment   Equipnent       O&3       Consumable    Technical        CiviL        Total Cost
Transportation           Materials      Assistance       Works      Wona    U$1
and                                     and Library
Instatlation                           MateriaLs
Ministry of Enviromnent                  1.2            0.1         0.2          0.2           0.3                       2.0     2.6
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology                15.2            0.8         1.9          1.8           2.4            -         22.1    28.4
Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology                            14.5            0.8         1.8          1.8           0.8            0.6       20.3    26.0
Korea Research Institute of
Standards and Science                  7.7            0.5         1.0          1.0                          2.1       12.3    15.6
Korea Ocean Research and
DeveLopment Institute                  6.9            0.4         0.8          0.8           0.9            -          9.8    12.6
Systeme Engineering Research
Institute                             6.9             0.4         0.8         0.9            0.8            -         9.8    12.6
KwIangju Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology              4.7            0.3         0.4          0.4           0.8            2.3        8.9    11.4
Korea Institute of Machinery
and Metals                             3.8            0.2         0.4          0.4           -              5.5       10.3    13.2
Genetic Engineering Research
Institute                             2.5             0.2         0.3         0.3            1.4            0.8        5.5     7.1
5asetine Cost                           63.4             U            67                       7.4           11.3      101     129.5
Contingencies
Physical                               6.3            0.4         0.8          0.8           0.7            1.1       10.1    12.9
Price increase                         5.5            0.5         1.5          1.5           0.6            1.1       10.7    13.6
Subtotal Continzencies                11.8            0.9                      L}            120                              26
Totat Prolect Cost
Won billion                           ?52              62               9.9                  8             13.5      121.8
USS million                           95.9            60         16           12.6          11.7           1.2               156.0



Annex  12
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Protect Expenditure by Year and Recipient
Base Costs (Won BillIon)                         Total Cost
93/4        94/5          95/6         96/7         97/8         Won B        USSm
Ministry of Environment                              1.5         0.3          0.1          0.1           2.0          2.6
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology                             0.9         6.1          8.2          4.6           2.3         22.1        28.4
Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology                                         0.9         5.8          6.5          5.1           2.0         20.3        26.0
Korea Research Institute of
Standards and Science                              0.5         4.9          4.5          1.4           1.0         12.3        15.6
Korea ocean Research and
Development Institute                              0.5         2.3          4.0          2.0           1.0          9.8         12.6
Systems Engineering Research
Institute                                         0.5          2.3          4.2          1.8           1.0         9.8         12.6
Kwangju Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology                          -           3.1          1.6          3.4           0.8          8.9        11.4
Korea Institute of Machinery
and Metals                                                     3.5          4.6          1.5           0.7         10.3        13.2
Genetic Engineering Research
institute                                          -           1.8          3.0          0.5           0.2         5.5          7.1
Baseline Cost                                        3.3        31.3                      20.4          9L1         101.0       129.5
Contingencies
Physical                                           0.3         3.2          3.7          2.0           0.9         10.1        12.9
Price increase                                     0.1         2.0          3.7          2.9           2.0         10.7        13.6
Total Project Cost                                   3.7        36.6         44.4         24.7          12.0        121.8       156.0
Foreign Exchange                                    3.1         25.5         35.2         18.8           5.4        88.0        112.9



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar year       1994              1995              1996              1997              19                199
Bank FY     94            5                96                97                 98                99           00
Quarterly 1 2 3 4 1  2 3 41 234  1 2 3 4 1 1 2341  2 3 4
CIVIL WORKS
Completion at KAITECH and KRISS
Completion at GERI, KIMM and KWAIST           - _
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
Phase I        Phase it          Phase Ill
Equipment lists and specifications prepared
Bidding documents prepared
Invtation for Bkis (IFB) announced                  A                A                A
Bids evaluated
Contracts awarded
Equipment delivered, installed, and tested                                         - |
Warranty period                                                       *  - _
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Selection of trainees, confirm with overseas
institutions and implementation of overseas        -        -                -         - 5      = _
training
Selection of visiting experts, negotiations,      -   -                          -                 -
contract signing and implementation of
visiting experts component.
LOAN PROCESSING AND GENERAL
IMPLEMENTATION
Negotiations                         A
Board Presentation                    A
Loan Signing                             A
Effectiveness                                 A
General Procurement Notice (GPN) Advertised  A
Project Completion Date
Project Closing Date
Project Completion Report Due Date
cakkw545608



Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate dates        Activity                    Expected Skill            Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                         Requirements              (Staff-weeks)
9/94                     Surervision Mission         Project management                1.0
Review final equipment      Procurement                       1.0
lists and specifications
for Phase I procurement
3/95                     SuDervision Mission         Project management                  .
Review semi-annual          Procurement                       1.0
progress report*
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports
Review SOE documentation
Review TA program*
9/95                     Supervision Mission         Project management                2.0
Review final equipme.It     Environmental technology          2.0
lists and specifications   Procurement                        1.0
for Phase II procurement
Review progress report
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/96                     Supervision Mission         Project management                1.0
Review progress report      Environmental technology          1.0
Visit selected              Procurement                       1.0
laboratories to review
equipment utilization.
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
*The regular review of
the progress reports and
TA program would include
special attention to the
overall contribution of
visiting experts,
overseas training and
equipment supply to the
expansion and
improvement of
environmental research
activities.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates        Activity                    Expected Skill            Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                         Requirements              (Staff-weeks)
9/96                     Supervision Mission         Project management                2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                       1.0
Review final equipment
lists and sDecifications
for Phase III
procurement
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/97                     Supervision Mission         Project management                2.0
Review progress report      Environmental technology          1.0
Review sample of bid        Procurement                       1.0
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Visit selected
laboratories to review
equipment utilization
Rtvlew TA program
9/97                     Supervision Mission         Project management                2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                       1.0
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/98                     Supervision Mission         Project management                2.0
Review progress report      Environmental technology          1.0
Review sample of bid        Procurement                       1.0
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Visit selected
laboratories to review
equipment utilization
9/98                     Supervision Mission         Project management                2.0
Prepare for PCR
1/99                     Completion Mission          Project management                2.0
Prepare PCR                 Environmental technology          2.0
Procurement                       1.0



Annex 15
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year       Semester   Cumulative        as % of         Disbursements
and Semester         -US$------- -   Total                        Profile a/
(%)
1994
1
2                9.0 /        9.0            10                 3
1995
1                2.0          11.0            12                 6
2               15.0          26.0            29                18
1996
1               18.0          44.0            49                38
2               16.0          60.0            67                54
1997
1               12.0          72.0            80                70
2               10.0          82.0            91                86
1998
1                7.0          89.0            99                94
2                1.0          90.0           100                96
1999
1                               - -            -                98
2                                               -              100
a/    Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
b/    Initial deposit in Special Account.



Annex 16
KORE
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PEROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.      ReRorts and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
*  A-1 Environmental Protection in Korea, Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea,
1990.
*  A-2 National Report of the Republic of Korea to UNCED 1992, Xinistry of Environment,
Republic of Korea, December 1991.
*  A-3  Environmental Education in Asian Countries, AST/IBRD, April 1991.
A-4 Status and ActiviUes of Technology Development in Korea, KIRI, 1989.
A-5 International Trend of Environmental Technology Development, undated.
B.      Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
** B-1 Research Capability Reinforcement for Global Environmental Protection, October
1992.
* B-2 Ditto, December 1992. _
B-3 Proposal for IBRD Loan Project in Korea Towards 21st Century, February 1992.
B-4 KETRI, IBRD Loan Project Proposal, March 1993.
B-5 GERI, Visiting Experts TOR, undated.
B-6 SERI, TOR for List of Experts, undated.
B-7 Reply to IBRD Information Requirements, March 1993
B-8 KAIST, Equipment Lists, Experts, Library Materials, June 1993
*       See Project File for the Environmental Research and Education Project
(Loan 3612-KO)
**      Includes equipment lists and schedules of overseas training and visiting experts



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25205
wrtsRERblz    126                        127-                        I2                           2            s     l        3.
I                        DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
C H i N A    1OF  KOREA                                                                        , 
)S                                                 {/>        K I> _}                     \                F      ULLUNG OO0Tdong
P EOPLE                                                                                                     <
REP oP KOREA                                                              t113
JAPAN                 P-< }) IKANWON ,e                                                                                   3r
38   | t KYOSGwI  D O                   7          DO          
Komo Academy of Industrial Tchnology  ]                                                                                      S Ld
Ministyof Environment
Korea Ocean Reearch and Detveoment bti tJ                                                                                                       370
Korea Research Institute of Standas                             G-
and Science 
Korea Isitute of Mchinty and Mels
Komra Avanced Instbitute of Scie-ce and
Genetc Engineering Research Institue
Systems Engineeing Research Institude                       B         U                                                 4
36d-
-360
iPI       p  YO~YNGA                                          D;
KwavfuAdvanced Institute of Science
350-
3150
REPUBUC OF KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
oda                                                    Exw w"A Pr i n
+ + + +   Raads Manned & Under CansIl,lion
_340                                                                                                             Even
by no  Warfd  foWs -stalf                                                                             +      Akpeof
.dkief for soe eswnwnw                                                                                       5eaIC
f madersand b is tr the
bemal use of Thn* -WadSnk                                                                                        Bs
G41-ho drwan*nalb used
an I   boundarim  shownn
on fibt do  no1ben t                          0
any Ad          X>                      y-zCHEJU                                                            KILOMETERS
srndaw  wn    Or:                     g     /    ) J                                 01    20 4/               80   100   120   140   160
s  dade& 4t cek ___ _  I_
Sechbausd0,t20O MILES
e  126S 129
SEPTEMBER 1993



