- - - =  4^A>  |C O N F I D E N T I A L
Report No. PP-.5
\~~~,        o§Jk..  '
be returned to GENERAL FILES immediately after use.
This report is available only to those members of the staff to whose work it relates.
Any further release must be authorized by the department head concerned.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
POPULATION PROJECT
REPORT OF PREAPPRAISAL MISSION
INDIA
( n two volumes)
VOLUME I
THE MAIN REPORT
November 27, 1970
Population Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00            7.5 Rupee
Rupee 1.00          US$ 0.13
GLOSSARY
ABBREVIATIONS
ANM        Assistant Nurse-Midwife
BEE        Block Extension Educator
DFPB       District Family Planning Bureau
DFPO       District Family Planning Officer
DMOH       District Medical Officer of Health
DMOH-FP    District Medical Officer of Health and Family Planning
FPHA       Family Planning Health Assistant
FWW        Family Welfare Worker
IPPF       International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD        Intrauterine Device
LHV        Lady Health Visitor
MCH        Maternal and Child Health
MIES       Management-Information and Evaluation System
Oxfam      Oxford University Famine Relief Fund
PHC        Primary Health Center
RFPTC      Regional Family Planning Training Center
RFPWC      Rural Family Planning Welfare Center
SFPB       State Family Planning Bureau
SFPO       State Family Planning Officer
WHO        World Health Organization
UFPWC      Urban Family Planning Welfare Center
UN         United Nations
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF     United Nations Childrens Fund
U.P.       Uttar Pradesh
USAID      United States Agency for International Development



INDIA POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................ i-il
I.   INTRODUCTION 1.......................................1
II.   THE POPULATION PROBLEM 3.............................3
III.   THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM     ........................ 5
A.  Organi2Ztion 5...................................5
B.  The Statistical System ..........................    8
C.  Family Planning Progress     ....................... 9
D.  Appraisal of Recent Trends ......................... 13
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.  Introduction ...................   ................ 17
B.  Urban Program    .................................. 18
C.  Optimal Government of India Pattern Districts ..     19
D.  Intensive Rural Program Districts ..............     20
E.  Basic ANM and Dai Training ......................   24
F.  The Population Centers    .........................25
G.  Physical Facilities and Equipment ...............    28
H.  Costs .......................................... 30
ANNEXES
1. Organizational Chart of Family Planning Activities
at the Center
2. Organizational Chart of Family Planning Activities
in a State
3. Organizational Chart of Family Planning Activities
in a District
4. Organizational Chart of Action/Implementation
Committees
5. Management-Information and Evaluation System
6. Inputs and Results in Project Areas
7.  Staff and Equipment Requirements of Service
Motivation Teams
8. Location of Primary Health Centers and Number
of Subcenters
9. Cost Estimates for Project
10. Addition to Annual Expenditures
MAPS
1. India Population Project
2. Uttar Pradesh State: Population
3. -Mysore State: Population



INDIA POP'ULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       In the past few years the international community has become increas-
ingly concerned with India's family planning program. The annual growth
rate of 2.5% and the addition of 14 million persons each year have been
matters; of serious concern to the Government of India in their efforts at
social and economic improvement.   Following the Aid India Consortium meeting,
especially organized by the Bank in November 1969 to consider India's
program, further discussions were held with the Government of India to dcter-
mine in a preliminary manner the objectives and location of a possible Bank
project. The pro,ject would aim to develop a comprehensive program in the
selected districts which would include the components of the Government of
India program but would also have variations and improvements that are
relevant to the whole Indian program. This would require a management-
information system and an evaluation unit for assessing the work in the
project area on a continuing, basis. It was agreed provisionally that the
project area would comprise six districts in Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and six
districts in Mysore State - covering a total population of about 20 million
persons. A preappraisal mission visited India from July 13 to August 21, 1970.
ii.       The mission found that while the achievements of the Indian program
were considerable, the program is not functioning as well as it should or
could. A large nrumber of persons have accepted family planning services and
an extensive and complex administrative machine to implement policy decisions
has been built. But performance falls short of a solution of India's
population problem, of the targets set by the Government and the expectations
of the Government. Over the last two years sterilizations and IUD insertions
have markedly declined. Though the distribution of condoms has greatly
increased, overall performance has declined. What is more disturbing is that
this decline has occurred despite a great increase in resources available for
family planning.
iii.      The mission could not determine the reasons for these trends.
Though specific recommendations are made by the mission, the basic aim of
the project is to provide a framework for experimentation and orderly change.
Operational questions should be continuously and systematically asked and
the policy implications of their answers should be speedily and effectively
implemented.
iv.       The project consists of the following:
First, the provision of family planning services in three ways:
I. An Urban Program including a particular concentration on post-
partum motivation and service in Lucknow (U.P.) and Bangalore
City (Mysore);
II.  An Optimal Government of India Program to implement the
Government pattern in twelve Districts - six in U.P. and
six in Mysore; and



III.  An Intensive Rural Program including a particular concentra-
tion on recently-delivered mothers in rural areas. This
program will have inlputs additional to those sanctioned in
the. Government plan and will be implemented in four Districts
- two in U.P. and two in Mysore.
v.        Second, two new Population Centers in Lucknow and Bangalore to be
primarily responsible for the management-information system and training.
The management-information system would monitor progress in project areas,
evaluate performance and recommend changes that would be relevant to other
parts of India. These Centers should haye close links to the State family
planning administration. Their Board waould have to be influential so that
the recommendations of these Centers can be quickly implemented.
vi.       Third, the following Physical facilities and Equipment:
(a) Two Population Centers in Lucknow and Bangalore City and nine
District Family Planning Bureaus - one in each District
(except Bangalore rural);
(b) Two Regional Family Planning Centers - one in Lucknow and one
in Bangalore;
(c) Two 100-bed maternity hospitals - one in Lucknow, the other in
Bangalore City;
(d) Ten maternity-sterilization wards - one for each District Hospital;
(e) Sixteen Maternity Homes with 15-20 beds and 14 Urban Family Welfare
Centers in Lucknow and Bangalore City;
(f) Complete Primary Health Centers consisting of a dispensary, family
planning clinic and staff living quarters for health and family
planning personnel (according to the Government of India pattern)
in all Districts where these buildings do not presently exist;
and maternity wings (15-20 beds) in selected PHCs of the four
Intensive Districts (Scheme III) in addition to the Government
pattern;
(g)  Subcenters for ANMs (and FWWsin U.P.) according to the Government
of India pattern, in all Districts where these buildings have
not been constructed; and subcenters for dais, in addition to the
Government pattern in the Intensive Districts (Scheme III) of U.P.;
and
(h)  Fourteen ANN Schools - five in Lucknow and Bangalore City and one
school attached to every District Hospital
vii.      Total project costs - consisting of physical facilities and equipment
and technical assistance - are estimated to total Rs.113 million (US$15.1 million).



- iii-
The direct foreign exchange component is about Rs.7.5 million (US$1.00 million).
Recurrent expenditures of the project that are additional to the present
sanctioned level are e!stimated to total Rs.18.6 million (US$3.6 million)
over the first five years. About 59% of project costs and additional
recurrent expenditures are for U.P. State and 41% for Mysore State.
viii.     The Populatiorl project outlined in this report will establish, over
a sizable population (20 million) the base for continuing assessment of the
program with opportunities for variation and experimentation; thus providing
in thie longer term a valuable tool for improvement of the performance of
the whole program.



INDIA POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    In the past few years the international community has become increasingly
concerned with India's family planning program. The annual growth rate of
2.5% and the addition of 14 million persons each year were matters of serious
concern in relation to the efforts at social and economic improvement of the
Government of India.
1.02    In November 1969, at the request of members of the Aid India Consortium,
the Bank organized a special meeting in Stockholm for representatives of the
Consortium countries and representatives of the Government of India to consider
the India program. The meeting discussed in parti' ular the United Nations'
report evaluating India's family planning effort.'    It was agreed that
external assistance could make a significant contribution to the program pro-
vided financing covered local currency expenditures. The Bank indicated that
it was interested in becoming involved in a family planning project. This was
welcomed by donor countries and the Government of India.
1.03    This was further discussed in early 1970 to determine in a preliminary
manner the objectives and location of a possible Bank project. The project
would aim to develop a comprehensive program in the selected districts which
would include the components of the Government of India program but would also
have variations and improvements that are relevant to the whole India program.
This would require a management-information system and an evaluation unit for
assessing the work in the project area on a continuing basis. It was agreed
provisionally that the project area would comprise six districts in Uttar
Pradesh (U.P.) and six districts in Mysore State - covering a total population
of about 20 million persons. This selection of districts was made because the
Bank felt it desirable to be involved iL both North and South India, but in
terms of a manageable project, not more than two States. Mysore was selected
partly because of the wealth of demographic data collected in the UN Mysore
Population Study of 1961. The preliminary selection of districts in both
States was made by the Government of India with the concurrence of the two
State Governments. The mission examined relevant data during its mission and
accepted the districts proposed in Mysore (those in Bangalore Division);
however, in consultation with State and Central Government officials, it
proposed modifications to the districts in U.P. where the project will be
developed.
1.04    The detailed information on family planning, inputs, results and other
demographic and socio-economic data were collected in May and June 1970 in the
selected districts. A preappraisal mission visited India from July 13 to
August 21. It consisted of Messrs. K. Kanagaratnam (Chief), G. Zaidan (Deputy),
and Messrs. P. Demeny (East-West Center - Hawaii University), I. Sirageldin
(Johns Hopkins University), F. Wilder (Ford Foundation) and G. Zatuchni
(Population Council) as consultants. Mr. R. Cassen aind Mr. T. Lankester from
1/ United Nations, October, 1969 "An evaluation of the family planning
program of the Government of India".



i
-2-
the Bank assisted the mission in the field and during report writing in
Washington. Mr. T. Lankester (with research assistants) collected the basic
data (reproduced in Volume II) before the arrival of the preappraisal mission.
The mission was joined during its final week in Inadia by Professor R. Freedman,
the Bank's consultant on population matters.
1.05    The mission spentttwo weeks in New Delhi, ten days in Mysore and
another ten days in U.P.,, Mission members also visited Maharashtra State and
Gandhigram. This report zontains the findings and recommendations of the
mission.
N.



-3-
II. THE POPULATION PROBLEM
2.01    India's population has been growing at a rapid and accelerating rate.
From a total population estimated at 238 million in 1901, India's population
nearly doubled to 439 million in 1961. It is estimated to be 554 million in
1970-1, but the 1971 census may show it to be even higher. More important
than the growth in size, is the increasing rate of growth of the Indian
population. From an average annual growth rate of 0.7% in the 1921-31 period,
the growth rate increased to 2.0% in 1951-61 -- nearly a threefold increase.
The current growth rate is estimated to exceed 2.5%; every year 14 million
persons are added to the population.
2.02    These trends are the result of a more or less constant birth rate
coupled with a rapid decline in mortality, particularly since the second
World War. In 1951-60, the birth rate was officially estimated to be
41.7/1,000 while the death rate was 22.8/1,000. The death rate declined
sharply to an estimated level of 14.0/1,000 in 1966-70. (The expectation of
life at birth increased from 32 years in 1941-51 to an estimated 53 years
1966-70). This decline was due to the success of public health programs --
malaria, smallpox and other major epidemic disease have been substantially
controlled. Also, administrative response to national disasters such as
flood and drought has greatly improved; consequently deaths from famine
and malnutrition have been reduced.
2.03    The population of India is diverse in language, culture, religion
and socio-economic development. It is predominantly Hindu (83.5%) with
significant Muslim (10.7%) and Christian (2.5%) minorities. The population
is predominantly rural, though there has been a slow migration to the towns.
In 1921, 88.8% of the population lived in rural areas; in 1961, the pro-
portion was 82.0%. The population of India is a young population with 41%
of persons aged less than 15 years.
2.04    The previous trends have serious demographic, economic and social
implications:
(a)  The number of eligible couples,- estimated to number 55.1 million in
1970-1, are increasing by more than 1.25 million couples every year.
The growth of the labor force, presently estimated at 200 million,
is projected to increase by 30 million in 1971-5, 35 million in
1976-80, and 41.0 million in 1981-5. All these trends are implied
by the births of the past fifteen years and the expected improvements
in health of children.
(b) Real net national;--product has been growing annually by 3.5% from
1951-66, but because of the population growth rate of 2.1% in 1951-60
and of 2.5% in the sixties, more than 60% of the growth in income has
been absorbed by the increasing population, while living standards
have improved little. More important, the growth of per capita income
has been decreasing - from 1.65% per year in 1951-60 to 0.6% per year
in 1961-6. In more recent years, when economic conditions were
unfavorable, economic growth was insufficient to counter population
1/ To allow for sterile, pregnant and other women not wishing to practice
contraception, this is estimated to be five-ninths of married women
aged 15-44.



-4-
growth. In 1968-9 -- after the years of serious drought of 1965-6
and 1966-7 and a prolonged industrial recession -- per capita income
was still below its 1964-5 level.
(c)  A particularly serious economic and social problem is that of unemploy-
ment. The present level of unemployment and underemployment is very
considerable. Given the projected increase of the labor force and
rough estimates of the present level of unemployment, about 40 million
additional jobs have to be created in 1971-5, and about 75 million
jobs over the next decade.
2.05    While family planning efforts can make a significant difference to
India's growth rate, India's population will continue to grow substantially
for most of this century. Even if fertility declines at a moderate pace,
the Registrar General estimates that India's population will grow to
638 million in 1976 and 702 million in 1981. The UN estimates that India's
population will reach 983 million in 1990, if fertility remains constant.
Even if fertility declines very rapidly -- reaching a birth rate of 25/1,000
in 1975 -- the population will reach 668 million in 1990.
2.06    Uttar Pradesh.   Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) has a population of 91.5
million. It is the largest State of India and one of the poorest. In 1961,
13 percent of the population was living in urban areas and only 3 percent
of the male labor force was in non-household manufacturing industry. The
medical system is exceptionally thin, particularly in rural areas. Levels
of socio-economic development in U.P. vary considerably. Western districts,
where the "green revolution" has had an impact, are the most developed
while socio-economic conditions in the east are far less favorable. Accord-
ing to India's demographic estimates the population of U.P. increased from
56.5 million in 1941 to a present level of 91.5 million.    In 1941-50, the
birth rate was 38.6/1,000 and the death rate 27.2/1,000 giving a growth
rate of 1.1% per year. Because of the rapid decline in the death rate to
a current level of 16/1,000 the growth rate has more than doubled to 2.3% per
year. The demographic, economic and social implications of these trends
are as grave as for the whole of India. For example, per capita income
in constant prices has remained constant irL U.P. from 1961-6.
2.07    Mysore.  Mysore has a population of over 30 million.    In 1961, 22
percent of persons lived in urban areas. Literacy rates are relatively
high by Indian standards and the medical system is better and more wide-
spread than in most other States. The level of economic development is
similar to the Indian average, though the southern part of the State
(Bangalore Division) where a sizeable industrial sector has developed,
is well above the average. The State has a reputation for efficient and
enlightened administration. Mysore's population grew from 7.4 million in
1941 to 23.6 million in 1961. It is currently estimated to number 30
million with an annual growth rate of 2.4%. The birth rate is estimated
to be 39.1/1,000 while the death rate is 15.1/1,000.



-5-
III. THE FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
3.01    Brief History.   Although the Government adopted a policy favoring
family planning in the First Five-year Plan (1951-55), the program consisted
mainly of a few pilot projects and some studies during this period. In the
Second Plan (1956-61), the program expanded; a national organization was set
up, clinics for providing family planning services were opened, various train-
ing centers were established, and sterilization as a method of contraception
was given official support. In 1963, an "Extended Program", designed to pro-
vide family planning services to the rural population through the health
services, was adopted. Program targets were set to reduce the birth rate to
25/1,000 in 1975. The "cafeteria" approach offering a choice of several con-
traceptive methods, was introduced.       In succeeding years the "Extended
Program" was steadily implemented while other significant developments took
place. In particular, a separate Department of Family Planning was created
in the Ministry of Health; compensation payments to acceptors of steriliza-
tions and IUDs were introduced; the "Intensive District Program" and the
"Selected Area Program" were designed to give priority to densely populated
districts, or groups of contiguous districts; demographic and bio-medical
research was expanded; selected hospitals in various cities of India received
special assistance for postpartum family planning work; and country-wide
schemes for the commercial distriblution of condoms at subsidized rates were
introduced. The following sections concentrate on developments in recent years.
A. ORGANIZATION
Central Level.
3.02    The indian Family Planning program is a centrally sponsored program
financed almost entirely by the Central Government (Government of India).
The Center lays down standards of staffing and facilities (the Government of
India pattern). However, responsibility for implementing the program rests
with the State Governments. At the Center a small Cabinet Committee, chaired
by the Finance Minister expedites policy decisions and reviews program
progress. Policies for the Center and States are laid down by the Central
Family Planning Council, which is chaired by the Health Minister, and includes
the Minister of State responsible for family planning, the State Health
Ministers, and representatives of organizations working in family planning.
3.03    In 1966, a Department of Family Planning headed by a Secretary was
established in the Ministry of Health. It plays a dominant role in the India
family planning program because it is responsible for budgetary planning and
financial control. It is divided into:
(a) an administrative section concerned with planning and budgeting,
administration and aided programs;
(b) a technical section responsible for services, training, research,
supplies and evaluation; and
(c)  The Nirodh Marketing Organization, responsible for the distribution
of condoms throughout the country.



-6-
The Department also has direct operational responsibility for programs in
Union Territories (with a population of 14 million), and the Central
Government employees programs (10 million employees). The organization chart
at the Center and the composition of relevant committees is shown in Annex 1.
3.04    In addition to the Central Family Planning Council, the Government of
India is linked to the State Governments by six Regional Directors. The
Northern Region consists of the State of Uttar Pradesh alone, with a Regional
Director in Lucknow. Mysore is part of the Southern Region with a Regional
Director in Bangalore. The Regional Director is an employee of the Central
Government. He has no executive responsibilities buit he can be influential
because of his close working relationship with State officials.
State Level.
3.05    The basic organizational structure is more or less similar in every
State though some differences exist in U.P. Responsibility for family planning
activities are part of the functions of the Health Secretary and the Director
of Medical Services for Health and Family Planning. A high level
Implementation Committee has been constituted in several States to review
program progress . In Mysore, the committee is headed by the Chief Secretary
with senior representatives of Health, Finance and other Departments includ-
ing the Development Commissioner and Chief Engineer. In U.P., the equivalent
committee exists mainly on paper and has not yet come io play an important
role. Program administration is the responsibility of the Deputy Director of
Health and Family Planning who is the State Family Planning Officer (SFPO).
He heads the State Family Planning Bureau (SFPB) which is responsible for the
appointment of District staff, general administration and coordination of
State programs, supervision of District efforts, training of field workers,
communication, and supply and maintenance of vehicles. Annex 2 shows the
organization at the State level.
District and Field Levels.
3.06    In effect, the District is the main administrative unit of program-imple-
mentation (Annex 3). Typically, it has a population of 1.5 - 2.0 million and an
area of about 5,000 square miles. Each District has an Action Committee,
chaired by the head of the District Administration (known as Collector, Deputy
Comnmissionaer or District Magistrate) to coordinate and expedite family planning
work. The District Medical Officer of Health (DMOH) is the head of the public
health service in the District. In most States, a District Family Planning
Officer (DFPO) has been added to be responsible for family planning. In U.P.,
the organization of the District was recently revised to achieve a closer
integry,aion of health and family planning. Family planning has been added to
the resp,onsibilities of the DMOH, (renamed as District Medical Officer of
Health and Family Planning (DMOH-FP), while the DFPO has become an additional
DMOH-FP and is now subordinate to the DMOH-FP. The DFPO, or additional
DMOH-FP, heads the District Family Planning Bureau (DFPB). The main
responsibilities of this Bureau are to supervise and manage all program
activities in the field, organize efforts of governmental units, supervise the
voluntary organizations receiving Government subsidies and stimulate the
active participation of industrial employers, private physicians, etc.
3.07    The Indian family planning organization is closely interwoven with the
general provision of health services, particularly at the field level. There
are distinct budgets for health and for family planning, but each functionr4



-7-
relies on the other to varying extents for the provision of services. Thus
the basic unit for the provision of health services in rural areas is the
Primary Health Center (PHC) covering one Development Block, which is a
District subdivision with 80,000 to 100,000 people. A typical District will
have 15-20 PHCs, varying in distance between each other from 10 to 100 miles.
When staffed and equipped for family planning, the PHC is called the Rural
Family Welfare Planning Center (RFWPC).   Its basic staff consists of
additional medical and paramedical personnel most of whom also contribute to
the public health work of the PHC1. Conversely, staff provided to the PHC
under the health budget, also perform family planning work. The Government
of India staffing pattern for each RFPWC is as follows:
- two doctors, one in the health budget, the other in the family
planning budget;
- one block extension educator (BEE);
- one computor-statistician;
- one storekeeper cum accountant;
- one lady health visitor (LHV) per 40,000 population;
- one male family planning health assistant (FPHA) per 20,000
population
- two auxiliary nurse-midwives (ANMs), one under the health budget,
the other under the family planning budget.
3.08    Each PHC has under it 8-10 subcenters staffed with one ANM per sub-
center. The Government of India pattern provides for one subcenter or ANM
per 10,000 persons in addition to the ANMs at the PHC. Three of the ANMs
at the subcenter level are under the health budget while the remainder (five
to seven) are in the family planning budget. The facilities and services
that they provide are identical, regardless of the source of funding. In U.P.,
where there is a grave shortage of ANMs, ANMs under family planning are sub-
stituted by Family Welfare Workers (FWW), and ANMs under the health budget
by trained indigenous midwives (dais).
Urban Areas.
3.09    According to the Government of India Plan, urban areas should have a
City Bureau equivalent to the District Bureau. The City Bureau is responsible
to the'-municipalDauthorities and not to the District Administration.   City
Bureaus should coordinate family planning activities in large cities. These
activities include the provision of family planning services by:
(a) Urban Family Welfare Planning Centers (UFWPC), which are sanctioned
at the rate of one per 50,000 population in the Government of India
pattern;
(b) voluntary organizations such as the Christian Medical Association, Red
Cross, India Family Planning Association (IFPA) etc.:



-8-
(c) the Municipal Corporation which Operates maternity homes in some
cities e.g. Bangalore (but not in Lucknow); and
(d) postpartum programs in maternity hospitals.
The City Bureau is also responsible for involving persons such as private
doctors, Government employees. and employees in industry, in the family
planning program. While all these are the functions of the City Bureaus in
principle the Bureau has not functioned effectively in Bangalore, while
Lucknow does not yet have such a Bureau.
B. THE STATISTICAL SYSTEM
3.10    At the State level, Demographic and Evaluation Cells have been author--
ized recently in the State Family Planning Bureau to streamline service
statistics. A Statistical Assistant is provided in the District Bureau and a
computor (compilation clerk) at the Block level. At the District level, each
Bureau has a District Field Operation and Evaluation Division consisting of
one statistical investigator and two field and evaluation workers. The
statistical investigator does mainly clerical work; collecting the routine
performance data from the various health centers, checking the returns,
correcting and adding, and filing summary forms to the State Bureau. Systematic
field checking of the accuracy of the data, analysis of the data, and the
preparation of reports on internal performance (e.g. worker productiviLy) is
not being done. This is due to the inadequate analitical capability of the
District Bureau and because these management functions are not considered to
be part of the responsibility of the District Bureaui. For a further des-
cription of the statistical system see Annex 5.
Information
3.11    Standard formats for records, registers and returns have been developed
by the Center. Each unit offering family planning services including clinical
work, distribution of conventional contraceptives, education and motivational
work is required to maintain registers. The units report these data every
month to the main Family Welfare Planning Center (usually the PHC) where it
is aggregated and forwarded to the District Family Planning Bureau. In the
District, the data are again aggregated and forwarded to the District Family
Planning Bureau. In the District, the data are again aggregated before being
submitted to the State. Finally the State again aggregates these data and
sends it to the Center.
3.12    These successive aggregations mean that much of the detailed data that
arecollected in the field is not transmitted to higher levels. Such a loss of
information occurs particularly between the PHC level and the District Bureau.
In short, a large amount of data is lost, and what remains is not adequately
analysed.
3.13    Furthermore, there is a clear dichotomy ard separation in the reporting
system between cost data and performance data.   The Statistical Assistant at
the District Bureau is only responsible for performance statistics while the
accountant is only responsible for cost data. This situation is also true at
the State level. Financial accounts and physical achievements of various
program activities are not correlated.



-9-
Evaluation
3.14    Internal evaluation is  a major responsibility of the Department of
Family Planning. The Department issues a monthly set of statements by State
on population, sanctioned staff in position .at State and District levels,
numbers of Urban and Rural Family Welfare Centers required and functioning,
sterilization and IUD program progress, and the number of persons trained in
various courses. These reports are supplemented by progress reports of the
Regional Directors and by tour reports of officials of the Family Planning
Department. An Annual Report is also issued by the Ministry of Health which
contains various details on the program. The State Bureau issues monthly and
annual reports, but not as comprehensive as those of the Center. Monthly
acceptance rates are generally limited to the total number of acceptors of
different methods of family planning. There is no systematic and periodic
analysis of data on different characteristics of acceptors, though such
information is often collected at the peripheral level.
C. FAMILY PLANNING PROGRESS
3.15    The following table summarizes progress and expenditures in family
planning in India, U.P. and Mysore:
India
Condoms        Family Planning
Sterilizations    IUDs        Distributed         Expenditures
(000's)       (000's)        (000's)           (Million Rs)
1965-6           670            810           24,000             120
1966-7           890            910           16,000             134
1967-8         1,840            670           24,000             265
1968-9         1,660            480           59,000             305 (revised)
1969-70        1,370            440           95,000             400 (revised)
Uttar Pradesh
1965-6            40             45              NA               NA
1966-7            80            107            1,400              14.6
1967-8           159            103            2,200              26.6
1968-9           156             91            6,200              37.6
1969-70           78             81            8,400              NA
Mysore
1965-6            26             76              NA               NA
1966-7            52             88              NA                8.8
1967-8           110             41              NA               13.0
1968-9            92             20              NA               12.7
1969-70           49             13              NA               13.0



-10-
These figures show the same pattern in India, U.P. and Mysore. Sterilizations
(male and female) increased up to 1967-8 but have since markedly declined. In
1969-70, they were less than one-half their peak level in both U.P. and Mysore,
although tubal sterilization increased in the last two years. IUDs reached
their peak in 1966-7, and have since declined to less than one-half their peak
level. However, there has been close to a fourfold increase in the distribution
of condoms between 1967-8 and 1969-70. The total number of new acceptors
decreased from 3.43 million in 1968-9 to 3.23 million in 1969-70. These achieve-
ments, though large in number, are insufficient when compared with the more than
1.25 million eligible couples that are being added every year. These figures
were derived by adding to reported sterilizations, IUD instertions, an estimate
of the number of condom users, on the assumption that 72 condoms equals one
acceptor. On this basis, about 15% of India's eligible couples were estimated
to be protected by the program in March 1970. In Uttar Pradesh, the total
number of acceptors has declined between 1967-8 and 1969-70. This is almost
certainly true for Mysore as well though figures for condom distribution were
not available. What is particularly disturbing is that this decline has been
associated with large increases in resources going into family planning.
Expenditures between 1966-7 and 1969-70 have increased by three times for India
as a whole. The cost per practising acceptor has more than doubled over this
period -- from Rs 60 to Rs 124 per acceptor. If the number of condom users is
based on the ratio of 144 condoms per acceptor instead of 72 (an equally
plausible ration) then the cost per acceptor will have increased to Rs 207 per
acceptor -- more than a threefold increase.
Inputs - All India
3.16    The increase in financial resources is a reflection of the rapid expan-
sion of personnel and equipment for family planning. However, personnel and
equipment still fall short of the sanctioned Government of India pattern. By
March 1970, 318 out of India's 327 Districts had District Bureaus and two-thirds
of the sanctioned technical staff in these Bureaus were in position compared
with one-half in 1968. There were 4,812 Rural Family Welfare Planning Centers,
up by one-third since 1966, but still 600 short of the target; also 29,000 sub-
centers were functioning versus only 7,000 in 1966. Finally, Urban Family
Planning Centers increased by one-third since 1966. This expansion has been
accompanied by a huge recruitment of personnel -- 150,000 persons are now
employed in the program. However, a large proportion have been inadequately
trained, impairing the effectivness of the program. Progress in construction
has been very modest and much of the program is carried out in crowded and
barely working facilities, which are often rented. The backlog of training and
buildings is readily recognized in India, and efforts are currently being made
to remedy it.
Inputs - Uttar Pradesh
3.17    U.P. has had particular difficulty in implementing the Government of
India program. This has been partly because of the shortages of personnel and
facilities in U.P. but also because the State Government has not accorded the
program the priority which it deserves. In all the U.P. Districts, District
Bureaus have been established. Five of the Districts were without an additional
DMOH-FP and various posts, including that of administrative officer, computor
and field and evaluation workers, had not yet been sanctioned. Most positions
that are sanctioned for Bureaus have been filled, with the notable exception
of female doctors. Here, 84 are sanctioned but only 29 are posted.



-11-
3.18    At the field level, there are presently 740 PHCs functioning with only
630 doctors in position. Thus 110 PHCs are without a doctor at all, and the
other 630 do not have a second doctor as envisaged in the Government of India
pattern. FPHAs number 3,500 at present, almost the required number. Amongst
ANMs, the staff shortage is perhaps worst of all. According to the Government
of India pattern,there should be 1,750 ANMs at PHCs, and 7,500 at subcenters,
making 9,250 in all. In fact, the total number in position at present is
2,046.  Some attempt has been made to alleviate the ANM gap hty posting indi en-
ous midwives (dais) who have been trained and Family Welfaru Workers (FWW)'1
there are 1,454 trained dais and 2,140 FWWs substituting for ANMs at subcenters.
However, FWWs and dais are believed to be less effective than ANMs because of
inadequate training. The mission's observations in the field and examination
of some local records confirm a general impression that the FPHAsare ineffective.
3.19    On construction, 400 PHCs have a dispensary of their own;   38 family
planning clinics have been constructed and 40 are under construction leaving
a balance of almost 800. Of the 7,500 subcenters required, only 216 have so
far been built; another 163 are under construction. In the ten Districts where
information was collected, only about 15 percent of the PHCs had vehicles.
3.20    The family planning program in urban areas has more personnel and better
facilities. There are 212 Urban Family Welfare Planning Centers (147 State,
34 local bodies, 28 voluntary organizations, 13 bodies in the public sector),
which for an urban population of about 16 million is probably adequate. Five
hospitals have been designed for the postpartum program.
Inputs - Mysore
3.21    At the District level, the 19 District Bureaus are adequately staffed
as to number and category except for (a) administrative officers, who have been
sanctioned but none of whom are in position; and (b) female doctors, of whom
9 are in position instead of the 19 required.
3.22    In rural areas, there are 265 PHCs in Mysore.   These centers had 348
doctors in position in June 1970 leavI-ng a gap of 182. There are vacancies in
other positions. Compared with the 265 required for each, there are 183 exten-
sion educators, 246 statisticians and 178 storekeepers cum accountants. There
are nearly 900 FPHAs posted compared with the 1,100 or so required, and 300
LHVs compared with a requirement of 530. Thus, there are quite substantial
staffing gaps. The situation, however, looks considerably different when
account is taken of the large network of the "Myscre Type Health Units" and
dispensaries. These were mostly established before the Government of India
pattern was proposed, and now continue to function beside it, doing both health
and family planning work. In all there are about 700 such units functioning in
rural areas. Most of these have a doctor in position.
3.23    As regards ANMs there should according to the Government of India
pattern be about 2,700 of them, and there are now 2,650 (in all types of health
units) which, on a population basis, exceeds by several times the number avail-
able in most of north India.
1/ Dai training consists of 20 lessons in hygiene and basic obstetrics and
20 practical sessions with an ANM. FWWs are female workers dealing with
with Family Planning; they are given just 30 days training at a Regional
Family Planning Training Center.



-12-
3.24    Most of the Mysore Type Health Units and dispensaries have buildings
of their own, many of them old but mostly fairly adequate. So far 136 PHC
dispensaries have been constructed, the remaining 129 being housed in rented
buildings. Very few family planning clinics have yet been completed, though
about 25 are under construction. Almost everywhere, staff quarters for both
medical and family planning staff are lacking. This includes subcenters, of
which out of the 2,200 required, only 147 have been constructed   normally the
ANM has to rent her own dwelling. Of these 265 PHCs, only 69 have a vehicle.
3.25    In urban areas, there are 53 Urban Family Planning Centers, and 3
hospitals designated for the postpartum program. Several other hcspitals, a
number of MCH centers and maternity homes (mainly in Bangalore) also do family
planning work.
Special Programs
3.26    Because India is so large, and its resources are limited, the Government
has encouraged the concept of concentrating on particular areas. This is the
basis of the intensive and selected areas program. The intensive program aims
at adding inputs - above the Government of India pattern - in a few Districts
with large population in each State. These areas have not exhibited a more
marked progress than the average, mainly because, in practice, they have
received only minor additional inputs.
3.27    Selected Area Project.   In June 1968, USAID concluded an agreement for
assistance to the Selected Area Program, to be carried out in the Varanasi
Division of Uttar Pradesh. Inputs were to be intensified. In fact, limited
funds were distributed, and the additional inputs that are in position are minor.
3.28    Gandhigram.  The Gandhigram experiment covering initially one Block in
Tamil Nadu has proved successful. In 1959 the Institute of Rural Health and
Family Planning in Gandhigram started an intensive "action-research" family
planning program in a Development Block. Methods of implementation have been
continuously assessed and periodically modified. There has been a significant
decline in fertility -- 34.8% during the period 1959-68. While some inputs were
added, the program has been successful mainly because of emphasis on quality --
through field training and regular supervision. It has been run by regular
State Health Officials under the overall technical guidance of the Institute and
illustrates the possibility of successful close cooperation with the Government
program. Work in the first Block (with a population of about 100,000) is now
being expanded to five neighboring Blocks. The Institute has used the program
to test new techniques such as the roles of different categories of family
planning workers, evolved more adequate supervision and developed skill and
knowledge needed by staff in other extension work. On the basis of the action-
research program the Institute has built up a successful training program.
Though Gandhigram demonstrates that success can be achieved -- that is, that
there may be a large demand for family planning services -- this applies to an
area of limited size. The problems of training and supervision become more com-
plex when applied to a whole District. Furthermore, the Gandhigram experiment
included improvements in health and community development, which are not part of
family planning efforts in the All-India context.
Foreign Aid
3.29    Early assistance (1959-60) to the Indian Program was from the Ford



-13-
Foundation and the Population Council for fellowships and consultants. Later
assistance also came from bi-lateral sources including the United States,
Sweden, Japan and Denmark. This consisted primarily of providing commodities
and consultancy services. The United Nations has also helped the program
through the UNDP, WHO and UNICEF. Multi-lateral aid consisted primarily of
equipment, experts, fellowships and two teams to evaluate the Government program.
Until 1969, donors financed foreign exchange costs. In that year, however, bi-
lateral and multi-lateral donors became prepared to finance local currency
expenditures, because the foreign exchange component was small and restricted
opportunities for assistance. Following the November 1969 Consortium in
Stockholm, and the May 1970 meeting in Paris    several offers of aid for local
currency finance have been made. They includeUS$ 2.4 million from the United
Kingdom, and US$ 20.0 million granted by the United States in June 1970 for
training and evaluation, construction of buildings, and support for the Inten-
sive District program. Sweden, Norway and Canada are among other countries
likely to conclude new agreements of a similar nature to assist the India program.
IPPF and Oxfam are two of the most important sources of support for voluntary
family planning in India.
D. APPRAISAL OF RECENT TRENDS
3.30    While the achievements of the India program are considerable the program
is not functioning as well as it should or could. A large number of persons
have accepted family planning services and an extensive and complex administra-
tive machine to implement policy decisions has been built. But performance
falls short of a solution of India's population problem, of the targets set by
the Go,rernment and the expectations of the Government.   This is the more dis-
turbing because resources for family planning have greatly increased. The
"productivity" of the program -- that is, the results obtained from each rupee
spent -- has fallen to between one-half and one-third its level from two years
back. The mission attempted to find explanations for recent developments,
particularly the reversal of trends, but found no simple explanations. Nor was
there a consensus on the reasons among persons who met the mission. Many reasons
were mentioned but the relative importance of each, and the implications that
this has for future progress, must await further analysis and study.
3.31    Generally, the possible reasons for the program's inadequate performance
can be grouped under several headings:
3.32    Administrative:   The family planning program is administered neither
better nor worse than other Government of India programs. However, this is a
program which requires management far above the average to achieve success.
Particular weaknesses are the following:
(a) persistence of inefficiencies due to inadequate supervision and the
difficulty of dismissing personnel for poor performance;
(b) flow of adequate information to administrators about what is happening
in the field or about the reasons for trends that are reported;
(c) insufficient financial flexibility, particularly at the District level;
(d) no overall program design or coordination among the various groups
offering family planning services in cities;



-14-
(e) reliance of the Health Ministry and State Health Departments on other
agencies which do not perform this function satisfactorily. For
example, construction work is undertaken by State Public Works Depart-
ment which do not give priority to family planning work. Similar
difficulties arise in transportation where vehicle maintenance is
handled by the State Transport Organization.
3.33    Quantity and Quality of Personnel:   To implement the Government pattern,
India has embarked on an ambitious training program that is the largest in the
world. In doing so, more attention has been given to numbers than quality.
This "crash approach" has resulted in large numbers of poorly selected, ill-
motivated and inadequately trained persons. Such persons can have negative
effects on the program. A training program of six days' or even 30 days'
duration is inadequate. Insufficient emphasis i.s given to field training and
particularly to supervision in the field. Aggravating the situation still
further are excessive training loads because of the insufficient number of
trainers. In spite of the crash approach to training, numbers are still short
of the Government of India pattern, which would cover only one-third to one-half
of the India population even if it were implemented according to plan. This
situation is a reflection of the small number of skilled personnel. The small
number of doctors, particularly lady doctors, has already been emphasized, as
had the inadequate number of ANMs. The inadequacy of their basic training is
discussed in para. 4.22.
3.34    Contraceptive Methods:   In principle, the India program offers a
"cafeteria" approach. In practice, choice of different methods in rural areas
is limited. According to the Plan, women should be able to have an IUD insert-
ion at the PHC provided a lady doctor is there. This is rare in U.P. and only
a little less rare in Mysore. Also the reported side effects have undermined
the popularity of the IUD and the difficulty of follow-up reduces its effect-
iveness. In practice, rural women seeking contraception, resort to steriliza-
tion after having had at least three children. Even this is done only in
hospitals or camps. Men fare better in that vasectomies are available at most
PHCs and hospitals. Other than this "feared" operation, rural men have no other
choice except for condoms - the least effective of the methods offered in the
program.
3.35    The reasons for the declining performance in recent years is a more
relevant question but also more difficult to answer. The following are some
possibilities.
i. The "Crash" Approach to the Provisions of Services. Because of the
political priority given to this program, and following the setting
of targets in 1966, there was too much concern with immediate
results and too little with methods of achieving these results and
their long-term implications. Revenue workers and agricultural
extension workers were active in 1966-7 and 1967-8, using their
influence to enlist a large proportion of acceptors. The use of
these workers was a useful support to the program. This is much
less so and may-explain the recent decline in performance.
ii. Monetary Incentives. This was first offered in 1966 and was one
reason for the increase in vasectomies in the following two years



-15-
when harvests were bad. (Most of the acceptors came from the
lower castes). The recent decline irL sterilizations may be due
to the smaller effect that these incentives have in years when
economic conditions are more favorable
iii.  Training.  It is possible that the "crash" approach to training
has had adverse effects which are now beginning to be felt - in
particular with respect to FPHAs, many of whom have been put on
the job with little (6 days) or no training.
3.36    Information and Evaluation:   Though program performance has declined,
there have been no special reports from the District to the State or from the
State to the Center showing concern for this or an analysis of these trends.
Conversely, though much research is going on in India and abroad, r-nuch of
this research is not related to program operations, and when it does have
policy implications, there is a reluctance to translate research findings
into changed action progrELms. This lack of interaction is a reflection of the
weakness of the statistic:l system (Annex 5 contains a further appraisal of
the information and evaluation system). It may be due to the following:
(a) The Demographic Cells in Bangalore and Lucknow are too low in the
hierarchical structure to do independent evaluation and question some
of the basic premises of the program. At present, the Demographic
Cells are geared to the analysis of service statistics. These cannot
adequately explain program limitations because of the relatively small
number of acceptors in the program.
(b)  More generally, there is inadequate analytic capability at the State
and District levels, to evaluate the quality of data, supervise its
collection and flow and analyse it.
(c) The present information system has several limitations:
i.   The large number of records at the lowest levels is inefficient
from an operation and management point of view;
ii.   Most of the effort of collecting detailed data is wasted;   data
is aggregated and most of the detail is never transmitted to higher
levels for analysis; instead, it remains largely in disaggregated
form at the PHC level;
iii.   Records and reports are not kept adequately at the lower units,
nor are they designed for speedy data processing;
iv.   Performance and cost data are collected, aggregated, and analysed
separately at all levels;
v.   Achievement data collected in the system refer only to participat-
ing couples. This has limited value in explaining the level of
demand for family planning services or in suggesting improvements.
No efforts are made to relate additional studies to the problems
of the program.



-16-
3.37    While the foregoing summarizes some of the difficulties of the program,
the mission also observed encouraging signs that deserve mention. Among these
are the following.
3.38    Knowledge and Awareness.  Several studies show, and the observations of
the mission confirm, that awarenes.s of conatraceptive methods is present in both
urban and rural areas, This is a tribute to the success of the mass communica-
tions campaign. However, the gap between general awareness and effective
knowledge and practice is wide and may even have increased because of this very
success.
3.39    Potential for Improved Performance.  Not only has success on a limited scale
been demonstrated (e.g. Gandhigram), but more to the point, large areas have
markedly different rates of performance, suggesting that overall performance
can be improved. Among States there is mujch variability. In 1968-9, the
number of sterilizations per 1,000 populaition varied from 1.0 in Assam to 5.5
in Maharashtra. IUD insertions varied from 0.2 in Maharashtra to 3.0 in Haryana.
Equally, large variations exist between Districts of the same State. While this
is partly due to the large variety of conditions prevaiiing in India, it is also
the result of varying ineffectiveness in the provision of these services. More
or less similar Districts that have very different performance rates (varying
by a factor of two or three) can be found. This suggests that there is potential
for substantial progress.
3.40    In summary, the Indian family planning program is not functioning as well
as it should or could. Is this due to the way in which family planning services
are provided or to the demand by the popu:Lation for such services? This, and
many other questions relevant to the program operation, have not been asked by
persons within or outside the program. The study of such questions is a
necessary first step to reverse present trends.  The basic aim of the mission's
recommendations is to provide a framework for orderly change. Operational
questions should be continuously and systematically asked and the policy implica-
tions of their answers should be speedily and effectively implemented.



-17-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. INTRODUCTION
4.01    The project will cover twelve Districts, six in Mysore State and six
in U.P. with a total estimated population of 19.85 million in 1970.   Its
objectives are to:
(a) implement the Government pattern for providing family planning services,
and add inputs in some areas to test alternatives to this pattern;
(b) provide a management-information and evaluation system (MIES) to
evaluate performance and recommend changes;
(c) ensure that the recommendations that subsequently emerge are speedily
implemented in the project area or on a wider basis if appropriate;
and
(d) provide the necessary facilities and technical assistance to implement
the above.
4.02    The project consists of the following:
A.   The provision of family planning services in the following ways:
I.  An UrbaPgram including a particular concentration on postpartum
motivation and service in Lucknow (U.P.) and Bangalore City (Mysore);
II. An Optimal Government of India Program to implement the Government
pattern in-Lwelve Districts -- six in U.P. and six in Mysore; and
III.  An Intensive Rural Program including a particular concentration on
recently delivered mothers in rural areas.   This program will have
inputs additional to those sanctioned in the Government plan and
will be implemented in four Districts -- two in U.P. and two in
Mysore.
4.03    To control for differences in the levels of socio-economic development,
the second and third schemes would be implemented in at least one District with
relatively advanced socio-economic conditions and at least one with relatively
backward conditions. Differences in socio-economic conditions would be present
within each District so that the demand for family planning services can be
analysed within as well as between Districts. The following is the suggested
location of each scheme:
I.        Urban Program          Lucknow City        Bangalore Urban
II        Optimal Government      Sultanpur,         Tumkur, Shimoga,
of India Districts     Muzaffarnagar,      Bangalore Rural
Pratapgarah
III.      Intensive Rural        Faizabad,           Kolar,
Program Districts      Saharanpur          Chitradurga



-18-
4.03    B.   A new Population Center in Lucknow and another in Bangalore to be
primarily responsible for the management-information system and training. The
management-information system would monitor progress in project areas, evaluate
performance and recommend changes that would be relevant to other parts of
India. These Centeis should have close links to the State family planning
administration. Their Board would have to be influential so that the recommenda-
tions of these Centers can be quickly implemented.
4.04    C.   Physical facilities, equipment (and in some cases vehicles) for
the following:
(a) Two Population Centers in Lucknow and Bangalore City and nine District
Family Planning Bureaus -- one in each District (except Bangalore rural);
(b) Two Regional Family Planning Centers -- one in Lucknow and one in
Bangalore;
(c) Two 100-bed maternity hospitals -- one in Lucknow, the other in
Bangalore City;
(d) Ten maternity-sterilization wards -- one for each District Hospital;
(e) Sixteen Maternity Homes with 15-20 beds and 14 Urban Family Welfare
Centers in Lucknow and Bangalore City;
(f) Complete Primary Health Centers consisting of a dispensary, family
planning clinic and staff living quarters for health and family
planning personnel (according to the Government of India pattern) in
all Districts where these buildings do not presently exist; and
maternity wings (15-20 beds) in selected PHCs of the four Intensive
Districts (Scheme III) in addition to the Government pattern;
(g) Subcenters for ANMs and 5TWW in U.P.) according to the Government of
India pattern, in all Districts where these buildings have not been
constructed; and subcenters for dais, in addition to the Government
pattern in the Intensive Districts (Scheme III ) of U.P.; and
(h) Fourteen ANM Schools - five in Lucknow and Bangalore City and one
school attached to every District Hospital
4.05    The following sections describe each of the three schemes, the basic
training of ANMs, the Population Centers, the physical facilities and equip-
ment, and the costs of the project.
B. URBAN PROGRAM
4.06    In situations where all fertile women are given-institutional maternity
care, there exists an excellent opportunity to provide them and their husbands,
with family planning information and services. Experience in the postpartum
program of India indicates that 30% or more of women who deliver in hospital
accept some method of contraception. In some Indian hospitals, 60% of women
with three or more children have accepted sterilization. What is needed is
a formal program to contact every couple in the antenatal period and particularly
during the confinement and postpartum period. Voluntary agencies and private
physicians can support this urban postpartum program in the areas of information



-19-
- motivation and services, including follow-up. Their efforts as those of all
facilities other than maternity institutions should be directed to all aspects
of family planning work. The following are the components of the urban program:
4.07     Organization.  There is urgent need for better coordination of family
planning activities, both public and private. The Urban Family Planning Bureau
in Bangalore is at present less effective than it should be, and no bureau has
so far been established in Lucknow. Some effective coordinating body should be
established in each city (a) to draw up a detailed plan of operation to provide
riaternal and child health (MCH) care and family planning services (integrated
or separate) covering the whole city; and, once the plan is adopted, (b) to co-
ordinate services, supplies, information efforts and the collection of relevant
data. The data would be analysed by the Population Center. The Center would
work closely with this body in planning, and evaluating family planning activities.
It might be composed of selected members of the State Government representing
Health, Education, Industry and others; representatives of the Municipal
Corporation; and private and public voluntary agencies. It should include the
Director of the Evaluation Division in the Population Center. The question
should be considered whether it is appropriate for such a body to report to
the Municipal Bureau.
4.08     Training.  Persons not presently trained by the Regional Family Planning
Training Centers (RFPTC) such as private doctors and some of the hospital staff
would be trained by the Population Center.
4.09     Communication.  In addition to present activities, the following should
be emphasized:
i.   seminars, lectures, materials are necessary to mot.Lvate employees of
the Government, the industrial sector and others who are not presently
being sufficiently motivated; and
ii.   increased efforts to involve opinion leaders through mass media should
start in the urban areas. It would rapidly extend to the Intensive
Districts, to other project areas and to the whole State. The present
staff at the State level -- one officer, an editor and an artist --
are inadequate for a population of 95 million in U.P. and 30 million
in Mysore. The system of direct mailing of family planning materials
to opinion leaders, presently in existence in New Delhi, should be
used in Mysore and U.P. Material for this purpose (bulletins, news-
letters etc.) should be developed. It would include information on
recent progress, policy changes, technical information, etc.
4.10     The foregoing are only some of the components of the urban program.
The detailed plan which the Urban Council will draw up could include other
components -- for example, oral pills could be offered in the program, a plan
for contacting and following up women who do not deliver in institutions could
be implemented (particularly in Lucknow where this proportion is large),
larger incentives could be offered to private doctors.
C. OPTIMAL GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PATTERN DISTRICTS
4.11     The objective of this part of the project is to determine how effect-
ive the Government of India pattern is. An answer to this question has not
been possible to date because this pattern has not been fully implemented.
The progress of the program will depend on the efficiency with which family
planning services are provided and the demand for the services by the



-20-
population. To help to determine the relative importance of each of these
factors, the Government program will be implemented in Districts with relatively
advanced socio-economic conditions and Districts with backward conditions. This
program includes two major components:
4.12    a.  Personnel.   All the personnel sanctioned in the Government of India
pattern should be in position. The gaps which presently exist in the project
areas are shown in detail in Volume II. They are summarized in Annex 6. Whether
these gaps can be filled within a reasonable period of time by transfer from
other districts into the project area or by stepping up the rate of training
will require further discussion. In some cases this may be difficult or
impossible as for example with lady doctors. At the same time more personnel
will have to be trained so that the Government pattern can be implemented over
the whole State.
4.13    b.  Training.   The quality of personnel is as important as their number.
Training and supervision should be improved on the basis of the Government plan.
Responsibility for this would be primarily that of the RFPTCs, which presently
do most of the family planning training. There are seven RFPTCs in U.P. and
six in Mysore. The training they provide is too short to be effective --
doctors are trained for 7 days, LHVs and FPHAs for 30 or 7 days (thle latter
is the "crash" program), BEE and ANMs for 30 days. The capabilities of the
RFPTCs in Lucknow and Bangalore should be strengthened to allow the retraining
of family planning workers (medical officers, LHVs, FPHAs and others presently
trained in the RFPTCs), and the more intensive training of new personnel.
The RFPTCs will concentrate initially on six Districts and retrain family
planning personnel in less than two years. This can then be extended to
other Districts in the project area and ultimately to the whole State. Teach-
ing staff will have to be expanded from the present 22 sanctiolned positions
to 32; and the present inadequate facilities and hostel accommodations will
have to be replaced. The Population Center's Training Division will work
closely with the RFPTC in the development of curricula and materials and in
evaluating the effectiveness of the training program.
D. INTENSIVE RURAL PROGRAM DISTRICTS
4.14    This part of the project would consist of the Government of India
pattern (i.e. thte components of the preceding section) plus additional inputs
to be outlined in this section. To control for the effect of demand conditions,
this program would be implemented in a relatively advanced District and a
relatively backward one in each. State.
4.15    This program is focused on providing a minimum standard of maternity,
child care and family planning services to all eligible persons. It is based
on the well proven concept that the postpartum period is the best time to
inform women about contraceptive methods. Not only are women most receptive
to advice at this time, but they have confidence in the personnel providing
MCH care. Also, family planning services can be easily followed up. Finally,
the more successful is better MCH care in reducing infant-mortality, the
greater the motivation towards adopting family planning. The components of
area:
(a) a redefinition of the role of personnel in the program;
(b) the use of mobile teams for service and motivation;



-21-
(c) intensive on-the-job training and supervision;
(d) special efforts in communication; and
(e) organization.
4.16    a.   Personnel.   The role of the various categories of personnel would
be as follows
i. ANMs and Dais. MCH services and family planning will be provided under
medical supervision by ANMs in Mysore and by ANMs and dais in U.". The
targeted ratio will be one ANM and dai per 5,000 population equal to
about 200 deliveries per year. This ratio will be flexible depending,
in particular, upon the topography of the area.    It is a minimum stand-
ard, since ideally there should be one medical attendant per 2,500
population.  Many dais will have a clinic with living quarters, and in
addition to their present referral fee, they should be paid a regular
salary in rante of about Rs 90-150 per month.   As additional ANMs are
trained, they will supersede these trained dais. Specific job des-
criptions for ANMs and dais should include:
1.   Identification of all newly pregnant women, by name, address, age,
number of pregnancies, number of live births, number and sex of
living children, and last pregnancy interval. Copies of this
information will be given to the Family Planning Health Assistant
(FPHA) and to the responsible PHC doctor on a monthly basis.
2.   Provision of minimum maternal care -- namely, two antenatal visits,
presence during labor and delivery, one postnatal visit, and
referral to qualified medical personnel in cases with complications.
3.   Provision of immunization procedures in coordination with the PHC
and basic health worker.
4.  Provision of infant care in homes and identification and referral
to PHC of sick children.
5.   Provision of family planning information and referral for con-
traceptive services.
6.   Provision of follow-up for contraceptive and other medical services.
7.   Serve as depot holders for conventional contraceptives.
ii.  LHVs and ANM Supervisors.   Supervision of ANMs and dais is now the
responsibility of LHVs. This can continue to be so, but in some cases
ANMs should be promoted to become supervisors.    This new system is
desirable because (1) it would encourage more young girls to become
ANMs; and (2) an ANM may be a more effective supervisor than the LHV
because she is more familiar with local conditions and problems.
There should be one supervisor for every 5 workers. The supervisor
should visit the subcenter on a weekly basis and also report weekly to
the PHC doctor.



-22-
iii. FPHAs.  The FPHAs job description should include t1ie following:
1. Obtain lists of pregnant women from ANMs and dais;
2.  Contact husbands of these women to provide them with family
planning information;
3.  Escort men to PHCs for contraceptive services;
4.  Follow-up acceptors, particularly those having had a vasectomy,
and refer men to doctors when there is a medical problem;
5.  Participate in camps; and
6.  Serve as depot holders for condoms.
These functions are different from the FPHAs present responsibilities.
They will have to be trained and assigned to the PHC doctor.
4.17     b.  Mobile Teams.   Two types of teams would be used:
i. Large service-motivation teams. These mobile teams would provide
family planning and MCH services in the villages.    The medical staff
would remain for about one week at: each stop and it would be preceded
by motivational staff using group and interpersonal communications.
Some personnel would remain for the follow--up of sterilization and
IUD cases. This approach would be tried in one of the two Intensive
Districts of each State. This approach seems to be desirable because
of:
1.  the inadequacy of medical staff, in particular, lady doctors at
the PHC level;
2.  the creation of a group psychology that leads individuals to adopt
family planning more easily if they know their neighbors are
also accepting these services; this has been borne out by the
success of the camp technique in India; and
3. the members of this unit would work as a team for extended periods
of time. This would improve their effectiveness.
Each mobile team would consist of about 30 persons - three doctors,
six nurses, and nurse-aids, six motivators and fifteen persons for
administrative and supporting work. Each stop would cover roughly
12 villages. The whole District would be covered in about three
years. Annex 7 gives details on the staffing requirements and equip-
ment for this team.
ii.     Lady-Doctor teams.  These mobile teams would operate in the two
Intensive Districts with no service-motivation teams.     Each District
would have one or two lady doctors and assistants to visit PHCs and
provide family planning services, including IUD inser.ion and
sterilization. Abnormal pregnancy cases will also be treated. The
need for such teams is based on the scarcity of lady doctors in PHCs.



-23-
These mobile teams could be used until every PHC has a lady doctor,
The mobile lady doctor will be assigned to the District Hospital
which will provide her with supplies and equipment. She may stay
overnight in PHCs with living quarters. A ppl-iatrician will also
be assigned to the District Hospital and he will visit each PHC
once every other week.
4.18    c.   Mobile Training.  This will be done in the field by one mobile
District Family Planning Training Team for each District. Field training and
supervision has two advantages:
i.   it is more relevant to local conditions; and
ii.   all workers are trained together and learn to work as a team.
These new teams will be the field training unit of the RFPTC and will be
responsible to its Director. Each team could consist of one doctor, one nurse,
one health-educator social scientist, and one statistician. It will be
responsible for on-the-job training, retraining and supervision of extension
educators, FPHAs, LHVs, ANMs, FWWs, etc. at the PHC and subcenter level. The
team will spend 1-2 weeks at the PHC level, covering the District in 9-12
months; it will then revisit the PHCs regularly for supervision. Each team
will need transportation; living quarters in about two PHCs per District
should also be provided.
4.19    d.   Communication.  The following additional measures are recommended:
i. Group Motivation for the Greater Involvement of Leaders. Since the
success of family planning depends critically on the involvement of
opinion leaders -- village leaders, Panchayat Chairman, Mayors, Block
Development Officers -- greater efforts should be made to enlist their
support. Suggested possibilities are
1.   Orientation Courses and Fairs.  This would consist of orientation
courses once every year for leaders at the Block, District and
Divisional levels. In the case of local leaders, motivation
could take the form of assembling them in groups in the same kind
of carnival atmosphere that attracts them to local fairs and
markets. Transportation as well as food and lodging should be
provided and they should be addressed by political and religious
leaders. Each such fair lasting about two days could cover about
500 villages, so that 3 or 4 fairs every year would cover the
whole district. They should be timed to precede camps in
particular areas.
2.   Incentives.  Some form of financial benefit to village leaders or
Panchayat Chairmen could be tried to determine whether this would
improve performance. The benefit would be related to the number
of camps held in a particular area or the results of these camps.
ii.   Face-to-Face Motivation.  Incentives to acceptors who refer other
patients could be tried. A satisfied customer is a program's best
motivator. This is especially so in the closely-knit life of the
Indian village and family.



-24-
4.20    e.   Organization.   The coordination of the rural postpartum program
will be the responsibility of the DMOH, the District Civil Surgeon and the
District Women's Hospital Superintendent. The unit will be responsible for:
i.   coordinating the activities of all units;
ii.   ensuring a high level of training and supervision; and
iii.   collecting the statistical information and collating it in the
form of a monthly report.
E. BASIC ANM AND DAI TRAINING
4.21    The previous sections have outlined several approaches on the basis
of the existing limited resources of personnel. Concurrently with the imple-
mentation of these approaches, measures should be taken to remove existing
bottlenecks. In particular, the shortage of ANMs is a matter of serious
concern. She is the key field worker in MCH and family planning. In theory
she is responsible for antenatal care, labor and delivery, postnatal care,
and family planning motivation for a population of 10,000. Her training con-
sists of two years of basic hospital nursing and midwifery practice, after
8-10 years of schooling. In reality, she is a multi-purpose health worker
catering not only to MCH needs, but also to treating minor ailments, and
maintaining a register of couples eligible for family planning and other records.
These statistical duties require about 25% of her time. Additionally, travel
on foot requires another 25%. Accordingly, she has only half the time to pro-
vide the needed MCH and family planning services. In practice, due to weather,
road conditions, and insecurity at night the ANM limits her activity to an
area immediately surrounding the subcenter which has an average population of
3,000-5,000. An ANM cannot possibly deal with a larger population. Even if
the Government of India pattern of 1 ANM per 10,000 population were fully
implemented, not more than half of rural women would have access to an ANN.
In Mysore, the ratio is currently 1 AN4 per 7,000 and is expected to improve.
In U.P., the ratio is about 1 ANM per 45,000 population and the situation is
not improving. The latter State recognizes this difficulty and trains FWWs
and indigenous dais to replace ANMs.
4.22    A survey of ANM training programs of the Ministry of Health's Training
Division (April, 1970) revealed that the quality of training is also deficient.
There was less than full enrollment, inadequate stipends (40-50 rupees per
month is insufficient for basic nutritional needs), hostel accommodation,
teaching staff and teaching aids. While the curriculum developed by the
Nursing Council is adequate, in practice training in rural field work and
family planning training is weak or non-existent.    Finally, there is
insufficient supervision during training. Teachers themselves are not only
lacking in number but are inadequately motivated towards family planning and
public health.
4.23    A mere increase in the number of such graduates would only marginally
benefit the MCH and family planning efforts. Indeed, both could be hindered
by a large number of poorly motivated, poorly selected and inadequately
Eiained women.  Thus it is essential to start now improving the quality of



-25-
such personnel, though this is both difficult and will bear fruit only over
the long run.  The mission therefore recommends the following:
a.   Better selection of candidates through aptitude and other testing
procedures.
b.   Improvement of trainers by increasing their number and quality.
c.   Increasing the stipends 6f students to a minimum of 90-100 rupees
per month.
d.   Continuing on-the-job training and supervision by better qualified
LHVs and nurses.
e.   Incentive payments to ANMs for each pregnant woman given care and
incentive payments for family planning motivational work and
follow-up work.
f.   Institute a system of promotion for the best ANMs to supervise
other ANMs and dais.
g.   In the case of U.P., a reorganized training program for dais
should be implemented in Intensive Districts so that a ratio of
one per 5,000 population is reached.  This should include adequate
selection of candidates and sufficient stipends during training
(about 75 rupees per month). The training program would be on a
full time basis for 10-12 weeks at the local ANM training school.
Continued on-the-job training by ANM supervisors and LHVs should
be part of the program. Trained dais should be given an adequate
salary supplemented by incentives for MCH care and family planning
motivation. The following salary-incentive scales are recommended.
Training                            Family Planning
Stipend                                (IUD and       Depot Holders
(Rs/month)     Salary      MCH       terilization)       (Condoms)
ANM        90-100                  8Rs per      5Rs per        5 paise per
delivery     acceptor        3 pieces
Dais         75         90-150     6Rs per      5Rs per        5 paise per
delivery     acceptor        3 pieces
1/ Including at least 2 antenatal visits, labor and delivery,
and 3 postnatal visits.
F. THE POPULATION CENTERS
4,.24   Objectives.  Previous sections outlined the proposals of the mission
for improving the delivery of family planning services. Those recommendations
were based on what appeared to be reasonable to the mission but with no



-26-
assurance that these measures would resolve the present difficulties. It is
therefore important to evaluate how effective these recommendations will be in
practice and to determine the reason for their success or failure. This con-
tinuous evaluation, leading to further recommendation for change in the most
basic part of the project. The Population Centers were conceived is response
to the need for orderly change. Their principal objective is to analyse per-
formance in the project areas, and to frame specific suggestions for improving
this performance on a continuous and systematic basis. The Center is not con-
ceived of as a passive reviewing agency. It is therefore essential that the
organization of each Center be such that its recommendations for change can be
quickly and effectively implemented.
Functions
4.25    These relate to (a) management-information and evaluation and (b)
training. A separate Division within the Center would be responsible for each
group. The respective functions of each Division are summarized below.
4.26    a, Management-Information and Evaluation,   This system is discussed
in detail in Annex 5. The following are its main functions:
i.  Appraise critically the present evaluation system, in close co-
operation with the State Demographic and Evaluation Cells. The
accurancy, analysis and flow of existing records should be improved.
ii.  Redesign the reporting system at various levels to improve super-
vision, inspection, and evaluation and research. This will reduce
the complexity and inefficiency of the existing system.
iii.  Integrate the collection and analysis of performance and cost data
at all levels. This will be part of the redesigning of the system
and will require the revision of existing forms and training for
maintaining the data.
iv.  Plan and implement studies
(a) on the basis of existing data (for example which are the workers
that are most effective, what are the characteristics of
acceptors, etc.); and
(b) that need additional data (for example, what happens to IUD
acceptors. If such a study shows high continuation then pro-
gram efforts can be concentrated on new acceptors rather than
follow-up).
v.  Undertake studies on the structure of demand for family planning
services;
vi.  Analyse the reproductive histories of the general population of
child-bearing age and not just the minority reached by the program;
and estimate the demographic parameters of the project areas.
vii.  Disseminate ideas through the publication of regular reports. These
should flow upwards to the State and Governments of India as well
as downward to all levels of personnel engaged in the project
areas; and



-27-
viii.   Train and retrain evaluation personnel such as district level
statisticians and block level computors. Training curricula will
be devoted primarily to the introduction of new techniques and
methodology and should involve all concerned with the implementa-
tion of new programs in project areas. This will involve the
creation of mobile training teams in addition to static facilities
provided at the Ceniter. These supervisory teams should frequently
tour to observe how different types of personnel and units are
operating. There should also be regular seminars of staff, at
various program levels, to hear their problems and inform them
of the Center's activities.
4.27    b.  Training.   The functions of this Division are as follows:
i. Train the service-motivation and lady doctor mobile teams.
ii. Work with and advise the RFPTC and mobile District Family Planning
Training teams in the development of curricula, materials and
programs.
iii. Train persons in urban areas that have not been trained, for
example private doctors, and some of the hospital staff.
iv. Develop and implement evaluative techniques, in cooperation with
the Evaluation Division of the Center and relevant Government
agencies, for training programs and subsequent worker performance;
and suggest changes in the training programs in the light of these
investigations.
Organization.
4.28    a.  The Governing Board should be an influential body that can secure
the speedy implementation of the Center's recommendations in the project areas
and transfer this experience to the whole State, where this is desirable. The
State Chief Secretary or someone of similar standing should be the Chairman of
the Board. Other members should include key administrators and politicians,
such as those presently at the State Implementation Committee, and two represent-
atives from the Government of India -- one from the Ministry of Health and the
other from the Planning Commission. (The Government of India representatives
need not attend all its meetings). The Center must have the administrative
and financial control necessary to function effectively. The Center's budget
must be drawn upon flexibly. Delays in staffing and procurement would thus
be avoided.
4.29    b.  The Director of the Center should be of a level at least equal to
that of State Director of Medical Services so that he can function effectively.
His deputy could be ranked as an Assistant to the State Family Planning Officer
with responsibility for program implementation in the project areas. The SFPO
could be involved in the Center through an ex-officio appointment.
4.30    c.  The Center should have financial and technical control, under well
defined limits, in the project areas. Administrative control would be with
the SFPO.



-28-
4.31    The Center should be responsive to the specific information requests of
the program administrators as a matter of first priority. Unless there is a
close interaction between the research-evaluation side and the program operators,
the ideas developed by the Center will be unutilized, and in time will cease
to be developed. Such interaction, is facilitated by the joint appointments
in the Center and State Administration. It would also be helped by:
i.   accommodating the State Demographic and Evaluation Cell and the
Urban Council in the same complex of buildings as that of the
Center. The Center should provide logistical support to these
units (e.g. data processing) and the same persons should do work
for the Center and the other groups; and
ii.   requiring the Center by charter to issue a regular report to the
Central Government and the Planning Commission on Recent Progress
and Plans for the Future in Population and Family Planning.
4.32    Personnel.  The Center should have a staff of significant size (about
fifty) to reach its full potential. This includes a Director, Deputy Director,
and four to six junior staff as program directors. A cadre of research supar--
visors (about 10) will also be required to undertake base-line surveys and to
train temporary staff for this purpose. The Training Division of the Center
should have a staff of about ten persons.
4.33    Advisory Service.  Two outstanding persons - one senior with status
and experience and one junior but with experience - are needed. At least one
should have experience in survey work in developing countries, in
relation to a population program. Short-term consultants who are specialists
in sampling, communications, computer work, etc., will be needed. The senior
advisor, while sympathetic to research, should be familiar with program opera-
tions. The junior advisor will be responsible for the research side.
4.34    Operating expenditures for the Center cannot be accurately estimated
until the staffing pattern is established more exactly. Rough operating costs
are estimated at Rs 500,000 equivalent per year.
G. PHYSICAL FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
4.35    The project includes the following facilities:
1. In Lucknow Urban and Bangalore City.
a.   Additional Delivery Beds.  Four hundred additional maternity beds
will be constructed in Lucknow and 160 beds in Bangalore so that more
deliveries can be institutionalized for an effective postpartum program
This is composed of:
i.   a new 100-bed maternity hospital and 10 additional maternity homes
with 30 beds each in Lucknow; and
ii.   a new 100-bed maternity hospital and the addition of 10 beds in
each of six urban maternity homes in Bangalore City.



-29-
On the basis of 30 deliveries per bed per year (women stay in hospitals
10-12 days after delivery) these extra beds would serve an additional
population of 300,000 in Lucknow and 120,000 in Bangalore. This is
less than the population presently not receiving this service. Further-
more, the urban population is expected to grow as a result of natural
increase and migration   to the cities.  This expansion of facilities
is particularly modestfor Lucknow, where 70% of deliveries do not occur
in institutions, and where maternity hospitals are overcrowded.
b.   Family Planning Clinics.  Fourteen Urban Family Welfare Centers
will be constructed and renovated -- 6 in Lucknow and 8 in Bangalore.
Family planning services are provided in the existing centers but they
are inadequate.
In addition to the above the project will include physical
facilities located in Lucknow and Bangalore and serving the whole pro-
ject area. These facilities are the two Population Centers, two RFPTCs
and five of the ANM Schools. Two of these ANMs Schools would be
attached to the two new maternity hospitals, while the three others
- two in Lucknow and one in Bangalore - would be attached to existing
hospitals.
2. In All Other Areas. Outside Lucknow and Bangalore City, facilities
and equipment would be constructed according to the Government of India
pattern. The project also includes facailities that are not in tiie
family planning budget -- for example, buildings for administration.
The following is the list of all facilities:
a.   District Family Planning Bureaus.  Existing buildings are
inadequate. One such building would be required in each of nine
Districts (excluding Bangalore Rural).
b.   Maternity-Sterilization Wards (20-30 beds per ward).  These would
be added to District Hospitals for the increase in institutional
deliveries, postpartum education and sterilization operations. An
operating room would be added where necessary.
c.   Primary Health Centers.  These comprise a dispensary, a family
planning clinic and living quarters for staff both under health and
family planning. The Government of India pattern sanctions 1 unit per
Block of 80,000 - 10,000 population. Most of these, in particular
living quarters for staff have not been built. The number of the
various units comprising a PHC included in the project is as follows.
t7he location of each of these units is given in Annex 8).
U.P.       Mysore          Total
Dispensary                  39          3              42
Staff Quarters (Health)     54         25              79
Family Planning Main
Center                   82         73             155
Staff Quarters (Family
Planning)                86         73             159



-30-
d.   Subcenters.  These are sanctioned at the rate of 1/10,000 population
but few are actually constructed. The project includes a total of 1,325
subcenters -- 508 in Mysore and 817 in U.P. The number of subcenters
to be constructed in each District is given in Annex 6. The location
has yet to be determined.
e.   Facilities for ANM Training.  The project includes:
i.   The building of 14 ANM schools -- 5 in Lucknow and Bangalore City
and 9 in the other Districts. The latter are attached to
maternity hospitals for training. These schools would include
hostel accommodation, and equipment.
ii.   Living quarters in PHCs near the schools for rural health train-
ing. The precise location of these quarters has still be be
selected. These living quarters could also be used by mobile
teams (service-motivation or lady doctors) when not occupied by
students.
iii.   Expand the District Hospitals maternity sections to allow a larger
increased intake of studies in ANM schools.
3.   Additional Facilities in Intensive Districts.   These are additional to
the Government of India pattern and to the facilities included in other
rural Districts. They consist of:
a.   Maternity Wings (15-20 beds each) in 4-6 PHCs per District close
to the District Hospital. These would increase the number of institut-
ional deliveries and facilitate the task of family planning education
and follow-up. Even with these additional beds, however, more than
half the deliveries would not be institutional deliveries. The PHCs
where these wings would be added have to be identified.
b.   Living Quarters in PHCs.   In 4 PHCs per District, living quarters
would be added for the mobile service-motivation and lady doctor teams.
These PHCs should be well distributed over the whole District and have
yet to be identified.
c.   Dais Subcenters.  Nine hundred centers would be added in the two
Intensive Districts of U.P. They would be slightly smaller than the
present ANM subcenters. The design and location of these subcenters
has to be determined.
H. COSTS
4.36    Total costs of the project are estimated to be Rs 113 million (US$ 15.1
million). The breakdown of this total is shown in the following table. The
direct foreign exchange component is estimated to be Rs 7.5 million (US$ 1.0
million) for technical assistance. To this should be added specialized medical
equipment whose cost is minor, but which has not yet been estimated. Annex 9
gives further details on the breakdown of these estimates and their distribut-
ion between U.P. and Mysore. The detailed phasing of these expenditures has



-31-
yet to be determined. An approximate phasing is as follows - Rs 17 million
(US$ 2.26 million) in the first year, Rs 34 million (US$ 4.5 million) in each
of the two subsequent years, Rs 17 million (US$ 2.26 million) in the fourth
year, and Rs 11 million (US$ 1.5 million) in the last year.
ESTIMATED COSTS OF THE PROJECT
(in 1970 constant prices)
Rs(OOO's) US$(000's)
I. Construction and Equipment
A. Urban Areas (Lucknow Urban and
Bangalore City
1. Population Centers                                  3,000        400
2. Maternity Hospitals with ANM Schools                6,000        800
3. Maternity Homes                                     5,100        680
4. Urban Family Welfare Centers                        1,050        140
5. Regional FP Training Centers                        1,000        133
6. ANM Schools                                         1,200        160
Subtotal               17,350      2,313
B. Rural Areas
7. Administrative Buildings                            6,750        900
8. Maternity-sterilization Wards in
District Hospitals                              6,000         800
9. ANM Schools                                         3,600        480
10. PHC and FP Centers (Government of India            22,345      2,979
11. Additional maternity wing for PHC                   4,000        533
12. Subcenters (Government of India pattern)           19,875      2,650
13. Additional Dai Subcenters                           9,000      1,200
14. Vehicles                                            2,790        372
Subtotal               74,360      9,915
Total                  91,710     12,228
II.  Contingencies (15% of I.)                               13,757      1,834
III. Technical Assistance                                     7,500      1,000
Total                 112,967     15,062



-32-
4.37    Additional recurring expenditures are estimated to reach a level of
Rs 5.3 million (US$ 0.71 million) per year. These are mainly salaries of
posts not presently in the Government of India pattern. They exclude the
remuneration of foreign advisors. Annual expenditures will fall short of
this in the first two years of the project. Thus over the five year period
total additional recurring expenditures are tentatively estimated to be
Rs 18.6 million (US$ 3.6 million). Other expenditures are in the Government
of India pattern, but because all sanctioned staff should be in position in
the project area, this will mean that expenditures in the project Districts
will increase. Annex 10 gives further details on the additional recurring
expenditures and their distribution between U.P. and Mysore.
4.38    About 59% of the total costs (Rs 62 million or US$ 8.3 million) of
the project are for U.P. and 41% Rs 43 million or US$ 5.7 million) are for
Mysore. The same proportions apply to the additional recurring expenditures
generated by the project. The following is a summary of the respective
figures:
U.P.       Mysore       Total
Rs US$     Rs   US$     Rs   US$
1.   Construction and equipment          62 8.3     43   5.7    105   14.0
including contingencies
2.   Additional Operating Expenditures   11 1.5      7   0.9     18    2.4
over first five years
Total      73  9.8    50   6.6    123   16.4
4.39    Replicability
A concern of the Bank   and of the Government   has been that whatever
is proposed in the project should be replicable , that is, that facilities,
personnel and services should be provided on a scale that can ultimately be
repeated in other parts of India where conditions are similar in relevant
respects. There is much in the proposed project which is of an exploratory
nature, and therefore only those aspects of the project which prove particularly
effective would in fact be subject to replication elsewhere. The project's
costs for facilities and manpower do not therefore form a basis for calculating
what such a program would cost on an India-wide basis. Further there is a
major information and research component in the project, which should provide
results of value to the family planning program in general; this research
and information effort is clearly on a greater scale than would be considered
necessary for every State capital in India. Subject to such considerations,
it is believed that the project does provide for replicability in the sense
stated above."
November 27, 1970



INDIA
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF FAMILY PLANNING ACTIVITIES AT THE CENTER
FINANCE MINISTER
MINISTER OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING AND
WORKS, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
AND FAMILY PLANNING AND WORKS, HOUSING &
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF HOME
AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF STATE DEPARTMENTS OF
ELECTRONICS AND SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL
RESEARCH.
MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF LAW AND
IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WELFARE
MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE
CENTRAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL                       MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING                        CENTRAL FAMILY PLANNING INSTITUTE
AND WORKS,HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER FOR HEALTH,                                                                                                DEMOGRAPHIC AND COMMUNICATION
FAMILY PLANNING,WORKS    - CHAIRMAN                         MINISTER                                                ACTION RESEARCH COMMITTEE
HOUSING AND URBAN                       ------              MINISTER OF STATE FOR HEALTH         -------
DEVELOPMENT                           I                      AND FAMILY PLANNING                                    BIO-MEDICAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
SECRETARY FOR HEALTH AND                                         (I.C.M.R.)
MINISTER OF STATE FOR                                        FAMILY PLANNING
HEALTH AND FAMILY        -VICE                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR
PLANNING                   CHAIRMAN                                                                                 POPULATION STUDIES
STATE HEALTH MINISTERS   - MEMBERS
REPRESENTATIVES OF
ALL INDIA ORGANIZATIONS
AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS    -MEMBERS                                                                                         EXECUTIVE BOARD
CONCERNED WITH FAMILY
PLANNING WORK                                    D E P A R T M E N T O F F A M I L Y P L A N N I N G              SERTR     ORHAT      N
SECRETARY FOR HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING - CHAIRMAN
JOINT SECRETARY
(MINISTER OF FINANCE)
COMMISSIONER (FAMILY PLANNING
SECRETARIAL WING                    NIRODH MARKETING ORGANIZATION              TCHNICLING                                             AND MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH
(COMMISSIONER FAMILY PLANNING
(JOINT SECRETARY)                         (MARKETING EXECUTIVE)                AND MATERNAL AND CHILD HEi~ALTH)                       JOINT SECRETARY(FAMILY PLANNING)
-CO NVEN ER
MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH
PROGRESS & SERVICES              TRAINING, RESEARCH AND           TECHNICAL OPERATIONS             SUPPLIES                        MASS EDUCATION AND MEDIA            REGIONAL OFFICES(S)
(DEPUTY COMMISSIONER)             EXTENSION EDUCATION              (DEPUTY COMMISSIONER)            (ASSISTANT CONEMISSIONER)      (ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER)             (REGIONAL DIRECTOR)
(DEPUTY COMMISSIONER)
All
POUCY, PLANNING, GRANTS                                                                        >
ADMINISTRATION                       BUDGET AND FINANCE                 INTELLIGENCE, EVALUATION                  AIDED PROGRAMS                                      z
(DEPUTY SECRETARY)                   (DEPUTY SECRETARY)                 AND RESEARCH MANAGEMENT                   (DIRECTOR)           |
(DEPUTY SECRETARY)X
IBRD - 5363
Supplies ather than conventionals, which are the responsibility of the
marketing executive.



INDIA
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF FAMILY PLANNING ACTIVITIES IN A STATE
STATE CABINET COMMITTEE
UNION HEALTFH MINISTRY           STATE FAMILY              I    DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DEPARTMENT OF                     PLANNING                      MINISTER OF HEALTH               ACTION/IMPLEMENTATION
FAMILY PLANNING                  COUNCIL                        SECRETARY FOR HEALTH                 COMMITTEE
DIRECTORATE OF HEALTH SERVICES
DIRECTOR OF HEALTH AND FAMILY
PLANNING SERVICES
| REGIONAL OFFICE                                       J|STATE FAMILY PLANNING BUREAU 1
(REGIONAL                                              (ADDITIONAL/JOINT/DEPUTY                               GRANTS COMMITTEE
DIRECTOR)                                             DIRECTOR OF HEALTH SERVICES-                            AWARDS COMMITTEE
STATE FAMILY PLANNING OFFICER)
OPERATION, PLANNING AND            EDUCATION AND                      ADMINISTRATIVE AND
TRAINING DIVISION                  INFORMATION DIVISION               STORES DIVISION                STATISTICS, DEMOGRAPHY AND
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF              MASS EDUCATION AND                ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER         EVALUATION DIVISION
HEALTH SERVICES                    COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER            (FAMILY PLANNING)
z
AUD IT PARTY                                                                                                                                            Z
IBRD - 5362



INDIA
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF FAMILY PLANNING ACTIVITIES IN A DISTRICT
C   STATE DIRECTORATE OF HEALTH SERVICES S
C   DIRECTOR OF HEALTH SERVICES M
STATE                   CENER                   DISTRICT AION            DISTRT FAMILY PLANNING BUREAUDl
OF HEALTH SERVICES        ADDITIONAL/JOINT/DEPUTY DIRECTOR
l OF HEALTH SERVICES
CIVIL SURGEON             DISTRICT HEALTH ORGANIZATION
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH
RURBAN FAMILY PLANNINGP
WEALFARE CENTERS                DI
IMPLEMENTATION    --DISTRICT FAMILY PLANNING OFFICER
DISTRICT LEVEL   STATE STERILIZATION
U NITS
Tx
-  ITHSIAS  l|             ADMINISTPATIVE DIVISION  |||EDUCATION AND INFORMATION |F| EUD OPERATIONS AND                         l
*l                                  DIVISIO N          ll            EVAWATION DIVISION    l
---i                                                 MOBILE FAMILY PL-ANNING   MBLE FAMILY PLANNING
STORES                 ADMIN ISTRATIO N            ACCO UNTS      l       U NITS (SERVICES)        bdT(STERI LIZATIO N)  l      EVAWATIO N
|   RURAL FAMILY PLANNING
|   WELFARE CENTERSl
BLOCK LEVEL|Z
SUBCENTERS
IBRD - 5361



ACTION/ IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEES
I.  AT STATE LEVEL                   1 II.  AT DISTRICT LEVEL                      III. AT BLOCK LEVEL
Chief Secretary      Chairman        Collector                  Chairman      Chairman or President of     Chairman
Panchayat Samiti, Union
Development                          Chairman, Zila Parishad                  or Anchalik Panchayat
Commissioner         Member
Civil Surgeon            )               Elected representative
Health Secretary     Member                                   )               of the Samiti                Member
District Planning Officer)
Director of M & HS   Member                                   ) Seven         Block Medical Officer        Member
District Health Officer   ) members
Other important                                               )               FP Extension workers         Members
State officers       Members        Other important           )
district officers and    )               Block Development Officer     Secretary
Regional Director    Member         non-officials             )
Joint Director                      District FP Officer         Secretary
(Family Planning)    Secretary



ANNEX 5
MANAGEMENT-INFORMATION AND EVALUATION SYSTEM (MIES)
A. INTRODUCTION
B. THE PRESENT MIES SYSTEM
Managerial Pattern and Responsibilities
The Central Department
The State and Union Territory Bureau
The District Bureau
The Information System
The Evaluation System
The Measurement of Fertility
C. LIMITATIONS OF THE SYSTEM AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Limitations of the System
Supply or Demand
Recommendations
D. THE POPULATION CENTER
E. TRAINING REQUIREMENTS



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 27 pages
THE MANAGEMENT-INFORMATION AND EVALUATION SYSTEM
A.  INTRODUCTION
1.        This Annex discusses the following:
(i)  The type of Management-Information and Evaluation System (MIES)
which exists in India at the Central, State, District and Block
levels in general and particularly with reference to the two
States of Mysore and U.P.
(ii) The strengths and limitations of the existing system.
(iii) The changes and/or experimentations needed with reference to
future efforts in the type of data to be collected, methodol-
ogical problems, managerial deficiencies, and rationalization
and standardization of records.
(iv) The proposed mechanism needed to strengthen the system in the
project areas.
(v)  The training requirements of the system and the time dimension
of such institution building.
(vi) The Population Center: its set-up, role, staffing pattern, and
some suggested research areas.
(vii) The strength of advisory support for the Center.
2.        There are, however, various aspects and dimensions that must be con-
sidered when designing a general system of MIES for a family planning program.
Our discussion of the Indian system and proposals for the project will focus
on the following areas:
(a)  The Organizational Structure of the Family Planning Program
This includes the financial and administrative set-up as related
to managerial and evaluative efforts, the relation of the program
to other agencies, the existence of managerial and analytical
capabilities, the expected time lag on the information flows and
the existence of political and other constraints that delay or
prevent the implementation of decisions based on the system's
findings and analysis.
(b)  Input-Output Analysis or 'Supply' Analysis
This includes monitoring the various inputs to the program
(e.g. personnel, supplies, transport, etc.) as related to



ANNEX 5.
Page 2 of 27 pages
intermediate outputs (e.g. contraceptive services) and to
final output (i.e. birth prevented). The latter being done
partly through the system's internal flow of data but sup-
plemented by special survey findings and other sources of
data. Supply analysis should also include the monitoring of
other sources of supplies from private and commercial channels.
(c) Demand Analysis
The study of demand should go beyond assessing the level of
potential or latent demand (e.g. what kind of people practice
and do not practice contraception). More specifically, it
should examine more critically the structural relations under-
lying the demand to find ways and means to increase such
demand. This clearly will need careful studies of the effects
of education, motivation and incentives; as well as changes in
institutions, rules, regulations, and taxations that may affect
fertility behavior. This type of analysis is, by its very
nature, inter-disciplinary and needs the cooperation and
coordination of various and different public and private
agencies.
(d) Cost Considerations of Such a MIES
Whether more emphasis will be given to cost-supply analysis
relative to demand analysis will depend on the efficiency of
the system on the one hand, and on the strength of the demand
on the other hand. In India, both sides seem to be equally
important and both of them need further strengthening.
B. THE PRESENT MIES SYSTEM
3.        Good program management at various levels (i.e. Center, State, and
District) requires: (a) adequate capable managers; (b) a good program informa-
tion system; (c) analytical capability that is able to utilize the information
system to answer various questions raised by program managers and to raise new
questions themselves; (d) ability to implement decisions; and (e) having a
chance of success since otherwise its conclusions will have little weight.
Managerial Pattern and Responsibilities
4.        The responsibilities of program managers are determined in part by
their place in the organizational structure and in part by the constitutional,
legal and policy framework within which the program operates. Family Planning
in India is a State subject, but the India Family Planning Program is a
centrally sponsored scheme. Basically there are three main adniinistrative units
in the Program: (1) the Central Department of Family Planning; (2) the State



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 27 pages
and Union Territory Family Planning Bureaus; and (3) the District Family
Planning Bureaus. To evaluate management-information needs at the various
levels, it is important to examine the major responsibilities assigned to
the offices and sections of these three units, the interrelations and inter-
actions among these units and the impact of the level of efficiency of one
unit on the functions of the other units and the program as a whole.
5.        The Central Department is the planner and financial controller of
the family planning program. It has more flexibility (and responsibility)
in managing budgeted funds than most other Departments. More specifically,
the major responsibilities assigned to the Central Department of family
planning are to:
(a) formulate and coordinate policy for family planning and
maternal and child health (MCH);
(b) coordinate the development of five year plans for family
planning and MCH;
(c) oversee and finance all medical research;
(d) make decisions concerning the introduction of new con-
traceptive methods into the program;
(e) control supply and transport to a large extent;
(f) control the strategy, design, content, production, research
and evaluation of mass communication and educational
projects;
(g) establish program objectives (targets);
(h) coordinate the flow of external aid;
(i) promote the sale of condoms (nirodh) through private dis-
tribution channels;
(j) coordinate and participate directly in the operation of
(1) programs addressed to the 10,000,000 employees of
Central Government organizations; and (2) the full range
of field programs in Union territories, with a total popula-
tion of some 14 million;
(k) keep the Cabinet, Parliament, and the public informed on
the status or the program; and
(1) coordinate demographic, communication and biomedical research.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 27 pages
6.        These various responsibilities, combined with the growth of the
total family planning enterprise have created new and complex problems of
management. In late 1969, provision was made to allow for the addition of
a Program Analysis and Research Information Unit at the Center (PARI).
The purpose of creating the PARI unit in the Department of Family Planning
is to:
(a) build a stronger link between the Department and the family
planning research institutes;
(b) bring a deeper analytic capability into the Department; and
(c) initiate an examination of the program data-gathering and
reporting machinery.
7.        The way in which PARI develops is relevant to the activities that
the Population Centers of the project may undertake. It is envisaged that
the first set of activities in which PARI may be involved will include the
following:
(a) examine ways to integrate program data;
(b)  redesign the reporting system;
(c) improve accuracy and expedite the flow of data;
(d) develop input-output co-efficients for the program;
(e) develop capacity-use, efficiency and cost-effectiveness
measures that can be integrated into the system;
(f) project the number of births required to be prevented through
family planning; and
(g) develop an analytic framework for projecting the program's
capacity to prevent births for use during 1971-72 annual plan
and budget development process.
8.        Many of these activities (e.g. the first three) are similar to the
project objectives. However, the frame of reference of these studies will be
the whole of India, rather than a limited geographical area such as the Bank
project. This may lead to developments along different lines, but it is use-
ful to coordinate efforts at an early stage to gain better understanding and
cooperation in the long run.
9.        Center personnel, in addition to that of the Central Department of
Family Planning, are posted also at four of the five Central Training Institutes,
namely, the Central Family Planning Institute, New Delhi; All-India Institute
of Hygiene and Public Health, Calcutta; and the Bombay Training Institute.
The Gandhigram training institute, although autonomous, is partly funded by a
Central subsidy.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 27 pages
10.       Furthermore, there are six regional directors and their staffs
wqho are supported by 16 centrally-staffed Family Planning Field units.
The staff of the regional director could be strengthened; the utility of
their role depends on the personality of the Director and his success in
establishing liaison with the State Government.
The State and Union Territory Family Planning Bureaus
11.       Family planning is a State subject.   Thus, although family planning
is centrally sponsored and financed, the States prepare and forward budget
proposals and have the primary responsibilities for program implementation
and use of funds. Also, the State Governments can, and often do: (a) decline
Central grants-in-aid; (b) refuse to expand service capacity as desired by
the Center; and (c) introduce (with agreement from the Center) minor deviations
fro-m the Central pattern.  Furthermore, most facilities constructed become
the property of the State and most field personnel are State Government
employees.
12.       In general, the main responsibilities of the State Family Planning
Bureau (SFPB) are:
(a) overall supervision of District efforts and provision of
general leadership and directions to all program operations;
(b) financial and operational control over field activities;
(c)  coordinating theflow of information, money and material
between the Center and the Districts;
(d) administering and executing training of the lower echelon
workers;
(e) administering mass communication activities;
(f) administering transport; and
(g) administering the postpartum program.
13.       At the State level the program is managed by the State Bureaus headed
by a State Family Planning Officer and responsible -to the Director of Health
and Family Planning. There are two divisions in the State Family Planning
Bureau: (a) Operation Division, headed by an assistant director. This division
includes an Education and Information unit; and a Planning field operation,
Evaluation and Training unit; and (b) Administrative and Stores Division
headed by an administrative officer.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 27 pages
14.       To strengthen the State evaluation and analytical capabilities,
an expanded demographic and evaluation cell within the SFPB has been
sanctioned in 1969. Recruitment of a demographer, a social scientist,
a statistician, a statistical investigator, a statistical assistant and
other supporting staff started in 1970. Most of the staff in the Lucknow
unit are in position and recruitment of the demographer was done in August
1970; but the unit needs space, facilities and training.
15.       To speed the decision-making process and for effective interdepart-
mental coordination and communication, a State Implementation Committee has
been formed. The Committee, headed by the Chief Secretary of the State,
includes, as members, the Development Commissioner, the Health Secretary,
and other important State officers. The main utility of the Committee is
that any decisions that need cooperation from departments other than Health
could be approved and implemented.    The full potential of the Committee,
however, is yet to be reached. Its meetings are infrequent and the follow-
up of decisions taken seems to be difficult.
The District Family Planning Bureau
16.       The District Family Planning Bureau (DFPB) is the key operational
unit in the program infrastructure. Administration of actual field opera-
tions is, as a rule, delegated by the State to District Family Planning
Bureaus. It is obvious that the District Bureau has to supervise an
extremely large number and wide range of types of facilities and programs.
17.       In general, the main responsibilities of the DFPB are:
(a) supervise and manage all program activities in the field,
i.e. (1) manage the rural family planning organization at
the 15-25 Primary Health Centers in the District, and (2)
supervise and administer the urban family planning activities
through its urban unit. This function includes the management
of personnel, information, records, material and other resources;
(b) organize the efforts of governmental organizations in the
District;
(c) supervise the performance of voluntary organizations
receiving government subsidies; and
(d)  stimulate the active participation of industrial employers,
private physicians and the numerous practioners of indigenous
medicine. This implies the ability to draw upon relevant
governmental and community resources which can, if successful,
greatly influence program results.
18.       To a large extent, the quality of the program at the block and village
level, including maintenance and use of records, is affected by the nature of



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 27 pages
supervision froam the district. However, as will be discussed below, a
critical point for management improvement is at the Dlistrict level. The
District Family Planning Bureau is managed by the District Family Planning
Officer who is a medical doctor. There are three divisions in the Bureau:
(a) the Administrative division, (b) Education and Information division,
and (c) Field Operation and Evaluation division. The full burden of admin-
istrative responsibilities lies on the shoulders of the DFPO. An
administrative officer is sanctioned but was not in position in the
Districts visited in U.P. and Mysore. The rank and training of such an
administrative officer are essential qualities to assure him an effective
administrative role in the District Bureau.
19.       The District Field Operation and Evaluation Division consists of
one statistical investigator and two field and evaluation workers (one male
and one female). The job of the statistical investigator is basically a
clerical one: collecting the routine performance data from the various
health centers, checking the returns, correcting and adding, and filing
summary forms to the State Bureau. No analysis of the data is done, no
preparation of internal performance reports is being done, and almost no
systematic field checking of the accuracy of the data collected is being
done. This is apparently the case partly because of the lack of an adequate
analytical capability in the District Bureau and partly because some of these
management functions that require this type of data and its analysis are not
perceived by the DFPO either as part of his job description or within his
authority.
20.       It is important to note, however, that the responsibilities of the
District program manager have become much greater and complex due to:
the shift from a passive to an active program strategy through the single-
purpose-worker-type extension approach. This E done essentially by using a
large cadre of Family Planning Health Assistants (FPHA) in the rural and
urban areas, one for each 20,000 people. These workers conduct a house-to-
house motivational and educational effort directed towards all eligible
couples in their jurisdiction. This community extension approach added a
new load on the administrative responsibility of the District Family Planning
Officer because of the involvement of the community. This added load did
not, however, have a parallel added analytical capability in the DFPB.
The Information Mechanism
21.       As mentioned, good program management, in its various levels requires,
among other things, adequate program information; but such information comes
through both an adequate program data-reporting network and systematic analysis
of the data. For example, in order to handle their various responsibilities,
program managers, given their administrative constraints, need to know:
(a) What is happening under their jurisdiction;
(b) Why things are happening as they are;
(c) How to improve things; and
(d) How to implement changes quickly.



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 27 pages
We shall examine the type, quality and regularity of service statistics
collected in the system.
22.       A detailed set of records, registers and returns that bring out
the performance of each operational unit has been worked out by the Center
as a standard format. Utilizing the various records and registers kept at
the peripheral levels, standardized reporting pro forma has been prepared
for collection and transmission of monthly data on the various efforts made
and performance achieved at the different levels from the black to the
Center. The states collect the information from District Bureaus which in
turn obtain the data from the block and so on down the line to the peripheral
workers. The Demographic Cells are required to undertake major responsibil-
ities in rationalizing and streamlining the service statistics system. A
Statistical Assistant is provided in the District Bureau and a computor
(compilation clerk) at the block level.
23.       Each peripheral unit (i.e., any unit offering family planning
services to the people including clinical work, distribution of conventional
contraceptives, educational and motivational work for family planning, for
example, Rural and Urban Family Welfare Planning Centers, sub-centers,
clinics, hospitals, private medical practitioners, mobile and static units,
central family planning corps, central family planning field units etc.) is
required to maintain a record of such activities in one or more of the
following 'primary registers' according to the scope of their individual
activities:
(a) daily case register;
(b) conventional contraceptive couple register;
(c) conventional contraception stock register;
(d) IUD register;
(e) sterilization register; and
(f) register for community education and training activities.
24.       These registers are the basis for the monthly reports originating
from the peripheral units. Many of these registers are not well maintained.
This is mainly because of lack of supervision, lack of supplies of forms
and/or stationery, and lack of training and motivation.
25.       Besides these basic registers, there are two other types of register
required to be maintained for follow-up purposes and motivational work:
(a) individual case cards for male sterilization, female
sterilization and IUD insertions; and
(b) eligible couple register to be kept by the Family Planning
Health Assistant for his motivational and referral work.
The multiplicity of record-keeping at the peripheral level creates some mis-
allocation of time-use and, coupled with inadequate supervision and necessary
supplies, some inefficiency.



ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 27 pages
26.       All peripheral units have to report their data on a monthly basis
to the main Family Welfare Planning Center at the Primary Health Center
where it is aggregated for all peripheral units in that area and submitted
to the District Family Planning Bureau. In the District, the data are
aggregated and submitted to the State and once more aggregated and submitted
to the Center. Aggregated data by area of jurisdiction (i.e. Primary
Health Center, District, State) are presented separately for the performance
of Family Welfare Planning Centers, hospitals and clinics, camps, mobile
units and private medical practitioners, and by whether they are state-
controlled, local bodies, or voluntary organizations.
27.       The pro formae of the returns from all levels are designed uniformly
and have four basic types:
(a) Form P: Monthly report on the number of service units
and their performance. They include the following:
P1 - for sterilization and IUD;
P2 - for distribution of conventional contraceptives; and
P3 - combined form for sterilization, IUD, and conventional
contraceptives by single peripheral units-
(b) Form E: Monthly report on activities for Community Education.
(c) Form T: Monthly report on training as follows:
Ti - for regular/special courses of training; and
T2 - for orientation training.
(d) Form S: Quarterly report on staff, equipment and transportation.
28.       The scheduling of the flow of all returns is given in a tabular form
in the following table. There are usually, as expected in such a large
operation, some delays in handling and submission of returns. Control registers,
kept at every receiving unit, are designed to detect such delays. Also, there
are supposed to be nonthly regular meetings at the District level with personnel
from the PHC's to review and discuss various administrative problems as related
to the reports submitted.
29.       The SFPB issues a monthly memorandum to all DFPB giving them ranking
by performance relative to target and encourages those Districts with high
achievement. The statements also in23ude queries to Districts low in the
ranking. Ranking, however, is done merely with regard to performance without
taking cost and utilization into account.
30.       There is a clear dichotomy in the reporting system between cost data
and performance data. This dichotomy persists from the District level where
cost and capacity utilization data are collected separately from performance data.
The statistical assistant at the DFPB is only responsible for performance



ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 27 pages
Summary Statement of Reports Sent by Units of Various Levels
Last Day of Month
Return From                   Form          Treguency  Destination     for Sending
l.(a) Rural areas - Contra-
ceptive depot holders/
distribution center      P3              Monthly    Sub-center         3rd
(b) UJrban areas  Contra-
ceptive depot holders/
distribution center/
hospitals/clinics/
private-medical
practitioners            P3              Monthly   FWPC                6th
2.    Rural areas - sub-center P3, E            Monthly   Main PHC            6th
3.(a) Rural areas - Main PHC    P1, P2, E       Monthly   DFPA               10th
S     Quarterly
(b) Urban areas
FWPC (under a City
Bureau)           Pl, P2, E        Monthly   City Bureau         8th
S     Quarterly    "
FWPC (not under a
City Bureau)      P1, P2, E        Monthly   City Bureau        10th
S     Quarterly    "    "
4.    City Bureau               P1, P2, E       Monthly   DFPB               10th
S     Quarterly    "
5.    DFPB                      P1, P2, E       Monthly    (i)  SFPB         15th
S     Quarterly      copy to:
(ii) FP Commis-
sioner (E&I
Section)
6.    State Training Centers    T1, T           Monthly   (i)  SFPB          15th
s                    copies to:
(ii) Regional
Directors
(iii)FP Commis-
sioner
(Training
Section)



ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 27 pages
Last Day of Month
Return From                'Form          Frequency   Destination     for Sending
7.    SFPB                   Pl,P2,E,Tl,T2   Monthly     FP Commissioner    25th
S Quarterly     (E&I) copy to:
Regional Directors,
FP Commissioner
(PB Section)
8.    Central FP Field Ulnits T2, E          Monthly     FP Commissioner    15th
S Quarterly     (E&I) copy to:
Regional Director,
FP Commissioner
(Training)
9.    Central FP Units       T1, T2          Monthly     FP Commissioner    15th
S Quarterly
10.    Central FP Corps       C1, C           MQithly     FP Commissioner    15th
Central FP Corps



ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 27 pages
statistics and is not aware of other data which are the responsibility of
the accountant. District Family Planning Officers do not have the oppor-
tunity of utilizing the full potential of the data they receive every month.
Proper design and training could provide adequate perspective and timely
information for better management and control of their activities. This
situation is also true at the state level. Cost andcapacity data are prepared
only in financial terms with a limited purpose. They do not correlate
financial accounts with physical achievements of the various program activities.
31.       It seems important to have cost data and performance statistics
more closely integrated, from the peripheral units upward. The purpose is
twofold: (a) to assist administrators to think in terms of cost-effectiveness;
and (b) to assist program management, analysis and planning to be more
effective at the various levels. This would require a redesigning of the
reporting system and some revision in the pro formae. Any revisions of the
reporting system must be designed to have minimal revisions in the future.
Revisions will always be necessary because of the dynamic nature of the
program.
The Evaluation System
32.       The objectives of the evaluation efforts undertaken by the program-
administration are described by the Family Planning Department as follows:
"The focus of evaluation of the family planning program at present is
on the purposive assessments of impact of the program, identification
of areas of success and failures and reasons thereof, and feeding
back this information for modification and improvement of program
implementation." 1/
33.       The present evaluation effort is short of what is necessary for
program development and planning.   This deficiency is greater on the State
level because of the following: (a) the lack of analytical capabilities that
could utilize the existing potential of service statistics and supplement
them with additional data; (b) the need for more integrated program statistics;
and (c) some inherent limitation on the scope of evaluation within the system.
34.       Internal evaluation is the major responsibility of the Department of
Family Planning. The Department is responsible for developing and analyzing
specific family planning program data on an All-India basis. The Department
issues a monthly set of statements giving data, by State and Union Territories,
on population, family planning sanctioned staff in position at State and
District levels, t:he numbers of urban and rural Family Welfare Centers required
and functioning, sterilization and IUD program progress, and the number of
persons trained in various courses. These are the main periodic reports
prepared by the Department. They are supplemented by progress reports of the
1/ System of Evaluation of Family Planning Programme, Government of India,
Ministry of Health and Family Planning, Department of Family Planning,
New Delhi, 1958.



ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 27 pages
Regional Directors and by tour reports of the officials of the Family Planning
Department.  An Annual Report is also issued by the Ministry of Health which
contains various details on theprogram. The SFPB issues monthly and annual
reports, but not as comprehensive as those of the Center.
35.       Month-to-month acceptance rates are based on the numbers transmitted
and processed from the periphery to the Center and are generally restricted to
the total number of acceptors of different methods of family planning. There
is, however, no systematic and periodic analysis of data on different charac-
teristics of acceptors (e.g. the interval since the last birth (open interval),
parity, etc.) though such information is often collected at the peripheral level.
36.       The quality and reliability of service statistics becomes the more
important as a result of the recent Government of India initiative in strength-
ening its analytical capabilities. These recent developments include: an
enlarged and functionally expanded wing in the Central Department of Family
Planning and the expansion of State Demographic and Evaluation Cells. Further-
more, the Planning Commission has completed its second thorough and critical
internal review of the Indian program and the Ministry of Health has undertaken
and completed its own review of its current program. Similar developments at
the State level are, however, lagging.
37.       The expanded Demographic and Evaluation Cells are assigned major
responsibilities in examining and streamlining the system of service statistic and
understanding supportive evaluation studies, e.g., follow-up of IUD and steril-
ization clients. These cells, however, need professional guidance in order to
carry on some of their prescribed functions.
38.       The existing organization of these expanded Demographic Cell.s in
Bangalore and Lucknow are far from ideal for the following reasons:
(a) They are too low in the hierarchical structure to do independent
and objective research and evaluation that may question some of
the basic premises of the system.
(b) They are geared to the routine analysis of service statistics.
Service statistics, however, at the present low participation
rates have limited value in explaining program limitation and in
giving guidelines for its management and development.
(c) They do not have adequate capabilities to conduct special studies
to supplement the deficiencies of service statistics mentioned in
(b) above. Thus, these efforts will be limited in scope and
analytical value and, because of their low set-up in the hierarchal
structure, their findings may not have much weight even within their
own department.



ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 27 pages
(d)  A thorough evaluation of present participation rates, prediction
about future participations and careful examination of ways and
means to achieve program targets in the coming years will certainly
require raising     basic questions about possible limitations of
the present system. It needs the undertaking of carefully designed
basic studies with a wide range of implications in the structure
of demand for family planning and its supply. Answers to these
questions may have far-reaching conclusions and are beyond the
capacity of the existing evaluation cells to undertake effectively.
39.       These cells, however, if given adequate training and,support, could
be invaluable in improving the quality of data collection in the State. This
could be done through adequate supervision and training of the staff at the
peripheral units and through carefully designed probability sample checking of
returns in the field.
The Measurement of Fertility
40.       Ultimately, the family planning program will be evaluated in terms of
its impact on fertiliLy. An All-India or an All-State evaluation in these terms
seems to be rather unrealistic in the India set-up at the present time. Serious
efforts in this direction are needed.
The Population Census
41.       The population census is one important source of data for measuring
changes in population growth. The next population census in India is scheduled
for 1971.  The 1971 Census will include a question about current fertility.   The
census, however, has many deficiencies as a means of direct family planning
evaluation:
(a)  Estimated intercensal growth rates represent the outcome of a ten-
year period of changes in fertility, mortality and net migration.
The estimated growth rate becomes an average over the ten-year
period and does not necessarily represent the period of evaluation.
(b)  Uneven change in fertility, mortality, or migration will distort
estimated growth rates for single years.
(c)  Variation in census quality will introduce errors in the estimated
intercensal growth rates. These errors may be greater than the
expeoted short-term changes in demographic rates.
(d)  The time lag is too large to give the most useful program evaluation.
(e)  The census, by its very massive nature, does not include questions
on family planning practice and other questions needed for evaluation.



ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 27 pages
42.       The 1971 Census, however, will give   base-line data on current
fertility and various socio-economic variables. An examination of the age
distribution will also give an indirect measure of change in fertility. Also,
updated and detailed maps and listings, prepared through the Census operation,
are a valuable sampling frame. This information and material must be used in
the project areas when designing base-line surveys.
Vital Registration
43.       An adequate civil registration system would be the ideal method of
keeping track of annual changes in fertility and mortality. However, in India,
as in most of the world, the vital registration system is diot functioning
adequately. More than half the births are not usually registered according to
official statistics.
44.       Acknowledging these deficiencies, the Registrar General's Office has
undertaken the State Sample Registration Scheme on a State-wide probability
sample basis. The Sample Registration Scheme uses a local resident (often the
village school teacher) as a part-time registrar in a sample area of about
2,000 persons. In addition, a semi-independent survey is conducted every six
months to supplement the registrar's reports of vital events, to update estimates
of the base population, and to produce estimates of births and deaths.
45.       Some estimates from the Sample Registration Scheme indicate higher
vital rates (almost double) than those based on civil registration. Reporting
of vital events in the Sample Scheme, however, is not complete and variation
in coverage may very well overshadow any change in fertility resulting from
the program. Bearing these points in mind, it is useful to have the project
areas represented as units for which separate measurements are possible in the
Sample Registration Scheme. This will help, if supplemented with carefully con-
ducted independent surveys, as a continuous external evaluation tool.
46.       Some innovations may be needed to improve coverage and efficiency of
the Civil Registration System. Such innovations may be more effectively intro-
duced if more stress is given to the legal aspects of civil registration.
For example:
(a) More use of teachers in rural areas as part-time registrars
may improve quality and quantity of returns as the Sample
Registration Scheme indicated.
(b) Looked at from the legal point of view, it might be desirable
to consider giving the administrative responsibility of civil
registration to either the Revenue or Police Department.
47.       Another aspect of vital registration which is related to family planning
and needs careful consideration is the use of vital statistics at the peripheral
level as an identification for eligible couples. This could be a good starting
place for a rural postpartum program.  It is true, in order to have estimates of
births and deaths through a vital registration scheme, coverage and quality are
essential. However, in order to have a highly effective postpartum program,



ANNEX 5
Page 16 of 27 pages
or an eligible-couple-referral scheme, less than full coverage will be
sufficient.  It is possible that even a 20 to 30 percent coverage will be
very effective as a reference for couples eligible for family planning
services. Such an approach may replace and supplement much of the field
enumeration and registration done by the FPHA.
C. LIMITATIONS OF THE SYSTEM AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Limitations of the System
48.       Based on various reports and field observations, program achievement
for the year 1969/70, in terms of total IUD insertions and sterilizations
performed has been substantially below the 1968/69 level, and most probably the
1970/71 level will still be lower. This level of performance has many implica-
tions for the program's planned goals in the coming decade. However, the
existing information and evaluation system does not give adequate answers to:
(a) tht extent and structure of such decline and low performance;
(b) reasons causing such decline;
(c) clues to possible corrective actions.
The system is unable to give answers to such crucial questions and prior
indications of their possible occurrence - a function vital for good management -
both at the State and the District levels. For example, there has been no
special report from the District to the State or from the State to the Center
showing concern about possible decline or analysis of the current low level of
performance.
49.       Our analysis of the information and evaluation system indicates that
there are a variety of reasons for this decline:
(a) There is a need for managerial training for responsible adminis-
trative officers in the State and the District levels, especially
the latter. Some responsibilities that are important for efficient
management, e.g. the responsibility of District Officer to reallocate
personnel, material and transport within the District are not clear
to the District Officer. Also important is the lack of financial
flexibility at the District level.
(b) There are no adequate analytic capabilities at the State and District
level that give systematic evaluation of the quality of data, super-
vise the flow of information and its collection and do substantive
analysis of the data collected.
(c) Records and reports are not designed for speedy data processing,
they do not integrate cost and achievement data, and are not kept
adequately at the peripheral units. This makes it difficult to
conduct additional analysis or sample studies needed to supplement
the existing reporting system.



ANNEX 5
Page 17 of 27 pages
(d) Achievement data collected in the system refer only to participating
couples. There is no built-in mechanism for follow-up reporting
or studies. However, given the present low participation rates,
the data will have limited use in explaining reasons for inadequate
demand or in suggesting measures to improve the situation.
(e) Some of the operational functions in the peripheral level require
a large input of registers and recordings which conflict with
efficient operation and management. The FPHA's are required to
keep couple registers and update them for their area of work.
Recording of data is expensive mainly in terms of the opportunity
cost of time; and most of the utility of data collected is
derived from its further use. Its use could be either operational,
i.e. for efficient continuous operation at the relevant unit, or
could be for information and evaluation at higher levels. Data
collected by the peripheral workers (e.g. ANM and FPHA may be
evaluated in terms of these two functions.
Supply or Demand
50.       The system of information and evaluation must be able to answer the
questions concerning the reasons for short- and long-run fluctuations in
performance. There are indeed a large number of factors that contribute to
the functioning of a family planning program. The question of whether the
important factors relate to deficiencies in the supply side of family planning
services being provided or to lack of demand for such services has a practical
significance. However, little has been done in this important area.
51.       Several reasons are usually given on the supply side to explain the
present low participation rates in rural areas; these are as follows:
(a) Medical and paramedical personnel, especially the female, do
not accept employment in rural areas, and if they do they are
usually less motivated than expected.
(b) Medical facilities, including reasonable accommodation, are
inadequate in most rural areas.
(c) Transportation and communication necessary for initial visits
and follow-up services are not usually available.
(d) There is insufficient in-service training mainly because of the
cost involved.
(e)  The decline may be due to limited demand but the evaluation system
gives no clues of this.
52.       Several of these reasons do not exist in urban areas.   However, the
participation rates, although generally higher in urban areas are not as high
as they should be. More important, the general decline in performance during
the last and current financial years is also true in urban areas. This can be
due either to a decline in the efficiency with which services are provided or



ANNEX 5
Page 18 of 27 pages
to a decline of demand. With existing information, it is impossible to say
which of these factors is the more important.
Recommendations
53.       It must be mentioned that there is no single factor or a group of
factors that could be singled out as responsible for the success of an
organization. It is usually a combination of factors (their level and mix)
that are responsible.
54.       Data Collection and Reporting
(a) Redesigning the reporting system to facilitate its analytic
purposes and to reduce its complexity. For example, the use of
'book registers' to record individual cases on the peripheral level
is difficult to maintain, to supervise, and to update systematically
for extended periods. Consideration should be given to a 'coupon
system' or to a 'clinical record system' that includes pre-coded
questions. They are simpler for coding, quick sorting and analysis.
Details of such systems are given in 'A Handbook for Service
Statistics in Family Planning Programs,' a publication of The
Population Council.
(b) Integrating performance and cost data not only in the reporting
book, but also as part of the normal managerial function of the
administrative staff in the District and theState. A thorough
discussion of cost effectiveness on the operational level seems
essential. Extensive training and demonstration will be needed
to implement such procedure.
(c) Reporting of performance statistics at the State level may include
some basic client characteristics, e.g. parity and the time since
last pregnancy (open interval). Such information is essential for
program evaluation. The two items suggested for inclusion in a
standard format of reporting are relatively easy to report and
are more reliable than data on age for example.
(d) Bookkeeping at the various levels may be redesigned to give easy
and efficient access for adequate supervision, inspection, and
as a source for evaluation and research needs. For example,
more consideration may be given to the filing system and storage
facilities of these basic data at the various levels within the
State.
(e) Standard reporting forms may be printed by the State Bureau and
made available in adequate supply to the District and peripheral
levels.



ANNEX 5
Page 19 of 27 pages
55.      Personnel and Training
Cf)  The [District statistical investigator needs crmore training in
handling the data and checking its quality. This training
could be done by having a training course of 2-3 weeks in the
State Bureau, followed by in-service training. Training may
by the responsibility of the Demographic Cell of the State.
(g) An additional administrative-statistical officer is needed at
the District level. The purpose is to relieve the DFPO of
some of his routine administrative role so that he can spend
more time on technical supervision, public relations, and
overall planning and policy.
(h) The State Demographic and Evaluation Cell needs both guidance and
training. This could be done by the staff of the suggested
Population Center.
(i) More supervision is needed. Not inspection but guidance. Thus,
supervisors in the area of reporting and evaluation must know
the technical aspects and underlying logic of the reporting system
and be able to demonstrate how to do it.
56.       Vital Registration
(j) Given the reasonable spread of primary education (there are at least
1000 teachers per district), it is recommended that primary school
teachers be used on a part-time basis to collect vital rates in
the villages. This has been proved practical in the Sample Regis-
tration Scheme. It will probably improve the quality and coverage
of vital registration at a relatively low cost. The teachers, then
may be used as the focal point of contact for motivational work.
(k) More emphasis should be given to the use of the existing vital
registration system (with suggested improvements mentioned above)
as a reference for eligible couples, and not only as a source of
data to est:imate vital rates. Thus, Family Planning Health Assist-
ants and other workers doing field motivational work may use the
teachers' and the collected data instead of collecting their own
data.
(1) Some means to increase the demand for vital registration may be
tried. For example, the use of attractive birth certificates
bound in hard plastic covers for easy maintenance and storage.
(m)  The Sample Registration Scheme should continue.   More use of
its findings, especially on the operation side may be made



ANNEX .5
Page 20 of 27 pages
and the project areas may be represented in the Scheme.
This could be done by appropriate arrangements with the
Registrar General.
(n)  In U.P. the Health Department is responsible for civil vital
registration.  The system as described in 'Guide on Birth and
Death Registration' by the Family Planning Communication
Action Research Project of Lucknow, needs careful examination
in view of the above comments.
57.       General Recommendations
(o) Family planning is given a high priority in the Government
of India planning process. Family planning, however, is a
highly complex and interdisciplinary subject. It touches
on and affects almost all aspects of life. No scientific discipline
alone, and for that matter no single Governmental Department
could examine and control population growth and its consequences.
It needs the joint efforts of the various disciplines of the
whole Government machinery to achieve the ambitious goal of
reduced fertility.
(p)  In India, Health facilities have been, and will continue to be,
the major outlet of contraceptive supplies until new effective
and acceptable non-medical methods of contraception are introduced.
Furthermore, because of the health orientation of the subject,
health facilities and personnel play a major role in motivation.
This must continue and be strengthened; but all other Departments
must get into the field as well, both as potential sources of
distribution and as major factors influencing demand. Such com-
bined effort needs a high level of interdepartmental cooperation
and coordination.
(q)  It is evident that there is a sizable gap between actual perfor-
mance and desired targets of client participation. If it becomes
apparent to the Government that the present active motivational
approach is not sufficient to lead to sufficient participation
to reduce fertility, the population problem will become increas-
ingly acute. Society must decide on either living with the
consequences of such population pressures, or trying various
other ways and means to effect demand more directly: e.g. give
more incentives to acceptors and/or make changes in laws and
regulations that may affect fertility su,J fiS marriage laws,
inheritance laws and various types of tax.aLon.   A successful
family planning program must always examine the various factors
that affect the supply side as well as those affecting the demand
side. Changing the factors that make demand more favorable are
as important as changing the factors that make supply more



ANNEX 5
Page 21 of 27 pages
efficient. A program that does not examine all possible factors is
incomplete. Various policies and strategies, however, will vary in
terms of their immediate potential effect, their financial and
administrative feasibility, and/or their social and political accept-
ability. To study, experiment, and implement such varied policies,
the cooperation of all Governmental and private agencies will be
needed (e.g. Health, Labor, Agriculture, Justice, Finance, Planning,
Welfare and Voluntary Agencies).
58.      Areas of Research and Experimentation
1. An Urban Approach - It is important to answer the following questions:
(i) Under the most favorable circumstances and conditions that could
be offered :Ln India, and with the implementation of the full
potential of the family planning program for a period of 3-5
years, what will be the reduction in fertility and its cost?
(ii) What is the pattern of the diffusion process from the urban to
the rural community?
(iii) Is it feasible to attain the targeted reduction in fertility within
the existing system and what are reasons for success or failure?
To design such experiments, an overall effort in large urban areas,
i.e. Lucknow and, Bangalore, is necessary. All efforts should be
made to make the! supply of family planning services as efficient as
possible. This is feasible in urban areas. )Many problems related
to personnel, transportation, accommodation, supervision and training
either do not exist or can be dealt with effectively in urban areas.
Careful monitoring of the experiment is necessary to measure the
base line, the progress, and the various inputs including those of
management, quality of personnel and advisory support.
2.  Other Studies - There are many other possible areas of research
that need further examination. In particular, the relationship
between infant and child mortality and the demand for family
planning services is worthy of attention. Also, more experimenta-
tion with incentives needs to be done. A careful evaluation is
needed before judging the full potential of such procedures.
Trials in limited areas are needed for testing:
(i) The relative effects of concentrating on reducing infant mortality
as rapidly as possible in a limited area and offering family
planning services within this scheme, as opposed to providing
family planning services with little or no MCH care.
(ii) Incentive for current family planning users (e.g. IUD or vasectomy)
who refer new clients for IUD or vasectomy. Users will be paid
if they are continuous users and if they refer a client who
becomes a user.
(iii) Incentives for communities and community leaders.



ANNEX 5
Page 22 of 27 pages
Mechanisms to Strengthen Evaluation and Research
59.       The type of research and experimentation that is being recommended
requires technical skills and training. Such capabilities are not available
in the existing State Demographic and Evaluation Cells and the economics of
raising the capabilities of these units may have questionable value and may
not be feasible given their status in the governmental hierarchy.
60.       The importance of the expected findings of the type of experiments
being recommended, the policy implications of its conclusions, and the com-
plexity and interdisciplinary approach of its design and analysis warrant
giving such projects high priorities. Also, it is important to involve
Departments other than the State Bureau in the formulation and supervision
of such extended work.
61.       A strong organization should be formed in the State and be attached
to a high-level secretariat, possibly headed by the State Chief Secretary.
The following section will discuss the details of this State Population
Center.
D. THE POPULATION CENTER
General Purpose
62.       The central function should be continuous review in the broadest
sense of the population trends and programs of the selected districts and
cities. This means (1) information for understanding what is happening;
(2) the generation of new ideas and their effective communication to the
appropriate administrators; and (3) cooperation with the administrators to
work out specific plans for implementation and evaluation of new ideas that
are accepted as feasible by the administrators.
63.       The Center should be a nucleus for other activities as well
(e.g. training). However, its primary objective is to demonstrate that it
is possible to understand by systematic observation and research: (a) essential
elements of the complex bio-social system that sets fertility levels in the
area; (b) the specific nature and effects of the program; and (c) the range
and tested feasibility of plausible and promising alternatives to what is being
done.
Evaluation Objectives
64.       The essential beginning should be a fair but critical monitoring of
the present evaluation system:
(a) This should begin in close cooperation with the new State Demog-
raphic and Evaluation Cell to improve the accuracy, speed the
flow, and begin the genuine analysis of the existing records.
What can be done within the existing record system?



ANNEX 5
Page 23 of 27 pages
(b) Since this will never work without training and liaison with
district level statisticians and block level computors, a
program for training, retraining, and continuing liaison with
evaluation personnel should be an early part of the program.
(c) There must be close and continuous interaction with the State
Demographic and Evaluation Cell. This would be eased if they
were housed in offices adjoining those of the Center, with such
services as mechanical tabulation, standard printing of forms,
etc. provided. The situation should encourage frequent joint
meetings, formal and informal.
(d) A "supervisory team" should be frequently on tour to observe
how different types of personnel and units are operating. It
is clear that some problems are so acute that they do not require
refined statistics for diagnosis. Administrative and organiza-
tional reviews can be done by teams from the Center and the
regular government organization.
65.       The Center must go far beyond these minimal services for making
the existing records and operations work as well as pos3ible. It should
also cover:
(a) The description and analysis of the reproductive histories of
the general population of child-bearing age and not just the
minority reached by the program.
(b) The fertility and family planning histories of samples of all
couples ever served by the program - especially after they
leave the program.
(c) The design and monitoring of experimental program variations
in cities, districts, and blocks.
(d) The study of the characteristics and performance of various
types of workers and of administrative arrangements.
(e) Demographic rate estimates for program areas.
66.       The Center should be responsive to the specific information requests
of the program administrators as a matter of very high priority. However, it
is essential that such service be rendered with candor. Requests for informa-
tion that does not exist should not be met by creating fictitious figures. It
should be clear in the organization and charter of the Center that long-range
as well as short-range research is part of its essential task. For example,
learning just why Tndian birth rates after age 30 are so low in comparison with
other high fertility countries, may be at least as important as estimating the
condom sales in district X for 1971. Research on the general and the specific
should proceed simultaneously. The Center will earn respect and tolerance if
it can answer a reasonable number of current administrative questions, but it
will really score if it can be ready to answer the questions, now unformulated,
that will arise three years later.



ANNEX 5
Page 24 of 27 pages
Management and Advisory Services
67.       Analysis of data from routine records, surveys, the statistics of
other agencies, observation, etc. should have as one objective, recommenda-
tions and ideas for strengthening or changing the operation of the program.
Such ideas will emerge sometimes because the research has been designed to
answer specific questions (e.g., what kinds of couples want family planning
now? What kinds of workers accomplish the most under what circumstances?,
etc.). There should be a link and constant prodding from the program side
for practical results. For Somple, if it could be shown that the great
majority of IUD dropouts use other methods to keep their fertility low without
program aid, then an important administrative decision could be made to
concentrate fieldworker resources on new cases rather than on follow up of
dropouts.
68.       Unless there is a close interaction between the research-evaluation
side and the program operators, these ideas will not be utilized, and in time
will cease to be developed. To facilitate such interaction:
(a)  There must be some real linkages by persons having appointments
in both the program and Center.
(b) The Center must do its best to find out what are the perceived
needs of the administrators and serve those so far as that is
possible, without prejudice to its b- .-i objective.
(c) Administrators will become enthusia.--, allies when they find
that their programs are becoming famous and discussed by reason
of the analysis and write-ups of the research process. Open
publication and analysis of the defects as well as the strengths
of the program can be a credit for administrators if accompanied
by objective and critical analysis of what the problem is and
what solutions are proposed.
Other Functions of the Center
69.       Training - The main function of the training activities of the Center
will be related to development and the introduction of new techniques and the
evaluation of the training program; but, to be effective, the Center must also
do some training. The Training Division should:
(a) Train all statisticians, demographers, social scientists
employed by the State program;
(b) Train personnel for new programs initiated in program areas;
(c) Develop mobile or district level retraining and seminar programs
for local personnel of all kinds; and
(d) Circulate materials that are prepared in the Center to other
training units in the State.



ANNEX 5
Page 25 of 27 pages
70.       Administrative Seminars - Whether regarded as training or not,
there should be regular seminars of the district level officers in the
program areas to hear their problems, tell them about the research underway,
and exchange ideas for program implications and changes.
71.       The Center should offer to provide space and some equipment to
physically house the State Demographic Evaluation Cell and the Urban Council.
The rationale for all this is:
(a) Proximity will facilitate interaction.
(b)  Since skilled personnel will be scarce on, both sides,the
same persons can be used for different tasks. Training,
research and operations should not be isolated. The appoint-
ments can be in one unit or another but it should be possible
to have a researcher or an administrator really involved part-
time in training and vice-vrersa.
(c) The Center will furnish logistical services for the program,
both regularly for a few things (e.g. data processing) and as
necessary, for special needs.
72.       The generation of ideas is a primary product of the Center.    It must
be made as clear as possible that this is not a clerical-statistical operation
only. For this purpose, the Center should issue a regular report to the state
ard to the Central Government and the Planning Commission on "Population and
Family Planning in Mysore (U.P.): 1971 - the Record to Date and Plans for the
Future."
Needed Resources
73.       Personnel Requirements - A staff of significant size will have to be
built up for the Center to reach its full potential, but the key essentials
for the evaluation side are:
(a)  One senior Indian with status, imagination, and sympathy for
research and experimentation.
(b) One Deputy Director who is senior and with experience and basic
background in social research and demography.
(c) Four to six Indians who have training and drive. It would be
possible to put together a team of 4-6 such young Indians who
could make all the difference given a competent and resourceful
directcr. Their basic background should be in survey methodology
and statistics; in socio-medicine, and demography-economics.
(d) Ten Research Supervisors who will constitute the core of the unit.
Basic background may be at least a Master's in any of the social
sciences. Research supervisors will undertake on-the-job extensive
training in the following areas: sample design and execution, data



MNEX 5
Page 26 of 27 pages
processing, including computer facilities, interviewing techniques,
editing and coding techniques. They will be trained for at
least 6 months initially while developing the initial material
for the b,ase-line surveys to be conducted in the project areas.
These benchmark surveys in Lucknow and Bangalore should be the
first act:ivities of the Center. Staff will be recruited for that
purpose and trained. The best ten will be retained as research
supervisors. This core of research supeirvisors will be the basis
for training and re-training temporary interviewers, editors, or
coders needed for special surveys. The- will also be responsible
and involved in training program personnel in the Demographic and
Evaluation Cells; and
Four computer key-punching operators to operate mechanical tabulation
equipment.
74.       Equipment and facilities - The following seem to be minimum essentials:
(a) a budget which can be drawn on flexibly with changing needs.
This is essential;
(b) adequate space equipped with reasonable office equipment to
include functioning typewriters and calculators;
(c) a small unit for key-punching and for mechanical tabulation.
Access to a computer is desirable, but not essential;
(d) vehicles for staff, interviewers, etc. and telephone connections
between the points at which research is done.
75.       Advisory Service - Two outstanding persons - one senior with status
and experience and orLe junior but with experience - are needed. At least one
should have experience in survey work in developing countries, preferably in
relation to a populat:ion program. Short-term consultants who are specialists
in sampling, communic ations, computer work, etc., will be needed. The senior
advisor, while sympathetic to research, should be familiar with program opera-
tions. The junior advisor will be responsible for the research side.
E. TRAINING
76.       Most of the technical training in the project area will be done by
the Center. The following is a schematic presentation of the various training
functions and their expected time path:
(a)  Recruitment of Advisors a:id Directors     - 6-12 months
Recruitment of senior and middle level
staff at the Population Center
(b, Training I: Development of Base-line Survey 8-12 months
In this training all the senior and middle level staffS of the Center
will undergo extensive on-the-job training through the development of
the necessary material for the base-line survey. They all must go to



ANNEX
Page 27 of 27 paSes
the field, check the available data at the peripheral levels,
do actual interviewing, etc. The following are some of the
basic functions to be done:
- study all available data
- study forms and registers
- prepare the survey objectives
- prepare the sample frame
- prepare the sample design and material
- prepare the questionnaire
- study interviewer instruction books
- edit and code
- pre-test the questionnaire.
During this period it will be most usefiul to involve the State
Demographic and Evaluation Cell's personnel and the statistical
officers in the District Bureau.
(c) Training II: Training of Personnel in the State Demographic
and Evaluation Cell and in the District
This will be a continuous function. The time needed for these
units to reach their full capacity utilization cannot be precisely
estimated. The Population Center must reach a high level of
maturity to be able effectively to assist and influence the
units in the State and Districts.
77.       In general, the success of the Center will depend largely on its
personnel - their technical capabilities as well as their personalities.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4 pages
INPUTS AND RESULTS IN PROJECT AREAS
A. INPUTS
The first table shows the number of maternity beds in UP and
Mysore, while tables 2 and 3 show the availability of key staff in
each of Districts included in the project of UP and Nysore.
TABLE 1: MATERNTTY BEDS IN UP AND MYSORE
TOTAL
I, U.P. DISTRICT           HOSPITAL        PHC      OTHER       MATERNIY BEDS
Lucknow R.                --            24        --             24
Faizabad                  44            26        28             98
Sultanpur                 34            55        4              93
Pratapgarh                20            --        --             20
Muzaffarnagar             44               51                    91
Saharanpur                30               50                    80
RURAL TOTAL    406
Lucknow City - in 4 hospitals -
II. MYSORE DISTRICT
Bangalore R.              32            81       34             147
Kolar                    120            73       69             262
Tumkur                   192            32        28            252
Chitradurga              115            34       11             160
Shimoga                   80               80                   160
RURAL TOTAL    ga1
Bangalore City - in 8 hospitals and 18 maternity              1,591
The above tables indicate 1.3 maternity beds per 10,000 population in
M4ysore Rural and 13.2 beds per 10,000 population in the city of
Bangalore.
In the rural areas of U.P0 the level is 0.46 beds per 10,000 population,
while in Lucknow city, the ratio is 5.2 beds per 10,000.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4 pages
TABLE 2: U.P. - MCH/FP STAFF - RURAL
DISTRICT iEADQUAMCERS STAFF
Opera-           PHC                  ANM      TOTAL IN GOVT. SERVICE
Adm  Infor. tional Mobile Doctor               PHC & Sub-
DISTRICT       Unit Unit   Unit   Unit   M    F LHV BEE FPHA Centers Doctors Nurses ANM FWW DAIS
BUNGALORE
RURAL
Required        8     6      3     14      8   8 16    8 40      82       -       -     -   -   -
In Position     5     5      1     11      8   - 10    8 32     69*      NA      NA    27 42 37
FAIZABAD
Required        8     6      3     1-4    18 18 36    18 91     181       -       -     -   -   -
In Position     4     5      1      8    17   -  12 16 68       69*      31      36    16 53   54
SULTANPUR
Required        8     6      3     14     19 19 38 19     85    207       -       -     -   -   -
In Position     5     4      1      9    13 -    11 19 76       39*       7       2    27 12   78
PPATAPGARH
Required        8     6      3     14.    15 15 30    15 75    179        -       -     -   -
Tn Position     5     4      0      7    13 -      8 15 60      41*      23       3    23 18 54
MUZAFFARNJAGAR
Required        8     6      3     14     14  14  28 14 56      140       -       -     -   -   -
In Position     5     1      1      7    12   -  11   9 55      88*      NA      NA    31 57 62
SAHARANPUR
Required        8     6      3     14     16  16 32 16    75   150        -       -     -   -   -
In Position     5     5      1      7    15 -    16 15 52       74*      47      NA    31 43   53
Includes Family Welfare Workers (FWW).



ANNEX 6
Page i of 4 pages
TABLE 3: MYSORE - MCH/FP STAFF - RURAL
DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS STAFF
Opera-          PHC                    ANM      TOTAL IN GOVT. SERVICE
Adm  Infor. tional Mobile Doctor                PHC & Sub-
DISTRICT       Unit Unit    Unit   Unit   M    F  LHV BEE FPHA  Centers Doctors Nurses ANM FWW DAIS
BUNGALORE
RURAL
Required         8     6      3     14    19  19   38 19   70     178       -       -     -   -   -
In Position     4     4      2       6    29 13    39 19   32     242      115     0    242-      -
KOLAR
Required        8      6      3     14    15 15    30 15   56     142        -      -     -   -
In Position     3     4      3       5    15   5   17 15   21     201       99    44    201   -
TUT4IUR
Required         8     6      3     14    16  16   32 16   75     182       -       -     -   -
In Position     6     2      3       5    21   5   20 16   58     216      117    35    219   -
CHITRANDURGA
Required        8      6      3     14    13  13   26 13   56     137       -       -     -   -
In Position     4     2      1       6    17   5    9 13   35     144       92    49    147    -
SHIMOGA
Required        8     6       3     114   10  10   20 10    35    212       -      -      -   -   -
In Position     5     3      3       6    10   6   14 10    35    212      102    55    221   --



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. RESULTS
In Bangalore Division, IUD acceptance has decreased by
70.2% from 1967-68 to 1969-70. Similarly, vasectomy acceptance has
decreased by 81.7%, Tubal sterilization has increased by 357.5%, and
condom users have increased by 7.7%. Total acceptances have de-
creased by 47.7% (on the basis of 72 condoms distributed equal one
acceptor per year). In the project area of U.P., IUD acceptors decreased
by 17.5%, from 1967-68 to 1969-70. Tubal sterilizations increased by
49.6%, and condom users increased by 813% (on the basis of 72 condoms
distributed equals one acceptor per year). These results are subject
to the methods of calculating condom users. The following table
summarizes these results:
TABLE 4: PROGRAM PROGRESS
BANGALORE DIVISION (MYSORE)
YEARL      IUD     VASECTO0MY  TUBECTOMY   CONDOM USERS     TOTAL ACCEPTORS
1967-68   20,007     39,894      2,466        14,376             76,743
1968-69   10,274     24,629      4,291        16,474             55,668
1969-70    5,964      7,305     11,282        15,484            40,035
U.P. DISTRICTS
1967-68   16,089     12,910        924         2,304            32,227
1968-69   13,489     14,780      1,158         6,023            35,450
1969-70   13,270      6,739      1,382        21,040            42,431
Pieces distributed divided by 72



ANNEX 7
Page I-of 2 pages
STAFF AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS OF SERVICE
MOTIVATION TEAMS
1. The desirab.ility of trying such an approach is based on the following:
(a)  The inadequacy of medical staff, in particular lady doctors at
the PHC level;
(b) The creation of a group psychology that leads individuals to
adopt FP more easily if they know their neighbors are also
accepting these services; this has been borne out by the success
of the camp technique in India.
(c) The working of the members of this unit together for extended
periods of time would improve their effectiveness.
2.  At each stop, covering roughly 12 villages the team would face
some 1250 couples, of which about 40% or 5X) may have three or more
children. Of these one-third or 165 cases could accept sterilization,
say 70%, for vasectomy and 30% for tubectomy. In addition, about 150
IUD cases can be expected. Given the above, 6 doctor-days for vasectomy
operations, 5 doctor-days for tubectomy and 5 doctor-days for IUD
insertion, the team would cover the District in three years.
a. Staff
Medical -- 1 male doctor, 2 female doctors, 2 operating room
nurses, 2 operating room attendants, 2 nurses' aids
Motivational -- 2 Extension Educators (male), 1 Social Worker (Male)
1 Social Worker (Female), 2 auidio-visual techni-
cians
Administrative -- 1 Team Administrator, 1 Administrative Assistant,
1 Computor, 2 U.D. Clerks, 2 bearers (medical),
1 bearer (motivational), 5 drivers, 1 cleaner
b. Equipment
Medical -- 1 generator, 2 OR lights, 2 OR tables, instruments,
surgical supplies, drugs, medicines, vaccines
Motivational -- 2 motion picture projectors, 2 generators,
2 public address systems, 2 screens, 2 sets audio-
visual materials (films, group teaching aids.)
Vehicles -- 1 Bus (for equipment transport, staff transport,
patient transport); 1 audio-visual bus-van (evenings
for village motivation, daytime for patient and
staff transport); 2 Jeep station wagons (staff/trans-
port, supplies and as second audio-vi6usal unit;



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2 pages
1 utility Jeep (staff and patienttransport,
administrative use).
The cost estimates for this equipment are as follows:
Vehicles                                   Unit Cost     Total Cost
(Rupees)      (Rupees)
1 Bus                                   32,000         32,000
1 A-V Bus-Van                           32,000         32,000
2 Jeep Station Wagons                   20,000         40,000
1 Jeep, Utility                         18,000         18,000
Vehicles:   Subtotal      122,000
Audio-Visual Equipment
2 Film Projectors                        4,000          8,000
2 Generaators                            3,000          6,000
3 PA Systems                             3,000          6,000
2 Projection Screens                     1,000          2,000
2 Sets, Films, Other                     5,000         10,000
A-V Equipments    Subtotal       32,000
Medical/Surgical Equipment
1 Generator                              3,000          3,000
2 OR Lights                              1,500          3,000
2 OR Tables                                600          1,200
Instruments                             .15,000        15,000
Medical/Surgical  Subtotal       22,000
Equipment:
TOTAL         176,000



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 13 pages
INDIA POPULATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS AND NUMBER OF SUBCENTERS
1. SUMMARY TABLE
UTTAR PRADESH STATE
2. Lucknow District (rural)
3. Faizabad District
4. Pratapgarh District
5. Sultanpur District
6. Muzaffarnagar District
7. Saharanpur District
MYSORE STATE
8. Bangalore District (rural)
9. Chitradurga District
10. Kolar District
11. Shimoga District
12. Tumkur District
Note: In the following tables NA denotes PHC dispensaries, family
planning wings, or staff quarters which have not been constructed.
These are included in the project. The project also includes
incomplete buildings (denoted by I). Only those buildings that
have been constructed (denoted by A) are not in the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 13 pages
1. SUMMARY TABLE
A. UTTAR PRADESH
Lucknow Faizabad Pratapgarh Sultanpur Muzaffarnagar Saharanpur      Total
1. PHCs
a. Dispensary   4        5        11         5            7            7           39 l/
b. Staff
Quarters    5       6(12.1)   15        5(8.1)        6            7           54
c. FP Main
Center      5       18        14b        18          13           14           82
d. FP Staff
Quarters    8       18        15         18          13           14           86
2. Subcenters J/60      177       139         187        138          116          710
i/ According to the GOI plan of 1 Subcenter per 10,900 population.
2/ For cost purposes, staff quarters under construction are assumed to be
one-half completed.
B. MYSORE
Bangalore   Chitradurga  ShimoEa   Kolar   Tumk-jr    Total
1. PHCs
a. Dispensary               NA            NA           1       NA         2        3
b. Staff
Quarters                4              4           4        6         7        25
c. FP Main
Center                 19            13           10       15         16       73
d. Staff
Quarters               19            13           10       15         16       73
2. Subcenters               60            92           62       69        125      508
C. TOTAL PROJECT
PHCs
Dispensaries         -     42
Staff Quarters       -     79
FP Main Center       -    155
Staff Quarters       -    159
Subcenters           - 1,325



ANNEX a
Page 3 ,f 13 pages
2. UTTAR PRADESH - LUCKNOW (Rural)
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                           Family Planning Wing
Name of PHC        Dispensary   Staff Quarters      FP Main Center    Staff Quarters
1. Mohonlalgany           NA             NA                  A                NA.
2. Malihabad              NA             NA                 NA                NA
3. Kapari                 NA            NA                  NA                NA
Lk. Chinhat               NA             NA                 NA                NA
' Sarajninagar             A             A                  NA                NA
6. Bakghi-Ka-Talal         A             NA                  A                NA
7. Goshainganj             A              A                  A                NA
8. Mall                    A              A                 NA                NA
Total needing
construction        4              5                   5                 8
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel (ANMs and FWWs) 1/                           Buildin s  /
Sanctioned   Functioning   Required              Constructed ?     _/Not Constructed
80            77           3                      20           6o
1/ Both are under health and FP budgets.
2/ Includes buildings under construction.



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 13 pages
3.   UTTAR PRADESH - FAIZABAD
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing              Family Planning Wing
Dispensary    Staff Quarters    FP Main Center Staff Quarters
Name of PHC
1. Sohawal                 NA               NA               NA              NA
2. 'Maya Bazar             NA               NA               NA              NA
3. Harintinganj            NA               NA               NA              NA
4. Ehion                   NA               NA                NA             NA
5. Ramnagar                NA               NA               NA              NA
6. Mashoda                 A                I                NA              NA
7. Tarun                   A                I                NA              NA
8. Milki Pur               A                I                NA              NA
9. Khandasa                A                I                NA              NA
10. Pura Bazar              A                I                NA              NA
11. Katehri                 A                I                NA              NA
12. Bhiti                   A                I                NA              NA
13. Bashari                 A                I                NA              NA
14. Jahangirganj            A                NA               NA              NA
15. Akberpur                A                I                NA              NA
16. Jalalpur                A                I                NA              NA
17. Tanda                   A                I                NA              NA
18. Bikapur                 A                I                NA              NA
Total Needing
Construction          5                 6(12.I)           18             18
A = Available or under construction.
NA = Not available.
I  = Incomplete (i.e., staff quarters exist for only part of staff).
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel (ANMs and FWWs)Vl                             Buildings
Sanctioned Functioning   Required              Constructed j   Not Constructed
183         88           95                   6                  177
1/ Based on 1 per 10,000. Note that project may require 1 per 5,ooo).
2/ Both are under health and FP budgets.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 13 pages
4. UTTAR PRADESH - PRATAPGARH
A.  PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                                       Family Planning Wing
Name of F'HC            Dispensary  Staff Quarters          FP M?in Center    Staff Quarters
1. Amargarh                 NA            NA                      A                NA
2. Patti                    NA           NA                      NA                NA
3. Mangraura                NA            NA                     NA                NA
4. Sandwa-Chandika           A            NA                      NA               NA
5. Sangipur                 NA           .NA                     NA                NA
6. Gaura                    NA            NA                     NA                NA
7. Shedgarh                 NA            NA                     NA                NA
8. Sadar                    NA            NA                     NA                NA
9. Lalganj                  NA           NA                      NA                NA
10. Derwa                    NA            NA                     NA                NA
11. Babaganj                  A            NA                     NA                NA
12. Laxmanpur                 A            NA                     NA                NA
13. Mandhata                 NA            NA                     NA                NA
14. Kunda                     A            NA                     NA                NA
15. Katra Gulab Singh        NA            NA                     NA                NA
Total Needing
Construction            11           15                      11
B. SUBCEN'iERS
Personnel (AN4s and FWs)                              Buildings
Sanctioned    rnlNctiani                Required           Constructed     Not Constructed
150                  61                89                  11               139



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 13 pages
5. UTTAR PRADESH - SULTANPUR
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                                 Family Planning Wing
Name of PHC               Dispensary  Staff Quarters     FP Main Center   Staff Quarters
1. Dubeypur                  A             I                  NA              NA
2. Kurwar                   NA            NA                  NA              NA
3. Kurebhar                  A             I                  NA 1/           NA
4. Joaisinghpur              A             I                  NA              NA
5. Bhadaiyan                 NA           NA                  NA              NA
6. Dhanpatganj               A             A                  NA 1            NA
7. Amethi                     A            A                  NA _            NA
8. Gauriganj                 A             I                  NA              NA
9. Bhetua                   NA            NA                  NA              NA
10. Bhadar                    A             I                  NA"             NA
11. Musafirkhana              A             A                  NAl!            NA
12. Jagdishpur                 A            A                  NA              NA
13. Jamon                     A             I                  NA              NA
14. Baldirai                  A             I                   A               A
15. Kadipur                   A             A                  NA -            NA
16. Dostpur                   NA           NA                  NA              NA
17. Akhand Nagar              A             A                  NA 1/           NA
18. Kamaicha                 NA            NA                  NA              NA
19. Lambhua                   A             I                  NA              NA
Total Needing
Construction              5            5(8.1)             18              18
1/  PHC with FP extension.   The FP wing is not designed according
to the GOI pattern.
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel (ANMs and FWs)                           Buildings
Sanctioned         Functioning          Required      Constructed    Not Constructed
194                  49                 143             7              187



ANNEX 8
page 7 of 13 pages
6- UTTAR PRADESH - MUZAFFARNAGAR
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                                Family Planning Wing
Name of PHC           Dispensary   Staf    a-rters    FP Main Center  Staff Quarters
1. Monna                  A             A                 NA             NA
2. Jansath                .t            A                 NA             NA
3. Baghra                 A             A                 NA             NA
4. Buidhana               A             A                 NA             NA
5.                        A             A                 NA             NA
6. Kandhla                A             A                 NA             NA
7. Kairana                A             A                  A             NA
8. Purqazi               NA             A                 NA             NA
9. Megha Kheir           NA            NA                 NA             NA
104 Ghahibpur             NA            NA                 NA             NA
11. Charthawal            NA            NA                 NA             NA
12. Shabnimr              NA            NA                 NA              A
13. Thana Bhawan          NA            NA                 NA             NA
11. Kurmali               NA            NA                 NA             NA
Total Needing
Construction          7             6                 13             13
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel (ANMs and PIWWs)                          Buildings
Sanctioned         Functioninfg      Required         Constructed   Not Constructed
l4o                 88              52                  2              138



ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 13 pages
7. UTTAR PRADESH - SAHARANPUR
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                                Family Plarring Wing
Name of PHC           Dispensary   Staff Quarters    FP Mbin Center Staff Quarters
1. Nakur                  A             A                A              A
2. Gangoh                 A             A               NA             NA
3. Sarsawa                A             A               NA             NA
4. Nagal                  A             A                A              A
5. Deobqd                 A             A               NA             NA
6. Nanuta                NA            NA               NA             NA
7. Rampur                NA             A               NA             NA
8. Roorkee               NA            NA               NA             NA
9. Bhagwanpur            NA            NA               NA             NA
10. Bahadrabad             A             A               NA             NA
11. Narson                NA            NA               NA             NA
12. Laksar                 A             A               NA             NA
13. Muza f Jrabad          A             A               NA             NA
14. Sidholi Sadim         NA            NA               NA             NA
15. PuwTa rka             NA            NA               NA             NA
16. Sunehtikharkheri       A            NA               NA             NA
Total Needing
Construction          7             7               14             14
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel (ANMs and FWWs)                               Buildings
3anctioned  Functioning  Required            Required   Constructed   Not Constructed
128           Q7         hi                 128          12            116



ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 13 pages
8. MYSORE - BANGALORE (Rural)
A. PRIMARY HIEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                          Family Planning Wing
Name of PHC          Dispensary   Staff Quarters       FP Main Center   Staff Quarters
1. Anekal               A              A                   NA               NA
2. Dommasandra          A              A                   NA               NA
3. Hesaraghatta         A              A                   NA               NA
4. Kadugondanahalli     A              A                   NA               NA
5. Singasandra          A             NA                   NA               NA
6. Hosahalli            A              A                   NA               NA
7. Mudigere             A              A                   NA               NA
8. Bettahalsur          A              A                   NA               NA
9. Doddaballapur        A              A                   NA               NA
10. Kanaswadi            A              NA                  NA               NA
11. Jadagenahalli        A              A                   NA               NA
12. Sulebele             A              NA                  NA               NA
13. Hosadurga            A              A                    NA              NA
14. Kanakapura           A              A                   NA               NA
15. Magadi               A              A                   NA               NA
16. Solur                A              A                   NA               NA
17. Nelamanagala         A              A                   NA               NA
18. Bidadi               A              A                   NA               NA
19. Konankunte           A              NA                  NA               NA
Total 'Tcding
Construction           0              4                    19              19
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel'                                           Buildings
Sanctioned Functioning   Required                      Constructed    Not Constructed
182          177          5                             22              16o
1/ Includes Mysore-type subcenter units.



ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 13 pages
9. MYSORE - CHITRADURGA
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                            Family Planning Wing
Name of PHC        Dispensary     Staff Quarters       FP Main Center    Staff Quarters
1. Parasurampura      A               A                    NA               NA
2. Thalak              A              A                    NA               NA
3. Pandarahalli        A              A                    NA               NA
4. Sirigere            A              A                    NA               NA
5. Anaji               A              NA                   NA               NA
6. Kodaganur           A              A                    NA               NA
7. Harihar            A               A                    NA               NA
8. Yeraballi           A              NA                   NA               NA
9. Dindawara           A              NA                   NA               NA
10. Holalkere           A              A                    NA               NA
11. Hosadurga           A              NA                   NA               NA
12. Molakalmur          A              A                    NA               NA
13. Jaglur              A              A                    NA               NA
Total Neding
Construction         0              4                    13                13
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel                                   Biuildings
Sanctioned   Punctioning Required               Constructed   Not Constructed
NA            NA          NA                     19              92



ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 13 pages
10. MYSORE - KOLAR
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                               Family Planning Wing
Name of PHC         Dispensary   Staff Quarters           FP Main Center    Staff Quarters
w. Bagepalli          A           NA                       NA                NA
2. Kamasamudra        A           A                        NA                NA
3. Kyasamballi        A           NA                       NA                NA
4. Dibbur             A           A                        NA                NA
5. Batalapalli        A           Ak                       NA                NA
6. Kaiwara            A           NA                       NA                NA
7. Nangondlu          A          N4A                       NA                NA
8. Thondebavi         A           INA                      NA                NA
9. Gudibanda          A           Ai                       NA                NA
10. Sugutur            A           NA                       NA                NA
11. Vakkaleri          A           A                        NA                NA
12. Malur              A           A                        NA                NA
13. Mulbagal           A           A                        NA                NA
14. Sidlaghatta        A           A                        NA                NA
15. Kurgepalli         A           A                        NA                NA
Total Needing
Construction      0           6                         15               15
B. SUBCENTERS
Personnel                                         Buildings
Sanctioned  Functioning    Required                   Constructed  Not Constructed
112          120          2                           43             69



ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 13 pages
11. MYSORE - SHIMOGA
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                               Family Planning Wing
Nameof PHCDispensary                 Staff Quarters      FP Main Center    Staff Quarters
1. Arebilichi             NA             NA                   NA              NA
2. Karebilichi             A              A                   NA              NA
3. Tavarakere              A             NA                   NA              NA
4. Honnali                 A             NA                   NA              NA
5. Hosanagar               A              A                   NA              NA
6. Tahalaguppa             A              A                   NA              NA
7. Ayanoor                 A              A                   NA              NA
8. Shirolkoppa             A              A                   NA              NA
9. Sorab                   A              A                   NA              NA
10. Konandur                A             NA                   NA              NA
Total Needing
Construction           1              410                                 1
B. SUBCENTEIIS
Personnel                                         Buildings
Sanct.ioned      Functioning       Required           Constructed      Not Constructed
NA                NA              NA                   31                 62



ANNEX q
Page 13 of 13 pages
12. MYSORE - TUMKUR
A. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS
Health Wing                             Family Planning Wing
Name of P4C            Dispensary    Staf? Quarter-s   FPMin Center     Staff Quarters
1. Chikkanayakanahalli   A              A                   NA             NA
2. Gubbi                 A              A                   NA             NA
3. Holavanahalli         A              A                   NA             NA
4. Amruthur              A              A                   NA             NA
5. Kunigal              NA             NA                   NA             NA
6. Hosakere              A             NA                   NA             NA
7. Ku.dlapur             A             NA                   NA             NA
8. Kotegudda             A              A                   NA             NA
9. Pavagada             NA             NA                   NA             NA
10. Bargur                A              A                   NA.            NA
11. Sira                  A              A                   NA             NA
12. Biligere              A             NA                   NA             NA
13. Nonavinakere          A             NA                   NA             NA
1h. Kyatasandra           A              A                   NA             NA
15. Nagavalli             A             NA                   NA             NA
16. Thuruvekere           A              A                   NA             NA
2             7                   16              16
B. SIJBCENTERS
Personnel                                        Buildings
Sanctioned      Functioning       Required              Constructied   Not Constructed
173             169                                     48              125



ANNEX 9
COST ESTIMATES FOR PROJECT                                               Page 1 of 2 pages
Total .Gdt (in 00'1E
Item                                           Unit Cost (000's)              Number                    U.P.            1ysore               Total
Re       Uj I.P.                PbYsore   Total       Re     US$       Rs     U.          T ts     V
.1 LUCFW.O.. Alir- LAUICALrONL ,1 .
1. :opulatlon Center                            1,500     200              1        1        2      1,500     200    1,500     200        3,Q'  79 L.0O
.aternlty Roa.1t;lL *lth AWEl Zchool:
l1'-tcd tio.pitale attached to present
r-eIical college inistitution, inoluding
outpatient facilities, operating roomo
and other supportive services               3,000     400              1       1         2      3,000     400    3,000     400       b,00n      800
aternity s,omese: Construction or
renovrtion or these homes as satelite
care centers of tnaternity hospitals -        450      60             10       6
10 to 30 beds El                              '60)     '8)            new  extenfions   16      4,500     600      600      80       5,100      (r0
h. Urban r'.mily 'Jelrare 'enters:  Some
ornstruction but mainly renovation            75      10              6       8        14        450      60      600      80       1,050      140
4 '.-'ional 'inlY E''lanl-nj- Trainln, 'e-ter:
onstrucLioiI oer -'nter Inaluding hoetel
acconolation                                  500      67              1       1         2        500      67      500      67       1,000     l1 <
.hools: Construction of school
including classroom, demonstration
room e-uiaumert and hostel accoaodation
'ttached to Urban Hospitals                  400      53              2       1          3        800     107      400      53       1,200      160
Sub-Total: Urban             10,750   1,433    6,600     880      17,350   ?,31'
7.   ,ii hr--:,.t - :'uL l1n,g: for District
A'iniistration - one per District
excert Banr-alore  ural                       750    100               5      4          9      3,750     500    3,000     400       6,75n      ,00
-  terlllztlon 'lards:
-!to:rul   !- 0 beds in *A.trict
oesoittls, uith onerating room if
uecesar.y                                     300      40              5       5        10      3,000     400    3,000     400       u,h)oo     "'U
. - -,hool : 'tta Thed to ''istriet
C--,I test.  'or all rural l2iatricta
exceut -angalore '.ural                       400     53               5      4          9      2,000     267    1,600     213       *,C'4
1  - * rkwnr  alth *entern
'. .: '-.ter-nty  toi of 15-20 beds in
n:!.::',' arUI *oatparum District
l r). In-lu'les operating
room annd aupportive services l-O P112's
c.lose to 'dat,riet Hospital per t1istrict    200      27             10      10        20      2,000     267    2,000     U67       ! ,l       :.':
. .   en2arien                                  100      13             39       3         42      3,900     520      300      40       4,200
. trt uartera                                    80      11             54      25         79      4,320     576    2,000     267       t, 20      :1,
li.   'aln 'enter                                   25       3-3           83     73        155      2,o50     273    1,825     6L3        . ':      *1
It.. FT' 'tafl uartera                             50       6.7           BE,     73        159      11,300    573    3,650     407        ,'ho    2'q
11   - *ut- *:terr'e-:S
J-.    - '   :-'entero                             15       2            508     817      1,325      7,620   1,016   12,255   1,634      1 Cj-
i: '       iditional .ut-'ente-a                   10       1.3          900       -        900      9,000   1,200        -       -       *,        ,
'ehi^lea                                       22.5      3            75     49         124      1,688     225    1,103     147        ,7        '-
'ub-Total:  Rural Areas     43,628   5,817   33,733   4,098      71i. -LO
Total:                      54,378    7,250   37,3P3   4,978     G,I P.    11
-. 'ox.t-n. e  1< of' total)                                                                       8,156   1,088     c600    747       l',797    1,4'.
Total:                       62,5 4   8, 38     ,  .   5,725     11' it I  11,
Y " itn  e                                                                                                                   atnittacnce
Dece notes attathed



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2 pages
Notes on Table
1.      Costs are in 000's of constant 1970 rupees.   Construction costs
estimated on the basis of 25.00 rupees per sq. foot.
2.      Ten new maternity homes in Lucknow with 30 beds each and the addition
of 10 beds to six existing homes in Bangalore City. Total addition of beds:
300 in Lucknow and 160 in Bangalore. Costs of 450,000 rupees are for new
homes. Extension costs of adding 10 beds are 10,000 rupees.
3.      Attached to Vanivillas Hospital in Bangalore and to Queen Mary and
Dufferin Hospital in Lucknow.
4.      Number of PHC Dispensaries, staff quarters for health Family Planning
Main Center and staff quarters for family planning determined on the basis of
the gap between requirements as determined by Government of India and PHCs
actually constructed or under construction. The location of these PHCs is
shown in Annex 6. The summary of this Annex shows the required number of each
of the PHC components.
5.      For ANM-Subcenters. The number is determined by the gap between
requirements according to the Government of India plan and subcenters already
constructed or under construction. In Mysore, this includes Mysore State
type health units and total number to be constructed will result in a ratio
of 1 subcenter per 7,800 population ( on the basis of 1970 population).   For
U.P., the sanctioned subcenters (576 sanctioned, of which 68 have been con-
structed) fall short of the Government of India pattern of 1/10,000, instead
the number is 1/17,000 on the basis of 1970 population. The addition of 900
subcenters will lead to an average ratio of 1/6,700. Subcenters for ANMs
are those designed in the Government plan (600 sq.ft.) whereas dai subcenters
include one clinic room and suitable quarters, with a total area of 400 sq. ft.
6.      Provision of vehicles as follow:
- PHC                      -   one jeep
- PHC-Maternity Wing        -  one bus-ambulance
- ANM School               -   two buses
- Maternity liospitals     -   one sedan, two bus-ambulances
- District Headquarters    -   two jeeps, one sedan
- RFPTC                    -  one jeep, one bus
- District Training .Team  -   one jeep



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3 pages
1/
ADDITIONAL ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES (in 000's)
A. SUMMARY TABLE
U.P.       Mysore          Total
Rs2/  US$   Rs2/   US$      Rs2/ US$
1.  Population Center                            500     67    500    67   1,000   133
2.  Rural Postpartum Program for
Intensive District (Variant III)         1,700   227     550    73   2,250   300
3.  Urban Postpartum Program                     650     87    575    76   1,225   163
4.  Training                                     175     23    175    23     350    47
5.  Mobile Service-Motivation Teams               200    27    200    27     400    53
6.  District Administration                       50     67     50    67     100    13
3/            3/     4/      3/
3,275   43T  2,050    273-  5,35w   713-
B. DETAILED BREAKDOWN OF ESTIMATES
5/                                    Unit      Total Cost
1.  Population Center -                                      Cost    U.P.      Nysore
a.  Administration                                              100,000    100,000
b.  Evaluation Division                                         200,000    200,000
c.  Training Division                                           100,000    100,000
d.  Other                                                       100,000    100,000
Total                 500,000    500,000
Grand Total                1,000,000
1/ These are in constant prices, using where possible, present Government Scales.
They are the expenditures that would be required once the whole project
becomes fully operational. First and second year expenditure will be lower
than figures shown here. Excludes costs of foreign advisor.
2/ Rounded to nearest Rs 25,000.
3/ May not add up due to rounding.
7/ Rs 25,000 added for Deputy Secretary at the Center.
5/ Crude estimates on basis of a professional staff of about 25-30 persons plus
clerical and other supporting staff.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3 pages
Total Annual   Total for
1/                                Expenditures/    whole 2/
2.  Rural Postpartum Program                   Unit   Scale       District     Program-
1. District Level
a. Pediatriqian                           1    10,800     10,800         43,200
b. Ob-gp  3                               1    10,800     10,800         21,600
c. ANM NA                                 5     2,400     12,000         24,000
d. Operating Theatre Nurse                1     3,600      3,600         14,400
e. Operating Theatre Attendant            1     1,200      1,200          4,800
f. Driver                                 1     1,680      1,680          6,720
2. PHC Level
a. LHV                                   33     3,000     99,000        396,000
b. ANM                                   13     2,400     31,200        124,800
c. Female Medical Doctor                 12    10,800    129,600        518,400
3. Sub-Centers-4/
a. Dais                                 217     1,500    325,500        651,000
b. ANM                                   94     2,400    225,600        451,200
5/
3.  Urban Postpartum Program                           Lucknow       Bangalore
1. Maternity Hospital Staff
a. Ob-gyn (4)                                    48,000          48,000
b. Pediatrician                                  12,000          12,000
c. Operating Theatre Nurse (4)                   96,000          96,000
d. Operating Theatre Attendant (8)                6,720           6,720
e. Sister Nurse (8)                              24,000          24,000
f. Staff Nurse (8)                               20,000          20,000
g. Supervisor Nurse (2)                           7,200           7,200
h. ANM (12)                                      21,600          21,600
i. Other (12)                                    14,400          14,000
2. Maternity Homes-/                               325,000         250,000
3. Urban Family Welfare Centers7/                   72,000          72,000
Total           646 _,O0         571,920
Grand Total            1,218,840
1/ This is for four Districts - two in U.P., two in Mysore. Figures are average
figures for the "typical" Districts.
2/ Times 4 for all except sub-centers. Time 2 for sub-centers, where there are
additional expenditures only in U.P.
3/ Additional for U.P., already sanctioned in Mysore.
T/ Only in U.P.
5/ Administrative Staff that will assist urban program included under Population
Center.
6/ Ten in Lucknow, six in Bangalore. Staff is always additional, even when
maternity homes are an extension of existing home as in Bangalore.
7/ Two additional centers in each of Lucknow and Bangalore are in project, one
of which will be attached to maternity hospital.



ANNEX 10
Page 3 ot 3 pages
4. Mobile Service-Motivation Teams'                       U.P.          Mysore
a. Medical         - 3 doctors                       45,000         45,000
2 OT Nurses                      6,000          6,000
2 OT Attendants                  2,400          2,400
b. Motivation      - 2 Male Extension Educators        7,200          7,200
1 Female Social Worker           3,600          3,600
1 Male Social Worker             3,600          3,600
2 Audio-Visual Technicians       4,800          4,800
c. Administrative  - 1 Team Administrator            12,000         12,000
1 Administrative Assistant       9,600          9,600
1 Computor                       1,800          1,800
5 Drivers                        9,000          9,000
2 Bearers                        2,400          2,400
2 Clerks                         2,400          2,400
d. Supplies (medical drugs, audio-visual materials,
food, maintenance of vehicles)           80,000        -80,000
Total Recurring Costs      189,800        189,800
Grand Total                        379,600
5.  Training                                              U.P.          Mysore
1. RFPTC 3/                                          80,000         80,000
2. District Training Tea 4/                         100,000        100,000
Total                180,000        180,000
Grand Total                  360,000
Unit         Total Cost
6. Administrative                                   Cost       U.P.     Mysore
- Center:  1 Deputy Secretary                21,600         ---21,600----
- District: 1 Administrative-Statistical
Officer                       9,600       48,000    48,000
Total                        48,000    48,000
Grand Total                       117,600
1/ One such team per State. Each team will also require non-recurring costs
in the form of vehicles (1 bus, 1 A-V van, 2 jeep station-wagons), audio-
visual equipment (2 film projectors, 2 generators, 2 projection services,
films) and medical-surgical equipment (OT lights and tables, 1 generator),
and instruments. Total cost of this equipment is estimated at Rs 175,000
per team.
2/ Excludes Training Division of Institute - latter is shown under Population
Institute and is estimated to cost Rs 2000,000 annually (salaries of 10
persons, equipment and supplies).
3/ For additional staff of ten at each RFPTC.
4/ Includes salaries for team (one doctor, one nurse, one health-educator/social
scientist, one statistician), supplies and petrol.



MAP I
iv<JAMMU & KASHMIR
tHNAMA.  C )
TENRI                       TD I  B   E   T
L..
IBHUTAN                                           I ASS
,  ADOI  RA  '                 ,*SAJEEL  1,,  "RR
JODHPURAsA   R                                            JALPAIGURI I4.
,N                    A  U> g7        U.AN A A \    COUCHNI  2U ADL A  3'9   NAGAS ARALANof-
R oA J M es
ONA                             NR NE
A UG              SAA ,'  'UI .j  N   U ,  H N   UNITES
BAR.<g\ I                                                     M/ EGPLA A.ITIO HILL
5AL      NUALUAR}
URULLA      E  ST A
ITT L                  ..uj.ULL..
GA Vl       N l  AA. N. C    H                           TE  BOUNRARIE
-NSA ARAR U    . UARCOT IU              K
,RR150  (  ,POPULATIONNA                      PROJECT
Ess
LA KANAR                                            o ANlNTAP
CRTUURIYAO I
STATE B OUNDAN
MADRAS                   STAT  CAPITALS
*                                        NATICNAL CAPITenAL
NTAN                                       O  NOAPU
GUTU                    NO DT S
0                    0  N   S   O
13~                                    POPULATIO L      ROEC
NOVEMER 190                                                                                lORL320



MAP 2
UTTAR PRADESH STATE
I N D I A                                      POPULATION     (91.5 MILLION)
. . //  .*STATE BOUNDARY
GARHWAL                       ................ DIVISIONAL BOUNDARY
UTTARKASHI  N                                              DISTRICT BOUNDARY
_*. --__LUCKNOW DIVISION NAMES
c *....TEHRI GARHWAL  CHML   sMEERUT
TENIKUMflAONk                                          MEU     DISTRICT NAMES
-             '\      0*                                       POPULATION IN MILLIONS
\ PITHORAGARH
/ SAHARANPUR PAURI GARNWAL/         '   '
SAHARANPUR                                                 DENSITY  OF POPULATION  PER SOUARE MILE:
-ALMORA    f
-      *    *ABOVE 1000
MVZAFFARNAGAR.    .    .
'j      @       ,BIJNOR  **-.-  a-\  \
v  -       (     .  NAINI TAL                                           750 -1000
*                    MEERUT    0-0 5DD - 750
MMEERU
MMORADABAD XRAMPUR            ROHELKHAND
F             0                 .*                                       250 - 500
BULANDSHAHR -    jBAREILLY / P1 L I     ULUCKNOW
B 8       ,        \                                                    BELOW  250
j        BUDAUN               /        . '
*.             -         /   KNERI           FAIZABAD
MA URA                                           BAHRAICH    -
AGAV-..                 .       NRO      SITAPUR     (i                        ______
AGRA                            *HARDOI ll*                                     GORAKHPUR
GON A A A  \ M A                                             GORAKNPUR I
ETAWAN.- ~                             ~..BASTI  %   0  j
'ARA BANKI              r      DEOA K.
.....  KANPUR   UNNAO      .  -
0    25   50         100          /                                      FAIZABAD   *     ..J
AILAE                                       .   RAEBARELI  SULTANPUR
(Approcimale Scrale)                *-~     /   /  RAE  I  .    0     '   ..,AZAMARH
JNANSK'           P***fATEHPUR    PRATAPGARH         0    .   BALLIA .
NAMIRPUR w        D    (      0    . JAUNPUR            0 *
'            *-     -  (   GHAZIPUR
((   .          0     .k.  BANDA      ALLAHABAD  ,             Q7
BUNDELKHAND             J .             MIRZAPUR  I     VARANASI
\    &.                           ALLAHABAD         0      l
\N
NOVEMBER 1970IBD31



MAP 3
a  <        r                                                       N D I A
-I N D l A                                               .MYSORE                        STATE
POPULATION     (29.5 MILLION)
BIDAR
GULBARGA
(        .   GULBARGA
BELGAUM           ¶ *
/                                                      *    -STATE BOUNDARY
................ DIVISIONAL BOUNDARY
BIJAPUR
- DISTRICT BOUNDARY
,.. -,              .               MYSORE   DIVISION NAMES
t                  RAICHUR                         BANGALORE DISTRICT NAMES &
BELGAUM                     R       *-'-.JPO"ULATION IN MILLIO! S
-  --            *            2     9                    DENSITY OF POPULATION  PER SQUARE MILE:
ABOVE 500
DHARWAR       .
R           /          5                 ,401 - 500
C?                        .-    BELLARY                                           301-400
NORTH KANARA /
201 - 300
...BELOW 200
~ t  .: -   CHITRADURGA                                  B   2
SHIMOGA
i..              ....      -                   /D
CHIKMAGALUR    ,     .  TUMKUR             KOLAR
.                              ©       ,i g  *             N ......  ' . .'
.                                       r BANGALORE .
SOUTH                                                  .. *. . 3 .;.
KANARA    A/   HASSAN      *.*      . \ BANGALORE CITY  :
I.f
(               MANDYA            Jr
COORG                                      B BANGALORE
MYSORE                          MYSORE
0  25     50           100
MILES
NOEME  9Appro70mBe Scale)
NOVEMBER 1970                                                                                               I BRD 3210



