CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 312 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 312 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1972, between INDIA acting by its
President (hereinafter called India) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) India has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of a population project described in Schedule 1 to the Agreement referred to in
Whereas (C) hereto (hereinafter called the Project), by extending the credit
(hereinafter called the Association Credit) as hereinafter provided;
(B)   India has requested a grant from the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter
called Sweden) to assist in the financing of the Project and Sweden has ag--ed,
by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Swedish Grant
Agreement), to make available to India for such Project a grant (hereinafter called
the Swedish Grant) in a principal amount of fifty-one million Swedish Kronor
(SKr 51,000,000), equivalent at the rate of exchange between the Swedish Kronor
and the US Dollar of 4.81:1, to approximately ten million six hundred thousand
dollars ($10,600,000) upon terms and conditions set forth in the Swedish Grant
Agreement;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith (said agreement, as amended
from time to time, hereinafter called the Joint Financing Agreement), India, Sweden
and the Association have agreed on the description of the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit, and on
the allocation, withdrawal and use of such proceeds, as well as on other matters;
(D)   Parts 2.1 and 2.2 of the Project will be carried out by The State of
Mysore (hereinafter called Mysore) and The State of Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter
called Uttar Pradesh), respectively, with India's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, India will make available to the said States part of the proceeds of
the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit as provided in the Swedish Grant
Agreement and hereinafter; and
(E)   The Association is willing to make the Association Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the agreements of even
date herewith between Mysore and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, and the Association;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated Januaiy 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Mysore Agreement" means the agreement between the Kingdom of
Sweden, The State of Mysore and the Association, of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to said Agreement;
(b)   "Uttar Pradesh  Agreement" means the agreement between the
Kingdom of Sweden, The State of Uttar Pradesh and the Association, of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
include.. all schedules to said Agreement;
(c)   "Project Area" means (i) the following five districts in Mysore,
including Bangalore City: Bangalore, Chitradurga, Kolar, Shimoga, and Tumkur,
and (ii) the following six districts in Uttar Pradesh, including Lucknow City:
Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Saharanpur, and Sultanpur;
(d)   "Program" meal-. the family planning program of India, and includes
its organizational structure; and
(e)   "ANM" means Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife.
ARTICLE II
The Association Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to India, on the terms and
conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various


﻿5
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million two hundred thousand dollars
($21,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Association Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Agreement and in accordance with Article II of the
Joint Financing Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 197 or such other date
as shall be agreed between India and the Association.
Section 2.04. India shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per ainum on the principal amount
of the Association Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. India shall repay the principal amount of the Association Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 1982 and ending May 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the insLallment payable on May 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, India shall: (i) carry out Part K of the Project
and cause the rest of the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, and technical practices;
(ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources


﻿6
required for the purpose; and (iii) take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable Mysore and Uttar Pradesh to perform all their respective
obligations under the Mysore and the Uttar Pradesh Agreements, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   India shall make available to Mysore and Uttar Pradesh the equivalent
of $10,080,000 and $10,580,000, respectively, out of the proceeds of the
Association Credit.
Section 3.02. Within sixty days after this Agreement becomes effective with
respect to each of the Parts of the Project described in paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2
of Schedule I to the Joint Financing Agreement, India shall make contractual
arrangements on terms and conditions which shall include, inter alia, those set
forth in Schedule 3 to the Mysore and Uttar Pradesh Agreements, respectively,
and after consultation with the Association, with the institutions that Mysore and
Uttar Pradesh shall employ pursuant to Sections 2.04 of the Mysore and Uttar
Pradesh Agreements, respectively, to provide said institutions assistance necessary
to develop adequate capabilities in the field of population planning.
Section 3.03. India shall cause a study to be carried out of the functional,
anthropometric and environmental condition: necessary to ensure the satisfactory
performance of the types of buildings to be constructed under the Project, in
consultation with the National Buildings Organization of India and the Building
Research Institute of the CSIR, in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Schedule 4 to the Mysore and Uttar Pradesh Agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Examination
Section 4.01. India and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Association Credit will be accomplished. To that end, India
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by Mysore and Uttar Pradesh of their respective obligations under the Mysore and
the Uttar Pradesh Agreements, the administration, operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of India
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Association Credit; and


﻿7
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Association Credit. On the part of India,
such information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of India, including its balance of payments, and the
external debt of India, of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of
India or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) India shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of India responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   India and the Association shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the
performance by Mysore and Uttar Pradesh of their respective obligations under
the Mysore and the Uttar Pradesh Agreements.
Section 4.03. India shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of India for
purposes related to the Association Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Association Credit
shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of India or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Joint Financing
Agreement, the Mysore Agreement, and the Uttar Pradesh Agreement shall be free
from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof, impnned under the laws of India or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Association Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and
moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of India or laws in effect in
its territories.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to India declare the principal
of the Association Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the right of India to withdraw the proceeds of the Swedish Grant
shall have been suspended, or India shall have been unable to withdraw such
proceeds, in whole or in part;
(b)   any amount of the Swedish Grant shall have been cancelled under
paragraph 1.4 (a) of the Annex to the Development Grant Agreement;
(c)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of India under the Joint Financing Agreement; and
(d)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of Mysore or Uttar Pradesh under the Mysore Agreement
or the Uttar Pradesh Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditio
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to India, and India shall have
failed to obtain funds for the Project from other sources in substitution therefor,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Swedish Grant Agreement and the
Joint Financing Agreement, on behalf of India, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Mysore Ag7eement and the Uttar
Pradesh Agreement by Mysore and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(c)   the Governing Boards referred to in Sections 2.02 (a) of the Mysore
and the Uttar Pradesh Agreements have been established;
(d)   the Directors of the Population Centers referred to in Sections 2.03
of the Mysore and the Uttar Pradesh Agreements have been appointed
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to
said Agreements; and
(e)   the Project Coordinators, the' Project Family Planning Officers, and
the Project Nutrition Officers referred to in Sections 2.02 (b) of the
Mysore and the Uttar Pradesh Agreements have been appointed.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Swedish Grant Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, India, and constitute valid and binding obligations of India in accordance with
their terms; and
(b)   that the Mysore Agreement and the Uttar Pradesh Agreement have
been duly authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Mysore and
Uttar Pradesh, respectively, and constitute valid and binding obligations of Mysore
and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, in accordance with their terms.


﻿10
Section 7.03. Except as India and the Association shall otherwise agree, if
all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement other than those
relating to only the Parts of the Project described either in paragraph 2.1 or 2.2
of Schedule 1 to the Joint Financing Agreement shall have been fulfilled, this
Agreement shall come into force and effect in respect of the part of the Credit
allocated to financing the Parts of the Project described in paragraph 2.2 or 2.1
of said Schedule, respectively.
Section 7.04. The date October 17, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General CoAditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of India; Addresses
Section 8.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of India, acting singly, is designated as representative of India for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For India:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting throagh      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to, be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATTONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purposes of this Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a)   By the deletion of the words "Development Credit Agreement" and
the substitution therefor of the words "Joint Financing Agreement" in paragraph 9
of Section 2.01 of Article II.
(b)   By the addition of the word "Association" after the word "term"
in paragraph 4 of Section 2.01 and the substitution of the words "Association
Credit" for the word "Credit" wherever the latter appear indicating the term defined
in said paragraph.
(c)   By the deletion of paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 and the substitution
therefor of the following:
"5.  The term 'India' means India, acting by its President."
(d)   By the addition of the following paragraph in Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'State' means one of the two States of India where
the Project is to be carried out."
(e)   By the addition of the following paragraph in Section 2.01:
"14. The terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement have
the meanings therein set forth."
(f)   By the deletion of Sections 5.01, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06 and 5.07.
(g)   By the deletion of Section 6.02 (h), so that Section 6.02 (i) becomes
6.0 2 (h).
(h)   By the addition of the words "the Mysore Agreement and the Uttar
Pradesh Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
Section 6.06.
(i)   By the addition of the words "and the Joint Financing Agreement"
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" wherever they appear in
Sections 8.01 and 8.02.


﻿13
(j) By the deletion of the last full period and the addition of the following
paragraph to Section 10.01:
"; provided, however, that the Development Credit Agreement may
become effective in respect of the part of the Project to be carried out
in only one State."
(k)   By the deletion of the full period and the addition of the following
words to Section 10.03:
"; provided, however, that the Development Credit Agreement shall come
into force and effect only in respect of the part of the Project to be carried
out in one State if the Association so states in said notice."
(1)   By the addition of the following words to Section 10.04:
"Provided, however, that the Association may establish different dates for
the purposes of this Section, in respect of the part of the Project to be
carried out in each State; and provided further that if the Development Credit
Agreement shall have become effective in respect of the part of the Project
to be carried out in one State, the termination of the Development Credit
Agreement and of all obligations of the parties thereunder shall take place
only in respect of the part of the Project to be carried out in the other
State.


