CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 312 IN
Joint Financing Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 312 IN
Joint Financing Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1972


﻿JOINT FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       June  14, 1972, between     INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called India), the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter called
Sweden), and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS by an agreement between India and Sweden of even date
herewith, (hereinafter called the Swedish Grant Agreement), Sweden has agreed
to make available to India a grant (hereinafter called the Swedish Grant) in a
principal amount of fifty-one million Swedish Kronor (SKr 51,000,000) equivalent,
at the rate of exchange between the Swedish Kronor and the US Dollar of 4.81:1
to approximately ten million six hundred thousand dollars ($10,600,000), for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
WHEREAS by an agreement between India and the Association of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Association Credit Agreement), the Association has
agreed to make available to India a credit (hereinafter called the Association Credit)
in a principal amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million two
hundred thousand dollars ($21,200,000) for the same purpose; and
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed on the allocation, withdrawal and
use of the proceeds of such grant and credit and the execution of the Project
to be financed thereby, as well as on other matters, as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "Swedish
Grant Account" and "Association Credit Account", wherever used in this
Agreement, mean the respective accounts established under the Swedish Grant
Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawals of Proceeds of the
Swedish Grant and the Association Credit
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation set forth
in the Swedish Grant Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement and subject
to the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Association Credit Agreement, the amount
of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit may be withdrawn from the
Swedish Grant Account and the Association Credit Account, respectively, in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the
proceeds of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant
to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between India, Sweden
and the Association. Except as India, Sweden and the Association shall otherwise
agree, withdrawals shall be made simultaneously from the Swedish Grant Account
and the Association Credit Account on a 1:2 ratio, and applications for withdrawals
shall be deemed to be requests to withdraw funds from both said Accounts in
the said ratio.
Section 2.02. India shall be entitled to withdraw from the Swedish Grant
Account and from the Association Credit Account such amounts as shall have been
jpaid_-(, -if-the Association shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments
to be made) for the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) When India shall desire to withdraw any amount of the
Swedish Grant or the Association Credit, India shall deliver to the Association
a written application in such form and containing such statements and agreements
as the Association shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the
necessary documentation, as hereinafter provided shall, except as India and the
Association shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures
for the Project.
(b)  India shall furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request,
whether before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c)  Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence
must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Association that India is
entitled to withdraw from the Swedish Grant Account and the Association Credit


﻿5
Account the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes specified in this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) When the Association shall have approved an application
by India for withdrawal, the Association shall:
(i)        pay the amount which India is entitled to withdraw from the
Association Credit Account to or on the order of India in
accordance with the provisions of the Association Credit
Agreement; and
(ii)       promptly notify the Sveriges Riksbank, acting as agent for
Sweden, in the manner and to the extent set forth in this
Agreement, that it has received an application for withdrawal
and the amount set forth in such notice is eligible for payment
by the Sveriges Riksbank. Upon receipt of such notice from the
Association, the Sveriges .Riksbank shall, subject to the rights
of suspension and cancellation of the Swedish Grant set forth
in the Swedish Grant Agreement, pay the amount so to be
withdrawn from the Swedish Grant Account in the currency and
to the payee stated in the notice.
Section 2.05. Upon India's request and upon such terms and conditions as
shall be agreed upon between India and the Association, the Association may enter
into special commitments in writing for payment in respect of the cost of goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant and
Association Credit. Any such special commitment by the Association shall, once
it has been notified to Sweden and the Sveriges Riksbank, constitute an obligation
on the part of Sweden to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or
cancellation of the Swedish Grant, its part of the amount to be disbursed in
fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 2.06. If for purposes of this Agreement any proceeds of the Swedish
Grant are to be withdrawn in a currency other than Swedish Kronor, the Sveriges
Riksbank shall remit the requested foreign currency amount and shall debit the
Swedish Grant Account with the Swedish Kronor equivalent of such amount
calculated on the basis of the current market selling rate or, if no such rate applies,
such rate as shall be reasonably determined by the Sveriges Riksbank.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Use of
Proceeds of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit
Section 3.01. India shall carry out Part K of the Project and cause the rest
of the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, and technical practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as India, Sweden and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant or the
Association Credit or both, shall be procured on the basis of the procedures set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation; Information and Examination
Section 4.01. India shall cooperate fully with Sweden and the Association
to assure that the purposes of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, India, Sweden and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of any party, exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement
as well as other matters relating to the purposes of the Swedish Grant and the
Association Credit.
Section 4.02. India, Sweden and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by any party of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.03. India shall enable representatives of Sweden and the Association
to examine all sites, works, properties, equipment, records and documents relevant
to the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address specified below or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request:
For India:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Alternative address for cables:
Ecofairs
*                         New Delhi
For Sweden:
(a)  insofar as Sveriges Riksbank acts as agent
for Sweden for purposes of this Agreement:
Sveriges Riksbank
Box 2119
S-10313 Stockholm 2
Sweden
Alternative address for cables:
Riksbanktn
Stockholm
(b)   for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development Authority
S-10525 Stockholm 1
Sweden


﻿8
Alternative address for cables:
SIDA
Stockholm
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 5.02. India shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority of the person or persons who will sign the applications provided
for under Article II of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of India, take any
other action or execute any other action or execute any other documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by India under this Agreement, and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original. All such counterparts shall collectively be but one
instrument.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed by the parties hereto,
this Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the Swedish Grant
Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement shall both be in effect, provided,
however, that if said Agreements become effective in respect of the part of the
Project to be carried out in only one State, this Agreement shall also become
effective only in respect of that part of the Project.
(b)   If the Association Credit Agreement terminates for failure to become
effective in accordance with its terms, this Agreement shall forthwith terminate
and the Association shall promptly notify the other parties of such termination;
provided, however, that if the Association Credit Agreement terminates only in
respect of the part of the Project to be carried out in one State, this Agreement
shall only terminate in respect of that part of the Project.
Section 5.05. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto
hereunder shall terminate (i) on the date upon which both the Swedish Grant
Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement shall have terminated or (ii) on
a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement or (iii) on the date upon which


﻿9
the parties shall have fulfilled all obligations arising from this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.06. Upon termination of the Swedish Grant Agreement or the
Association Credit Agreement only, Sweden or the Association, as the case may
be, shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon such notification,
this Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect only for the purpose
of implementation of the Association Credit Agreement or the Swedish Grant
Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties
hereunder, subject to such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed among
the parties thereto or as shall be reasonably requested by Sweden or the Association
for such purposes.
Section 5.07. Unless otherwise notified to India and the Association, the
Association shall represent Sweden in all matters relating to the implementation
of, including amendments to, this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names, and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s/ HubertdeBesche
Atuthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s   J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
1.   The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)   complete the health infrastructure, training facilities and equipment
to fully implement India's program of family planning services
throughout the Project Area; and provide additional inputs in part of
such Area to supplement and test alternatives to said program, in
particular the establishment of a supplementary nutrition program; and
(b)   create one Population Center each in Mysore and Uttar Pradesh to
design a system to evaluate performance of the Project on a continuous
basis and to recommend changes in India's family planning program.
2.    The Project consists of:
2.1   Mysore
Part A:     The construction, equipping and furnishing of the following
facilities:
(i)         one Population Center including a Project office, and
about five residences in Bangalore;
(ii)       (a) six Urban Maternity Homes in Bangalore, each with
about 30 beds and one Urban Family Welfare Center
attached to each; and (b) eight Urban Family Welfare
Planning Centers in Bangalore;
(iii)      five  Auxiliary  Nurse-Midwife   Schools  with  hostel
accommodation for 78 trainees each and five units of
living quarters for about 10 students each, attached to
Primary Health Centers;
(iv)        five buildings for Program Administration, one in each
Project District;
(v)         five Sterilization Annexes with about 30 beds each, one
in each Project District, and nine such annexes to
sub-District-level hospitals with about 24 beds each;


﻿*                                  11
(vi)        ten Primary Health Center Maternity-Sterilization Wings,
with about 24 beds each, in the Kolar and Chitradurga
Districts;
(vii)      six hundred and ninety-four sub-centers, consisting of
clinics and living quarters for Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives;
and
(viii)      extension of the Regional Family Planning Training Center
to accomodate 48 students (present building provides for
30 students).
Part B:     The procurement of the following vehicles:
57   jeeps for the Primary Health Centers;
6   jeeps for the Project office;
6   jeeps for the Population Center;
1   jeep for the Mobile Training Unit (RFPTC);
25    ambulances for Urban Maternity Homes, Primary Health Center
maternity wings and Annexes to Taluk hospitals;
10   mini-buses for Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife schools;
2    mini-buses for the Population Center; and
4    mobile vans for service and motivation teams.
Part C:     The provision of technical assistance for training abroad of staff
of the Population Center and personnel working in program
administration, and for advisory services to the Population
Center.
Part D:     The procurement of equipment and commodities, and the
payment of salaries for a nutrition program for expectant
mothers and their infants in the Chitradurga District.
Part E:     The provision of staff salaries, maintenance and commodities
that constitute the incremental operating costs of supplementing
the family planning program of India for the:


﻿12
(i)        operation of the Population Center;
(ii)       operation of Project Coordination office;
(iii)      operation of Project office;
(iv)       field personnel in intensive Districts;
(v)        operation of one mobile training team;
(vi)       Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife schools in the Project Area; and
(vii)       operation of sterilization ward in Urban maternity homes.
2.2   Uttar Pradesh
Part F:    The construction, equipping and furnishing of the following
facilities:
(i)        one Population Center in Lucknow including Project office
and about 5 staff residences;
(ii)       one Regional Family Planning Training Center in Lucknow
with hostel accommodation for 48 students;
(iii)      (a) eight Urban Maternity Homes in Lucknow, each with
about 30 beds and one Urban Family Welfare Center
attached to each; and (b) 6 Urban Family Welfare Centers
in Lucknow;
(iv)       eight Auxiliary   Nurse-Midwife  schools with  hostel
accommodation for 78 trainees each and eight units of
living quarters for about 10 students each, attached to
primary Health Centers;
(v)        five buildings for Program Administration, one in each
Project District except Lucknow Rural and one in
Lucknow City;
(vi)       five Sterilization Annexes with about 30 beds each, one
in each Project District except Lucknow City;


﻿13
(vii)       forty-one Primary Health Centers and forty-seven Family
Planning Annexes;
(viii)      ten Primary Health Center Maternity-Sterilization Wings,
with about 24 beds each, in the Rae Bareli and Saharanpur
Districts; and
(ix)        six hundred and fifty-four Sub-centers, consisting of clinics
and living quarters for Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives.
Part G:     The procurement of the following vehicles:
1   jeep for the City Family Planning Bureau;
30    jeeps for the Primary Health Centers;
5   jeeps for the Project office;
6   jeeps for the Population Center;
1   jeep for the Mobile Training Team;
23    ambulances for Urban Maternity Homes and Primary Health
Center maternity wings and for 5 Annexes of District Hospitals;
16    mini-buses for Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife schools;
2    mini-buses for the Population Center; and
4    mobile vans for service and motivation teams.
Part H:     The provision of technical assistance for training abroad of staff
of the Population Center and personnel working in program
administration, and for advisory services to the Population
Center.
Part I:     The procurement of equipment and commodities and the
payment of salaries for a nutrition program for expectant
mothers and their infants in one block in the Rae Bareli District.
Part J:     The provision of staff salaries, maintenance and commodities
that constitute the incremental operating costs of supplementing
the family planning program of India for the:
0


﻿14
(i)          operation of the Population Center;
(ii)         operation of the Project Coordination office;
(iii)        operation of Project office;
(iv)         field personnel in intensive Districts;
(v)          operation of one mobile training team;
(vi)         Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife schools in the Project Area; and
(vii)        operation of Sterilization wards in urban maternity homes.
2.3 India
Part K:      The provision of assistance in the field of population planning
to the institutions that will provide advisory services to the
Population Centers.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of Proceeds of the Swedish Grant
and the Association Credit equivalent in the
aggregate to approximately US$31,800,000 on
the basis of a rate of exchange between the
Swedish Kronor and the US Dollar* of 4.81:1
1.    The table below sets forth the categories of goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant and the Association Credit,
the allocation of the amounts of the said grant and credit to each category and
the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each category:
% of
Allocation (expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   US dollar equivalent)      to be Financed
Swedish       Association
Grant           Credit
I.   Civil works                                           100% of local
(excluding cost                                      expenditures
of sites and their
development**)
(a)  Mysore              1,760,000       3,520,000
(b)  Uttar
Pradesh            2,440,000       4,880,000
II.  Salaries of                                           100% of local
staff and main-                                      expenditures
tenance of
facilities and
vehicles
(a)  Mysore               935,000        1,870,000
(b)  Uttar                615,000        1,230,000
Pradesh
*    For purposes of this Schedule, the term "US Dollars" means dollars in the currency
of the United States of America.
**   For purposes of this Category, "site development" means such works as shall be
necessary to extend public utilities, access, and so on to the site and excludes all works
within the site.


﻿16
% of
Allocation (expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   US dollar equivalent)       to be Financed
Swedish        Association
Grant           Credit
III.  Vehicles                                             100% of total
expenditures
(a)  Mysore               150,000          300,000
(b)  Uttar
Pradesh              130,000         260,000
IV.  Equipment and                                         100% of total
Furniture                                             expenditures
(a)  Mysore               555,000        1,l 10,000
(b)  Uttar
Pradesh              725,000        1,450,000
V.   Technical Assis-                                      100% of total
tance                                                 expenditures
(a)  India                270,000          540,000
(b)  Mysore               290,000          580,000
(c)  Uttar
Pradesh              330,000         660,000
VI.  Parts D and I of                                      100% of total
the Project (i.e.,                                    expenditures
the nutrition com-
ponent, including
expenditures for
food, salaries,
vehicles and
other costs)
(a)  Mysore               630,000        1,260,000
(b)  Uttar
Pradesh               60,000         120,000


﻿17
% of
Allocation (expressed in     Expenditures
Category                  US dollar equivalent)     to be Financed
Swedish       Association
Grant          Credit
VII. Unallocated
(a)  Mysore              720,000       1,440,000
(b)  Uttar               990,000       1,980,000
Pradesh
TOTAL        10,600,000     21,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
India, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of India;
and
(b)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of expenditures for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency,
of any country other than India, and local expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of India or laws in effect
in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of either the Swedish
Grant nor the Association Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes.
4.    The US dollar equivalent of the Swedish Grant is shown on the basis of
a rate of exchange between the Swedish Kronor and the US dollar of 4.8:1. Should


﻿18
the market selling rate of the Swedish Kronor in terms of US dollars differ at
any time from the above-stated rate, any increase of the US dollar equivalent of
the Swedish Grant will be credited by the Association to the second column of
Category VII of the table in paragraph I above and any decrease in such equivalent
shall be charged against the second column of such Category.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Swedish Grant and the
Association Credit set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I
above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of said grant and credit then allocated to such Category and no longer
required  therefor will be  reallocated  by  the Association  by  increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of said grant and credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the fourth column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of India, to such Category from the unallocated amount of said grant and credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures;
(c)   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the fourth column of
the table on paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under
Category I or II shall increase and no proceeds of the Swedish Grant of the
Association Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association
may, by notice to India, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made; and
(d)  if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of said grant and credit and Sweden
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any of their
other rights, powers or remedies Linder the Swedish Credit Agreement and the
Association Credit Agreement, respectively, by notice to India, cancel such amount
of their respective grant and credit as in their respective reasonable opinion
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of said grant and credit.


﻿*                                   19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Vehicles shall be procured through regular commercial channels, after
obtaining several quotations from suppliers who offer assurances that they will
provide adequate service, including availability of spare parts.
2.    Furniture shall be procured through regular commercial channels in
accordance with the ordinary procedures of the respective State.
3.    Contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more shall be awarded on the basis of international competition wider procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972; provided that for the purpose of
evaluating bids, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with
the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of India for goods manufactured or processed to a
substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such territories;
any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)        the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)        the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of India which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (i) above, whichever shall be the lower; and


﻿20
(iii)       handling charges, inland freight, insurance and other costs
of delivery of such goods to the place of their use or
installation.
4.    Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 shall be awarded under the ordinary procedures of the respective State.
5.    Contr(azts for civil works shall be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding. To the extent it may be practicable to do so, such works shall be grouped
and tenders shall be invited for every group and each work separately, at the bidders'
option. If no approved contractor presents a bid for any such work, it shall be
carried out by departmental construction (known also as force account).
6.    Promptly after the execution of any contract for goods and services
hereinabove referred to, India shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Grant Account and the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the procedures hereinabove set forth or
referred to, promptly inform India and state the reasons for such determination.


