Report No. 737-YU                                                                                  COPY
Appraisal of an                                                                    FILEC
Agricultural Credit Project
Yugoslavia
May 12, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for offic:ial use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group doe,
not accept responsibility tor the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
US$ 1         = Dinars (Din) 17.0
Din 1         = US$ 0.0588
Din 1,000,000 = US$ 58,82h.53
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)          =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton             =  1j000 kilograms
1 metric ton              = 0.98 long ton
1 centimeter (cm)        =  0.39 inch
1 meter (m)              =  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)           =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) =  0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)              =  0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
BB    = Beogradska Banka (Belgrade)
IBT   =  Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP   =  Kosovska Banka Pristina
LB    =  Ljubljanska Banka (Ljubljana)
PBS   - Privredna Banka Sarajevo
PB(s) =  Participating Bank(s)
SAS   =  Social Accounting Service
SBS   =  Stopanska Banka Skopje
SFRY  =  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugosla#ia
UBZ   = Udruzena Banka Zagreb
VB    =  Bank of Vojvodina
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The
currency equivalents given above are those effective in ear3y
November 1974 and take into account the devaluation of October 29, 1974.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........................    i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...................................                     1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .........................                     1
III.    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT  ............................                      7
A.  General ......................                                    7
B.    The Banking System ..... ............                           8
C.    The Bank of Vojvodina  ....   ...........                       9
D.    Participating Banks  .....           ..................       11
TV.    THlE PROJECT                              .13
IV     TH*RJC   ....................................                        1
A.   Objectives  ................ ................                  13
B.    Description  ....0            ...............     ....        14
C.    Cost Estimates  ............ .. ..............                17
D.    Financing        ................. ................           18
E.    Procurement  .................. .............                 20
F.   Disbursements  .............        ..     ..............      20
G.    Environmental Impact  ......... .. ............               21
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .........................                    21
A.    Organization  .         .............................         21
B.    Policies and Procedures of Projects
Sublending  ......         .....................       23
C.    Project Monitoring  .......... ..            ...........      26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Yugoslavia in
September/October 1974 consisting of Messrs. Schertz, Heidhues, Lenot (IBRD)
and Fagerberg, Percival and Weinschenck (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                 Page No.
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....       ................    28
A.   Production and Markets and Prices .... .....    28
B.   Financial Benefits .....       ...................    29
C.   Economic Benefits .........................       30
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . .31
ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
2.   Agricultural Policies and Priorities
3.   Production and Marketing
4.   Investment Allocations
5.   Project Implementation Schedule
6.   Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements
7.   Financial and Institutional Aspects
8.   Projected Investments, Operating and Financial Results
Appendix 1     Social Sector Dairy Farm (400 Cow Unit)
2     Social Sector Cattle Fattening (400 head unit)
3     Social Sector Peas (100 ha)
4     Social Sector Tomatoes (80 ha)
5     Social Sector Irrigation Northern Region (500 ha)
6     Social Sector Irrigation Southern Region (500 ha)
7     Social Sector Drainage, Open-Closed Drains (750 ha)
8     Social Sector Drainage, Open Drains (750 ha)
9     Social Sector Land Development
10     Social Sector Cold Storage. (3,000 tons)
11     Social Sector Grain Drying (30,000 tons p.a.)
12     Social Sector Milk Collection Station (3,000 liters)
13     Private Sector Dairy (3 to 6 cow unit)
14     Private Sector Sheep Farm (50 to 80 head unit)
15     Private Sector Mixed Vegetables (1 ha)
16     Private Sector Plastic House (1 ha)
17     Private Sector Cherries (0.5 ha)
18     Private Sector Raspberries (0.5 ha)
19     Private Sector Vineyard (1 ha)
20     Private Sector Mechanization
21     Private Sector Land Development (5 hq)
9.   Project Cash Flow Statement
10. Economic Rate of Return of the Project
MAPS
IBRD 3774R
IBRD 11394



SUMIIARY AND COINCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project, the Bank's first agricultural credit project
covering all of Yugoslavia, aims to increase agricultural production by ex-
tending credit to social and private sector farms (in all Republics and Auto-
nomous Provinces) and to improve resource allocation by supporting institution-
building within the Bank of Vojvodina (VB) and the seven participating banks
(PBs).
ii.       Although agriculture's role has been declining relatively with rapid
industrialization, it still remains an important sector in Yugoslavia's econo-
mic development. Almost 40% of the population still lives in rural areas.
Agriculture accounts for 20% of the social product, constitutes roughly 15% -
20% of total commodity exports, with livestock, meat, fruits and vegetables
accounting for about two-thirds of agricultural exports, and employs about
44% of the labor force. The social product in agriculture increased at an
average rate of 3.2% per year during 1968-73, with the social sector output
increasing annuially at 5.2% and the private sector at 2.4%. Agricultural
production fluctuates heavily with weather conditions and its growth has not
kept pace with consumption growth. The major constraints to further agricul-
tural development in the social sector are the lack of capital for large in-
vestments needed in crop and livestock production and processing facilities.
The private sector's main constraints are lack of capital and credit facili-
ties for on-farm mechanization and purchase of better quality breeds and fer-
tilizers, and inadequate extension services for farmers not participating in
cooperative arrangements with the social sector. The Agricultural Development
Plan in recognizing this gives priority to large investments in the problem
areas and emphasizes cooperation between the social and private sectors. The
proposed nroject is part of the Plan's development program. It is in line
with the Bank's lending strategy for the agricultural sector in aiming at
production growth, and support for private farmers.
iii.      The project would increase production of maize, fodder crops, milk,
meat, vegetables and fruits, by about Din 1,140 million (US$67 million) per
aiauum, and expand agricultural processing capacity. It would support the
Government's objective of self-sufficiency in agricultural products and in-
crease of export production. The proposed loan would provide funds (a) to
about 380 social sector enterprises for investments in dairy farms, cattle
fattening, vegetable production, irrigation, drainage, land development, cold
storage, grain drying and milk collection facilities; (b) to about 10,200
private farmers for investments in dairy, sheep, vegetable and fruit produc-
tion, on-farm mechanization and land development.
iv.       The project would cost Din 2,125 million (US$125 million) of which
20% or Din 430 million (US$25 million) would be foreign exchange. The Bank
loan would finance US$50 million or 40% of total project cost. VB would be
the Borrower and serve as the apex institution in administering project im-
plementation.
v.        VB would channel the loan proceeds to a PB in each Republic and
Province, at 9.5% interest with a repayment period of 15 years including 4
years grace except in Vojvodina where VB would also implement the investment



- ii -
program. Social sector and private sector subborrowers would benefit from
loans up to 14 years paying 11% on the proceeds of the Bank loan and the
prevailing rates on the local funds.
vi.       Procurement would be done by the subborrowers under the supervision
of the VB and the PBs. The cold storage facilities and planting and harvest-
ing equipment for the social sector subprojects would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding according to the Bank's guidelines. Due to
limited availability domestically, about 1,400 in-calf heifers for the social
sector dairy farm subprojects would be procured from abroad through solicita-
tion of bids from suppliers in at least three countries. All other items
would be procured through existing commercial channels or in accordance with
local bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
vii.      The project would contribute to the production targets outlined in
the Agricultural Development Plan. -It would contribute to achieving self-
sufficiency in feed grains, milk and milk products, and increase exports of
meat, fruits and vegetables. While the project's incremental production would
largely be marketed domestically, total net foreign exchange earnings or savings
over the project's 20 year lifetime would amount to about US$200 million. The
project would generate about 6,000 new permanent employment opportunities and
reduce underemployment for about 10,000 farmers. In addition, about 8,700 jobs
would be created during the 3 year investment period. Almost 40% of the pro-
posed loan would directly or indirectly benefit an estimated 39,000 poorer
farmers. The overall economic rate of return of the project investments in-
cluding administrative and training expenses would be 27%, exclusive of pos-
sible benefits from improved resource allocation.
viii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million, for a term of 15 years,
including a grace period of 4 years.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has
requested a Bank loan for an agricultural credit project to increase agricul-
tural production through investments in livestock, fruit and vegetable growing,
on-farm mechanization, land reclamation and agricultural processing facilities.
The project would help finance subprojects in both the social and private sec-
tors in all Republics and Provinces. The proposed project aims to increase
the quantities of agricultural products primarily for supplying domestic de-
mand, to improve through credit the productivity and income of the rural popu-
lation, particularly private farmers and to strengthen the appraisal capacity
of the participating banks. The proposed project is in line with the Inter-
Republican Agreement for the Long Term Development of Agriculture (Agricultural
Development Plan). The investments to be financed under the project are in-
cluded in the priority list established and agreed upon in the Agricultural
Development Plan (Annex 2).
1.02      Although three previous IBRD loans included a small agricultural
component, the first integrated agricultural development project the Bank
assisted in was the 1973 Agricultural Industries Project in Macedonia (894-YU).
The proposed agricultural credit project would be the first one that the Bank
would participate in for the whole country. The idea of a project in the
agricultural sector came out of the work of IBRD economic missions in 1970
and 1971 and evolved through a continuing dialogue between the Yugoslav gov-
ernment and the Bank on the scope, content and structure of the project.
Preparation was done jointly by the Federal Committee for Agriculture and
the Bank of Vojvodina (VB), assisted by IBRD preparation missions in January
and July 1974.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
September/October 1974, consisting of Messrs. Schertz, Heidhues, Lenot (IBRD),
Fagerberg, Percival and Weinschenck (Consultants).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Geography and Climate
2.01      Of Yugoslavia's total area, about 58% is recorded as agricultural
land of which 70% is arable. The extremely fertile soils predominantly located
in Vojvodina and the northern regions of Croatia, represent only one-sixth of
the country's total area but contain nearly a third of the arable land and
produce more than half of the country's output of wheat and maize and over
three-quarters of its sugar beet. These regions are also suitable for inten-
sive livestock and vegetable production. A mixed farm pattern prevails in



- 2 -
the hills (land up to 500 meters in altitude) accounting for about 407 of
the total area and covering much of Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia. Important
lines of production are livestock raising and fruit growing and, to a lesser
degree, farm crops. The mountain region covering 44% of the country is gene-
rally unfavorable for crop production, but extensive upland pastures make
possible sheep and some cattle raising. Along the Adriatic coast, vineyards
and some olive and citrus groves are found whereas in southern Macedonia,
Mediterranean crops, such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
2.02      There are three basic climatic zones in Yugoslavia:  (i) the
Mediterranean, covering the Adriatic coastline and southern Macedonia, (ii)
the modified Atlantic, prevalent in Slovenia, Croatia and parts of Serbia,
and (iii) the Continental climatic zones most characteristic in Vojvodina.
Due to the topographic configuration of the courtry these climatic zones are
much modified by the terrain.
2.03      Agricultural production fluctuates heavily with varying weather con-
ditions. Irrigation and drainage are at a low level. Modern irrigation covers
only about 100,000 ha or 1% of the arable land as compared with an irrigation
potential of 3.1 million ha. The need for drainage is most pronounced in
Croatia, Slovenia and Montenegro where non-permeable subsoils prevent the full
development of the crop production potential. The area requiring drainage in
these Republics comprises 1.2 million ha.
Agriculture in the Economy
2.04      In Yugoslavia almost 40% of the population still lives in rural areas.
Agriculture accounts for 20% of the social product 1/, constitutes roughly
15-20% of total commodity exports, with livestock, meat, fruits and vegetables
accounting for about two-thirds of agricultural exports, and employs about 44%
of the labor force of Yugoslavia. The social product from agriculture in-
creased at an average rate of 3.2 percent per year during 1968-73, with the
social sector output increasing at about 5.2% per year and the private sector
at about 2.4%. Average per capita income in agriculture amounts to 42% of
that in the rest of the economy.
The Social and Private Sectors in Agriculture
2.05      One of the important characteristic features of Yugoslav agriculture
is the separate existence of two sectors viz, social and private with different
farm structures. The social sector includes (i) agro-industrial kombinats
(integrated factory farms); (ii) agricultural kombinats (both general agricul-
ture and livestock farms); and (iii) general agricultural cooperatives with
their own agricultural production as well as provision of services to indivi-
dual farmers; these organizations operate under the principles of social owner-
ship of the means of production and workers' self-management. During recent
1/   The social product concept differs from the GNP concept, as the former
excludes certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 3 -
years many kombinats have established cooperative units either by assimilation
of existing cooperatives or by formation of new units, in order to link part
of the production of individual farms to their processing industry. The social
sector in 1973 held 15% of the cultivated land, employed 6% of total agricul-
tural manpower, produced 33% of the agricultural product and 45% of the market
production. In 1973 there were 1,745 social sector holdings averaging 1,247
hectares of cultivated area per holding.
2.06      The social sector absorbed more than two-thirds of the gross fixed
investment in agriculture in the post war period. Investments were character-
ized by high and increasing capital intensity with the fixed capital per worker
increasing from 27 thousand dinars (1966 prices) in 1961 to over 96 thousand
dinars in 1970. At the same time the capital output ratio has increased from
an average of 2.86:1 during 1957-61 to 4.43:1 during 1968-70.
2.07      Tlhe pjivate sector comprises about 2.6 million small peasant holdings
of an average size of 3.9 ha.  It has 96% of the total agricultural population
and 85% of cultivated land. The size of private holdings is limited to the
equivalent of 10 ha of arable land. Productivity in the private sector is
significantly lower than in the social sector due to inferior land, seeds and
livestock breeds, lower fertilizer consumption, limited mechanization and lack
of extension :ervice.
2.08      The private and social sectors are for the most part complementary
rather than competitive. Labor-intensive crops, such as vegetables and tobacco,
are almost exclusively produced in the private sector, which also has 95% of
the cattle and 90% of the sheep. Cooperation between the social and private
sectors takes the form of trade in inputs and output, provision of services
by the social sector such as supply of fertilizers, harvesting, cultivations,
marketing and credit, and the contracting of joint production. The social
sector also provides most of the extension service available in Yugoslavia.
About 30% of all smallholders cooperate with the social sector in one way or
-nother, particularly in the more developed and fertile parts of Yugoslavia,
frequently because the food processing facilities in the social sector enter-
prises need inputs from neighboring private farmers. The very small farmers,
particularly in the underdeveloped mountainous regions, are least affected by
sucl- cooperation due to the small number and the specialization of social
sector enterprises.
Marketing (Annex 1, paras 22-25)
2.09      About half of the agricultural production is marlZeted through the
social sector enterprises; the rest is either consumed by the farmers or sold
on local markets. Some of the kombinats have their own arrangements for export
marketing, particularly in the case of processed fruits, vegetables and wine.
This has created numerous problems in export marketing, such as a lack of
quality and standardization control. In order to centralize and coordinate
export marketing, in particular of fruit and vegetables, the Federal Govern-
ment is establishing export agencies in major European markets.



2.10      Due to their smaller scale of production, private farmers rely on
the processing capabilities of kombinats and cooperatives for their industrial
crops. As they also lack marketing information and facilities, private farm-
ers market their produce primarily through cooperatives and kombinats, on
terms and under conditions generally satisfactory to them. The remainder of
their production, mainly vegetables, is sold in local markets where prices
may be higher than those paid by cooperatives and kombinats.
Research and Training
2.11      Research, education and provision of technical services are provided
by some 50 independent institutes for research, dealing with specialized agri-
cultural problems. The institutes are financed by the republics and the com-
iuiunes, and by payments for contract work done for enterprises. The univer-
sities are the training ground for managerial staff, and other technical
workers.  In addition there are some 200 educational centers where farm
workers are trained.
Taxation
2.12      Social sector agricultural enterprises pay income and turnover taxes
and various compulsory and statutory contributions, in much the same way as
industrial enterprises. However, agricultural investments and most inputs
are exempted from turnover taxation. The income tax of kombinats and coop-
eratives is in most Republics and Provinces proportional to their income. 1/
The tax rate varies by region ranging from 0.8% to 7.5%. Compulsory and sta-
tutory contributions include a surcharge for social insurance, allocations to
the collective consumption fund, 2/ business and reserve funds and payments
to the Skopje Earthquake Reconstruction Fund and the Fund for the Accelerated
Development of the Less Developed Regions. Private farmers pay a tax accord-
ing to the cadastral value of their agricultural land. The valuation is based
on the estimated productivity of the land, with each Republic and Province ap-
plying its own rules in establishing yields, production costs and prices to
be used in arriving at cadastral income. The valuation is updated in five
year intervals. In some Republics private farmers pay a special tax on in-
come from off-farm services; the tax rate is established by the commune.
Development Constraints
2.13      The main constraint to further development of the social sector
agriculture is the lack of capital for investments in crop and livestock pro-
duction and processing facilities. The social sector with its modern produc-
tion techniques and relatively high yields given the land resources available
and the climatic conditions, requires large investments in irrigation, drainage
1/   Only Serbia and Kosovo have instituted a progressive income tax system
with tax rates ranging between 0.5% and 13%.
2/   The collective consumption fund finances schools, scholarships and various
social facilities, such as vacation houses.



- 5 -
and land development to further increase productivity. Expanded grain and
fodder production would allow increased livestock production without unduly
raising imports of feed grains which are being restricted due to Yugoslavia's
shortage of foreign exchange.
2.14      The main contraints for further developrment of agriculture in the
private sector are lack of capital and credit facilities for the purchase of
better quality breeds, seeds, fertilizers and tractors and machinery, and
inadequate extension services for farmers not participating in cooperative
arrangements with the social sector.
DevelopmntStrategy and Priorities
2.15      After lengthy discussions, the Republics and Autonomous Provinces, in
July 1973, agreed on a common agricultural policy for 1973-1985, the "Inter-
republican Agreement on the Long-Term Development Policy for Agriculture" (the
Agricultural Development Plan). 1/ The Agricultural Development Plan's 2/
basic objective is to raise produ;ction to meet expected domestic needs and
allow for some exports. It emphasizes (a) the further development of the
social sector through modernization of production techniques, expansion of
processing facilities, better utilization of available resources and the ad-
justment of production to changes in demand; and (b) the development of pri-
vate farms primarily through cooperation with the social sector to ensure
further progress in the socialization of agriculture and rural areas. The
Plan's long-run growth objectives were revised in 1974 and are now defined
in the "Basic Principles of the Common Policy for Long-Term Development of
Yugoslavia until 1985" as 3.5% per annum agricultural production growth for
the period ending 1985, with the social sector growing at 7.5% and the private
sector at 2%. Emphasis is given to livestock production, which is projected
to increase at 5% per year as compared with 3% for plant production. Annual
investments during 1976-1985 are planned at about 6.3 billion dinars at 1974
prices, more than half of them in the private sector. Investment financing
would be provided by enterprises' and farmers' own contributions (40%), com-
mercial banks and state and federal funds (40%) and bilateral foreign credits,
IBRD credits and special subsidies (20%) (Annex 2, paras 15 - 18). Planned
increases in meat, fruits and early vegetables are geared to sales expecta-
tions abroad, particularly in the EEC countries.
2.16      To achieve its objectives the Plan focuses on price policies, in-
vestment policies, and cooperation between the social and private sectors.
Minimum prices for cereals will be established on the basis of average produc-
tion costs on social sector holdings, periodically adjusted along with rising
production costs. Minimum prices for livestock will be fixed in relation to
the corn price (Annex 2, para. 14). Special incentives are foreseen to
1/   The Agreement is frequently referred to as the "Green Plan" of Yugos-
lavia.
2/   The Plan is discussed in detail in Annex 2.



- 6 -
encourage mobilization of enterprises' own resources, such as income tax
rebates for agricultural investments, turnover tax exemptions and interest
rate subsidies for investment credits, reduction of import duties on imports
of agricultural machinery that is not produced in Yugoslavia, elimination of
the dinar deposit requirement 1/ with the National Bank for foreign credits
financing agricultural investments, and an increase in the foreign exchange
retention quota from depreciation charges. 2/  Expanded cooperation amo.zg pri-
vate farmers and between private farmers and social sector organizations would
be supported through provision of financing, and interest rate and tax poli-
cies. Cooperating private farmers may also join the health, social insurance
and pension schemes of social sector organizations.
2.17      The Agricultural Development Plan, for the first time in Yugoslavia's
postwar development, provides a comprehensive guideline for the development
of agriculture, encompassing both the social and the private sector. In re-
cognizing the potential of the private sector and explicitly supporting its
development, the Plan is a big step forward towards better resource utiliza-
tion and more even income distribution, although the impact of the multipli-
city of interest rates on the achievement of these objectives should be studied
carefully. However, in supporting almost exclusively those private farmers
who either forn a cooperative or cooperate in some way with the social sector,
the Plan will not reach a sizeable portion of the agricultural population,
notably the smaller farmers and those in the mountainous and infertile areas.
2.18      The Plan's projected growth rate for the social sector seems to be
too optimistic. The Plan apparently gives less than due weight to the fact
that the declining growth rates in the social sector since 1965/66 indicate
a change in the growth pattern; for the social sector with the land and tech-
nology available at present and with its high level of yields the average
annual production increase over a period of 12 years is unlikely to exceed 3%.
Higher growth rates seem to be possible in production lines with no or little
input of land, such as livestock. However, their production increase above
3% - 4% per year would require increasing imports of corn, which the Plan does
not foresee. The planned growth rates for the private sector seem achievable.
If realized, they would, however, imply a growing income discrepancy between
the private and social sectors since the labor force in the private sector is
unlikely to decrease much. The Plan's objectives of achieving better resource
utilization and increased productivity in the private sector, and enhanced
contract cooperation, which is concentrated on the larger farms for reasons
of economies of scale, would be supported by continued migration and resulting
increases in farm size which, however, are limited by the present regulations
on farm size.
1/   Enterprises and banks borrowing abroad are required to deposit in dinars
a certain percentage of the foreign credit with the National Bank without
earning interest.
2/   Enterprises are entitled to retain in foreign exchange 10% of the annual
depreciation charges.



- 7 -
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. General
3.01      Total Yugoslav agricultural investments in fixed assets in 1972
amounted to Din 3.1 billion ($182 million) of which an average of 34% was
financed by investors' own funds; banks provided an average of 41% and public
funds provided more than 50% in the less developed and about 13% in the more
developed Republics and Provinces.
3.02      Most Yugoslav enterprises have debt/equity ratios far higher than
those found in most capitalist countries. The "self management" system has
accentuated the problem of low retention of income as reserves, since most of
the income is distributed to the workers. Enterprises are heavily dependent
on credit and are not always able to meet their loan repayment obligations.
The banks have had to support enterprises in difficulty by rescheduling loans,
providing new loans and strengthening the enterprises' management.
3.03      Yugoslavia's interest rate policy should be seen in the political
and economic context of the country's socialist self-management system. Under
the present decentralized system, factor prices are beginning to play an
increasing role in resource allocation, although the trend toward higher and
more realistic interest rates is delayed by non-economic factors. The banking
structure wlhere the borrowers are at the same time the bank's major share-
holders (founders), has contributed to relatively low interest rates. Further-
nore, federal, state and communal funds are provided at low cost or used to
subsidize interest rates. The Yugoslavs consider low interest rates on in-
vestment credits an important policy instrument for development purposes,
especially in the less developed regions and in the agricultural sector. Also,
provisions for risk are low as they reflect the low occurrence of defaults
resulting from the particular relationship between banks and enterprises.
3.04      The interest rate structure is as follows:
Deposits (depending upon notice) 4 to 10%
Short-Term Loans                  11 to 12%
"Commercial" Long-Term Loans    10 to 12%
Investment Loans from the
Federal Fund for Development    4 to 6%
Investment Loans to Agriculture:
Social Sector                3 to 12%
Private Sector               3 to 6%



-8-
Rates on loans and deposits are fixed each year by the Assembly of Founders
of each bank and are substantially in the same range across the country.
3.05      The present interest rates imply low or negative real rates which
contribute to a permanent excess demand for investable resources and high
capital intensity, thus aggravating the unemployment or underemployment
problem, especially in agriculture and in the less developed regions. With
the price of capital low, its rationing is often done on non-economic grounds
especially at the inter-regional or inter-sectoral level, and often for reasons
that could not possibly be met by an allocation based on the price of capital
alone. At the enterprise level, however, interest rates seem to play a larger
role in resource allocation, particularly in influencing the choice of produc-
tion techniques. Finally, one result of the excess demand for capital has
been the above-mentioned inability of enterprises to meet financial obligations
on schedule. 1/ A study of interest rates in the agricultural sector will be
undertaken as part of the Project (paza. 5.17 and Annex 7G).
3.06      in general credit is provided to a private farmer through a social
sector organization with which he has a cooperation agreement (Annex 7, A).
This mechanism appears to work satisfactorily. Private farmers may also ob-
tain credit directly from the banks, usually on less favorable terms.
B. The Banking System
3.07      The Basic Economic Report 2/ explains in detail the development of
the Yugoslav Banking System since 1947, and the legal, financial and operation-
al framework within which banks operate is described in Annex 7B. Banks are
owned and controlled by the enterprises (founders) of the region where they
operate, who are also borrowers from the banks. The organization, ownership,
operations, functions and powers of the banks' management organs and branches
are governed by the statutes and the self-management agreements of each bank.
In addition to its statutes, each bank operates according to an annual
"Business Policy" which implies preparing, against the background of the Five-
Year Plan, a program statement about the Bank's main objectives, magnitude of
operations and interest rates structure. The system appears in general to work
satisfactorily, providing efficient coordination between the investment plans
of enterprises and availability of resources according to priorities as out-
lined by the Plan. The banks have to provide finance for investments according
to the Plan and in particular for agricultural investments according to the
priorities established by the Green Plan.
1/   See IBRD, The Economic Development of Yugoslavia, Report No. 194a-YU,
November 26, 1973, pp. 285-287.
2/   See IBRD, The Economic Development of Yugoslavia, Report No. 194a-YU,
November 26, 1973, pp. 242-275.



- 9 -
C.  The Bank of Vojvodina (Annex 7,
3.08      The Bank of Vojvodina (VB) has been agreed upon in the Agricultural
Development Plan as the borrower and apex 1/ bank for the project. An important
part of its current operations deals with the agricultural sector. VB has a
Head Office and 14 branches covering most of the Province of Vojvodina and two
offices outside Vojvodina, in Belgrade and Zagreb. VB, headed by a General
Manager and supported by a qualified senior staff, has about 1,000 staff. VB
is more fully described in Annex 7, C. VB staff involved in appraisal of in-
vestment loans appear capable, but lack experience in applying financial and
economic criteria in project appraisal. However, with adequate training under
the Project, VB's staff would be able to improve their appraisal techniques.
3.09      VB has a Business Policy and other "decisions" made by the Founders'
Assembly to guide its operations each year. A prominent feature is that VB's
or any branch off'ice's exposure to any client should not exceed 30% of its
total outstanding loans (actually no borrower has more than 10% of the total
outstanding portfo]io).
3.10      Investment proposals that enterprises submit to VB for financing are
appraised and approved in a branch office, or in the head office, depending on
the size or complexity of the loans. Several weaknesses are apparent in VB
appraisal reports, particularly insufficient technical appraisal, inadequate
market and economic analysis and, at times, unsatisfactory financial analysis.
3.11      VB operates as a mixed comercial/investment bank and is authorized
to perform foreign exchange transactions. Supervision of investments, with
regard to the financial position of the borrowers and to procurement arrange-
ments is satisfactory. Disbursement methods are sound.
3.12      In 1973, short-term loan commitments were 2.9 billion dinars of
which about one-third went to agriculture (Annex 7, Table 1). Short-term
loan portfolio as a percentage of total assets was about 30%. In 1973, long-
term loan commitments were 1.3 billion dinars of which about 28% went to
agriculture (Annex 7, Table 1). In 1973, VB's guarantees totalled Din 627
million of which Din 284 million were in foreign exchange (Annex 7, Table 2).
3.13      As a general policy the short-term resources are used almost exclu-
sively for short-term investments, although a prudent usage of short-term re-
sources for long-term investments, under the close supervision of the National
Bank, has been allowed since end 1971. Most short-term resources are deposits
and borrowings from the National Bank through rediscount facilities (Annex 7,
Table 5).
3.14      Of long-term loans to agriculture, 83% go to social sector enter-
prises for their own investments, 16% for relending to private farmers, and
less thaxn 1% directly to private farmers. Most of the loans to the social
sector are small (below 5 million dinars) and for a term of 5 to 10 years.
The average size of a long-term loan for agriculture is Din 3.3 million for
the social sector, Din 1.2 million for loans to the social sector relent to
1/   i.e. the primary bank, which will act as intermediary between the
Participating Banks and IBRD.



- 10 -
private farmers and Din 40,000 for loans directly to private farmers. VB
provides guarantees for suppliers' credits and other loans, but does not make
provision from its long-term resources against these contingent liabilities.
Guarantees amount to close to 50% of long-term loans but defaults have been
small (about 2%) and the risk does not appear significant.
3.15      The income statement of VB appears in Annex 7, Table 3.  VB like
any other Yugoslav bank, being owned by its founders-borrowers, does not
consider profitability an essential measure of its efficiency and rinancial
performance. Gross income less direct financial expenses in 1973 was about
1.7% of average total assets, which is low and reflects both the mixed nature
and the non-profit orientation of VB. Administrative expenses in 1973 were
about 0.6% of average total assets, which is also low and shows strict control
over the administrative budget. In 1973, dividends to the founders were 4.5%
of equity. 1/
3.16      The balance sheet of VB is in Annex 7, Table 4.  The current ratio
in 1973 was 0.82:1 which is low. However, VB complies with the National Bank
liquidity requirements (Annex 7B) and its liquidity position is adequate.
The long-term debt/equity ratio was 4.6:1 in 1973; it does not fully reflect
the financial cushion available to creditors, since part of the debt is owed
to the Province and the Federation who are unlikely to force liquidation in
case of financial crisis. Excluding these, the ratio becomes 3.1:1.
3.17      In accordance with Yugoslav accounting practice, financial statements
of banks are not audited but simply certified by the Federal Social Accounting
Services (SAS) (see para. 5.22). Therefore, an accurate evaluation of the
quality of VB's investment portfolio and the adequacy of its provisions is
difficult. At the end of 1973, provisions against potential losses amounted
to 2.2%, write offs to 0.12% (12 million dinars), and arrears to 0.9% of the
investment portfolio; all arrears were for less than one year (Annex 7, Table
6); reschedulings were negligible.
3.18      Along conventional lines, it is not possible, pending an audit, to
establish the credit-worthiness of VB as an independent organization. In the
Yugoslav environment, IBRD's normal criteria of credit-worthiness have a li-
mited meaning. Nevertheless, it is likely that VB will be in a position to
meet its obligations to the Bank. Its founders have unlimited liability
toward VB's obligations, it is closely integrated with the economy of Vojvo-
dina and its liquidation would be inconceivable. Its financial management has
been adequate with no significant losses, arrears have been low, and obliga-
tions have been met satisfactorilly. VB's loan portfolio,appears sound, and
adequate provisions for risk are made.
3.19      In Yugoslavia, investment planning is limited to one -ear.  Longer
term forecasts are, therefore, subject to margins of errors larger than usual.
1/   Including housing and public works fund.



- 11 -
Forecasts are at best rough and based on inadequate information and defective
assumptions. With this proviso, forecasts have been prepared for VB's opera-
tions (Annex 7, Table 7) and for its financial position (Annex 7, Table 9).
VB's financial position is expected to remain satisfactory and profits are
projected to increase to about 7.5% of equity.
D. The Participating Banks -/ (Annex 7,D)
3.20      Only one bank from each Republic and Autonomous Province would par-
ticipate under the project, and VB would function as a participating bank for
Vojvodina. The eight banks, which are among the most important in Yugoslavia,
account together for 70% to 75% of the total banking activity.
3.21      The organization and management bodies, including head and branch
offices, of the PBs are similar to that of VB. However, UBZ, the PB for
Croatia, is a "federation" of five independent banks which are jointly liable
for UBZ operations. In general, management and staff of the PBs in the more
developed regions appear more sophisticated and experienced, and their apprai-
sal procedures seem better. Most of the PBs are already known to the Bank as
borrowers or as disbursement agents.
3.22      The management and the staff of the banks appear generally exper-
ienced and capable. In each of the PBs, the unit responsible for handling
long-term loans to agriculture would be responsible for subloans under the
project; in each of these units there are several agronomists and agricul-
tural engineers in addition to economists, financial analysts and usually
lawyers. These staff seem to be in general competent, but not skilled in the
use of financial and economic criteria for project appraisal but training
exercises conducted by VB are underway and, together with the secondment to
the Project Unit of some staff of the PBs, they are expected to remedy existing
deLiciencies in project appraisal so that staff members of the PBs should be
able to adequately appraise and process subloans under the project without
undue delays.
3.23      Operating policies are similar among the PBs, although the protection
against the risk of excessive lending to an enterprise seems to be better in
the more developed regions. However, the financial situation of those banks
that are less well protected in this respect does not seem to be seriously
affected.
3.24      Appraisal procedures are similar in all banks and show the same
deficiencies as those identified in VB (para. 3.10). Despite these deficien-
cies, all PBs have adequate staff with the necessary background and experience
1/   More detailed data on the banks from the four less developed regions can
be found in Report 364a-YU: Appraisal of an Industrial Credit Project.



- 12
to be able to improve their appraisal techniques with the help of the training
efforts being undertaken (para. 5.09). Supervision of the subborrowers and
procurement and disbursement procedures appear satisfactory.
3.25      All PBs are mixed commercial/investment banks and all (except one
of the member banks of UBZ) are authorized to deal in foreign exchange opera-
tions. For the eight banks long-term loan commitments amounted to close to
30 billion dinars in 1973, of which 7% was for agriculture, but the proportion
of the long-term loans to agriculture varied from 1.3% for the Investment Bank
of Titograd (IBT) to 12% for Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) and 28% for VB
(Annex 7, Table 10). In 1972, these eight banks contributed 96% of all bank
investment credits in Yugoslavia for the agricultural sector.
3.26      Short-term resources are essentially used for short-term investments
but prudent usage for long-term investments is also allowed under the control
of the National Bank, and all the banks in the developed regions and the
Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) do so. Short-term loan portfolios account for
16% to 34% of total assets (Annex 7, Table 5).
3.27      The excess of commitments over available resources seems fairly high
and part of the long-term disbursements come from short-term resources (Annex
7, Table 5). The absolute resource gap is even higher since loan applications
may be rejected because of lack of resources. Guarantees are also provided
for suppliers' and other credits.
3.28      Gross incomes less direct financial expenses varied between 1.4% and
1.7% of average total assets in 1973 which is low and reflects both the mixed
nature and the non-profit orientation of the banks. Administrative expenses
in 1973 were between 0.3 and 0.7% of average total assets, which is also low
and shows strict control over the administrative budget. Net income in 1973
was 0.3% to 0.6% of average total assets (Annex 7, Table 3).
3.29      The current ratios were between 0.63:1 and 1.31:1.  Some of the
ratios are low but give no cause for concern since the banks comply with the
stringent liquidity requirements of the National Bank (Annex 7B). The long
term debt/equity ratios were between 3.4:1 and 11.5:1, but when excluding the
loans from socio-political entities, which is very important in the less de-
veloped regions, it is only 1.3:1 to 5.3:1, which is adequate (Annex 7, Table 4).
3.30      It is difficult to evaluate accurately the quality of the invest-
ment portfolios of the banks and the adequacy of their provisions, since data
is incomplete and not always entirely consistent. However, arrears reportedly
account for only 0.6% to 1.7% of the investment portfolios and are always co-
vered by funds for provisions against losses. There seems to be little re-
scheduling, and write offs and payment on guarantees appear negligible, but
a complete judgment on the banks' exposure to bad borrowers cannot be made
without an audit.
3.31      The PBs should be able to meet their repayment obligations to VB
and VB to IBRD for the following reasons:



- 13 -
(a)  they and the governments of their Republics and Provinces are
parties to agreements under the Agricultural Development Plan
that bind them to collaborate in this endeavor.
(b)  the enterprises which are founders of the banks have unlimited
liability toward the banks' obligations and creditors of the
banks have legal recourse to all assets of founders.
(c)  the banks are closely integrated with the economy of their
regions and liquidation is inconceivable.
(d)  the banks have qualified and experienced management and staff,
although some of the banks in the more developed region appear
stronger than the others. Their financial management has been
adequate with no significant losses, arrears have been manage-
able, obligations have been.met satisfactorily and long-term
debt/equity ratios, when excluding loans from socio-political
entities, are adequate.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project would provide loans during the three-year investment
period to support the long-term objectives of self-sufficiency in and in-
creased exports of agricultural products. It would make funds available
through VB to a PB in each Republic and Province for credit to social sector
enterprises as well as private farmers, for investments which are needed to
increase livestock, fruit and vegetable production, on-farm mechanization,
irrigation, drainage and land reclamation and agricultural processing facili-
ties.
4.02      The project would help alleviate major constraints to the further
development of agriculture (paras 2.13 and 2.14). It would form part of
Yugoslavia's Agricultural Development Plan and account for about 11% of the
planned investments during the project's three-year investment period. It
would help achieve the Plan's objectives to increase production, improve
product quality, stabilize agricultural development and raise productivity
and income, particularly on private farms. The investments in grain drying
and cold storage would also enable the Government to reduce price fluctuations
by expanding storage facilities. With its emphasis on irrigation and drain-
age, livestock production, fruits and vegetables, the project is expected to
result in significantly reduced crop fluctuations and increased production
of maize, fodder crops, milk, meat, vegetables and fruits. The components
financed by the project are priority investments in line with the Plan's
objectives.



- 14 -
B.   Description
Project Area
4.03      The components financed by the project would be located throughout
Yugoslavia taking into consideration the less developed Republics and .Irov-
inces as well as the less developed regions of the more developed Republics
and Provinces. While the private sector has been relatively neglected in
the past, it would receive, under the project, 43% of the.loan proceeds. Re-
gional and sectoral allocations were agreed upon by the Republics and Prov-
inces taking into account the agricultural development priorities, regional
income and sectoral distribution objectives and will be enforced by VB and
the PBs (Annex 4). The proposed IBRD loan allocation is summarized below:
Social Sector  Private Sector   Total    Total
---- US$ million ---------- -           -%-
Croatia                             6.1            4.1           10.2     20.4
Serbia                              3.8            5.8            9.6     19.2
Slovenia                            1.7            1.3            3.0      6.0
Vojvodina                          10.6            3.0           13.6     27.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina              1.7            3.7            5.4     10.8
Kosovo                              1.1            1.3            2.4      4.8
Macedonia                           3.3            1.8            5.1     10.2
Montenegro                          0.2            0.5            0.7      1.4
28.5 (57%)    21.5 (43%)    50.0    100.0
Livestock Production
4.04      Investments by social sector organizations and private farmers would
finance expansion of existing livestock production by either modification to
existing buildings or construction of new buildings, milking parlors, and other
physical facilities for milk production, cattle fattening, and sheep rearing.
Provision would be made for the purchasing of the basic herd as part of the
investment costs. Also, engineering services for design, construction assist-
ance and training would be included in social sector projects. Construction
of the livestock facilities for each investment would be phased over two years.
Production would be largely for the domestic market with some meat intended
for export.
4.05      Dairy Farms.  For the social sector, the project would provide for
the purchase of about 5,600 in-calf heifers and dairy cows, primarily Simmental
and Friesian breeds, of which about 1,400 head would be imported. Calves would
be sold at about four months of age to heifer rearing and calf fattening units.
Semen from Government artificial insemination centers would be used for breed-
ing. For the private sector, the project would provide for the purchase of
about 13,000 in-calf heifers and dairy cows. In addition about 5,500 cull
cows would be replaced annually with in-calf heifers to maintain full capacity.



- 15 -
4.06      Cattle Fattening Farms.  The project would provide for the construc-
tion of facilities in the social sector to feed at one time about 7,500 head
of young cattle. Feeder calves would be purchased at about 220 kg and after
feeding for about 200 days, they would be sold at 450 kg. Feed would consist
primarily of formulated concentrate mixtures. Straw would be used for bed-
ding. Building design would facilitate easy cleaning of pens with a tractor-
maounted scraper. Feeding troughs would be served with a side delivery trail-
er. Each year some 13,500 cattle would be fattened for slaughter.
4.07      Sheep Farms.  Subloans would be provided to private sector sheep
farmers to increase their flocks by purchasing breeding stock. Provisions
would include purchasing of about 55,000 ewes, construction of winter housing,
and feeding facilities, and pasture improvement to extend the grass season and
to increase hay production for winter feeding.
Vegetahle Production
4.08      Subloans would be provided to social sector enterprises to develop
about 4,200 ha for commercial vegetable production to supply mainly peas,
tomatoes, green beans and peppers for processing.  Included would be on-farm
irrigation faAilities and mechanization primarily for harvesting and plastic
green houses. Production of early peas would allow for a second crop such as
green beans or maize silage.
4.09      Subloans would be providled to private farmers for development of
about 1,000 ha for labor intensive mixed vegetable production and about 40 ha
of plastic green houses for early vegetable production. Included in the
project for mixed vegetable production would be pumps, pipelines, wells and
other equipakent to construct small-scale on-farm irrigation systems. Also,
included would be tubing, plastic for covering, and other items for construc-
tion of greern houses. Increased vegetable production would mainly supply the
domestic market. Some early and processed vegetables would be exported.
Fru.:t Production
4.10      Subloans would be provided in the project to private farmers for
on-farm development of about 400 ha of orchards, of about 30 ha of soft fruit
plantings and of about 850 ha of vineyards. Included would be such fruit
production for which there exists strong domestic or export demand, such as
raspberries, strawberries, cherries, peaches, apples, black currants and
grapes. Investments would include planting materials, fertilizers, labor,
land preparation, supports, wire and labor.
Land Reclamation
4.11      Subloans would be provided in the project to social sector enter-
s to finance about 7,600 ha of on-farm irrigation systems, about 8,400
ha of open and closed field drainage systems and about 9,800 ha of land dev-
elopment. Included would be provision for engineering services for design and
construction assistance. Construction of the land reclamation components of
the project would be phased over two years.



- 16 -
4.12      Social Sector Irrigation.  Investments under the project would be
for sprinkler irrigation systems. The system output design would depend on
the expected precipitation and the water demand during vegetative period
which varies significantly throughout the country. Provision would be in-
cluded for purchasing sprinkler lines, pumping facilities, main lines, pipe
installation, labor outlet valves, and miscellaneous avcillary equipment.
4.13      Social Sector Drainage.  Investments under the project would be for
sub-surface closed field drainage, sub-surface and surface field drainage,
pumping stations, land preparation, access roads, and outlet drains (main,
secondary, an.l tertiary). Included would be provisions for purchasing pipe,
pumps, and ancillary equipment and for construction of camber bedding, gravel
trench drains, and water removal drains.
4.14      Social Sector Land Development.  Investments under the project would
be for clearing land of brush, trees, and hedges, levelling land to eliminate
nonfunctionaL physical features, functional drainage, access roads, and con-
solidation of small parcels of land into large plots for efficient production.
Provisions would be included for machine services, surveying and pumping,
relocation of facilities, fertilizers, protective agents and miscellaneous
ancillary equipment.
4.15      Private Sector Land Development.  Subloans would be provided in the
project to private farmers to finance about 1,200 ha of land development.
Investments would be for clearing land, land levelling, drainage, on-farm
irrigation, access roads and consolidation of land. Included would be survey-
ing to establish boundaries, machine services, fertilizers, protective agents,
and consolidation of small parcels into larger plots to increase productivity
through better land utilization and mechanization. At full development, an-
nual income would about double to 23,000 Dinars per 5 ha farm.
Agricultural-Industries
4.16      Subloans would be provided to the social sector enterprises for the
construction of buildings and other physical facilities and the purchase of
equipment and machinery for grain drying facilities, cold storage plants
and milk collecting stations. Construction of the agro-industries components
of the project would be phased over two years.
4.17      Grain Drying Facilities.  In Yugoslavia to obt.ain maximum yields,
late maturing hybrid maizes have been introduced. During years with normal
rainfall, the kernel moisture content ranges between 28% to 32% and in wet
years, it reaches 34% or more. To avoid excessive losses in quality (feed
value) and quantity (up to 17%), the moisture content has to be reduced to
14% or below within 40 days of harvest. The project would reduce the present
shortag. of drying capacity in providing for the construction of about 320,000
tons of annual drying capacity which would be primarily for maize drying but
would also be used for other cereals, particularly in wet years. Subloans
would te provided for direct fired dryers with a drying capacity from 22 to
32 tonim per hour. The facilities would be located adjacent to grain elevators
with a minimum storage capacity of 20,000 tons. Included would be provisions



- 17 -
for the construction of access roads, for the purchase of fuel tanks, and
handling equipment. Provisions would also be made for engineering services
during construction and technical training. At full operation, about 32,000
tons of grain usually lost because of spoilage would be available to the eco-
non.y.
4.18      Cold Storage Facilities.  Subloans would be provided for the con-
struction of about 6,800 tons of cold storage capacity. Included would be
provisions for processing and freezing fresh vegetables and fruit. The
facilities would be single story structures divided into refrigerated chambers
for storing fruit and vegetables and non-refrigerated rooms for processing.
Included would be equipment for handling, cleaning, processing, packaging
and freezing products. Provision would also be included for engineering
services during design and construction.
4.19      Milk Collection Stations.  Investments would be provided in the
project for the construction of about 240 milk collection statiors each with
a minimum capacity of 2,000 liters. The building would be a simple single
story structure designed to house two insulated refrigerated milk cooling
tanks and ancillary equipment. Included would be filters, pumps, piping and
sampling equipment for collecting small quantities for butter fat and quality
testing. All equipment contacting milk would be constructed of stainless
steel or other acceptable materials meeting international sanitary standards.
On-Farm Mechanization
4.20      Mechanization and the use of fertilizers and protective agents
would be the most effective measures to improve the productivity of the
private sector. Subloans would be provided in the project to private farmers
to finance about 400 on-farm investments in mechanization as illustrated in
the model Annex 8, Appendix 20. Included would be provisions to purchase
about 400 tractors and implements such as trailers, ploughs and rollers.
Other larger implements would be jointly procured with farmers who own or
also buy tractors. Farmers with tractors would cultivate their own farms
and sell machine services to neighboring farmers who do not own tractors.
Investments would be phased over a two year implementation period.
C. Cost Estimates
4.21      Total project cost is estimated in Din 2,125 million (US$125 million)
of which 20% or Din 430 million (US$25 million) would be foreign exchange.
Details of investment costs are shown in Annex 8 and are summarized below.



- 18 -
Percent
Din Million                US$'000         Foreign
Investment Items          Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign Total Exchange
Social Sector
Livestock Production   238.7         75.9   314.6  14,041   4,461 18,502   24
Vegetable Production    22.8         76.3    99.1   1,342   4,490  5,832   77
Land Reclamation         203.3       48.1   251.4  11.957   2,831 14,788   19
Agro-Industries          103.4       68.3   171.7   6,084   4,018 10,102   40
Subtotal            568.2      268.6   836.8  33,424  15,800 49,224
Private Sector
Livestock Production   361.9         25.7   387.6  21,286   1,514 22,800    7
Vegetable Production    39.4         10.5    49.9   2,318       619  2,937   21
Fruit Production          64.8       12.2    77.0   3,812       719  4,531   16
On-farm Mechanization   71.9         11.3    83.2   4,228       667  4,895   14
Land Development           8.7        0.8      9.5     510       46    556    9
Subtotal            546.7       60.5   607.2  32,154   3,565 35,719
Contingency Allowances
Physical (5%)             55.8       16.5    72.3   3,281       968  4,249   23
Price (40%)              524.5       84.2   608.7  30,854   4,954 35,808   14
Subtotal            580.3      100.7   681.0  34,135   5,922 40,057
Total Project Costs   1,695.2        429.8 2,25.0   99,713  25,287 125,000  20
4.22       Cost estimates used in the report are based on November 1974 costs.
A 5% physical contingency and an average 40% price contingency (Annex 5) have
been included in the project costs to provide for investment design varia-
tions anid to meet expected inflation in foreign and local costs during the
implementation period.
D. Financing
4.23      The financing plan for the project is shown below:



- 19 -
Sub-          Participating
borrower              Banks       IBRD   Total
------------------Din million----------------
Social Sector
Livestock Production              141.8                141.8      189.0   472.6
Vegetables Production              39.8                 39.8       53.0   132.6
Land Reclamation /1               109.9                109.9      146.6   366.4
Agro-Industries                     72.8                72.8       97.2   242.8
364.3               364.3      485.8 1,214.4
Percent of Total                    30                  30         40      100
Private Sector
Livestock Production               115.1               230.2      230.2   575.5
Vegetables Production               14.5                29.0       29.0    72.5
Fruit Production                   23.7                 47.5       47.5   118.7
Cn-fa-L. echaiiization             26.0                 52.0       52.0   130.0
Land Development                     2.8                 5.5        5.5    13.8
182.1              364.2       364.2   910.5
Percent of Total                   20                  40          40      100
Total Project Cost                546.4                728.6      850.0 2,125.0
--US$ million----------------
Total Project Cost                 32.1                42.9        50.0   125.0
Percent of Total                   26                   34         40      100
/i   Includes irrigation, drainage and land development.
4.24      The IBRD loan of US$50 million provides for the minimum participa-
tion necessary to establish Bank leverage in achieving the Project's important
policy and institutional objectives and to have meaningful financial par-
ticipations in each PB and each subsector. It would be made to VB for 15
years, including four years of grace, for on-lending to sub-borrowers through
a PB in each Republic and Province (paras 5.06-5.08). The project cash flow
(Annex 9) shows that sub-borrowers' repayments would generate sufficient in-
flow to repay the IBRD loan within 15 years and to cover a reasonable degree
of slippage In repayment. For the social sector, 30% of the total project
cost would be contributed by sub-borrowers and 30% by the PBs. For the pri-
vate sector, 20% of the total project cost would be contributed by sub-
borrowers and 40% from the PBs. The remaining 40% would be provided by the
proposed IBRD loan. Agreement was obtained during negotiations on the afore-
said conditions.



- 20 -
E. Procurement
International Procurement
4.25      International competitive bidding according to IBRD Guidelines, and
under the supervision of VB, would be applied by the sub-borrowers for the
procurement of cold storage facilities and the planting and harvesting equip-
ment for the social sector vegetable subprojects (US$7 million). The cold
storage facilities would be procured under a turnkey contract since the
processing units need to be integrated with the freezer and chill storage
units. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15% margin of preference or
the actual level of import duty, whichever is less, in bid comparisons.
4.26      About 1,400 in-calf heifers (US$2 million) for the social sector
dairy farm component would be procured from abroad through solicitation of
bids from suppliers from at least three countries. VB would maintain a con-
solidated summary for each procurement of imported heifers showing the bids
received and selected together with a copy of the contract awarded to the
successful bidder.
Local Procurement
4.27      The facilities for dairy and cattle fattening farms, milk collection
stations and grain drying (US$36 million) are simple structures, widely dis-
persed throughout the country, and consist mainly of civil works. They would
be most suitable for local contractors and would be procured under local
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.28      Items for on-farm development (US$54 million) would not be suitable
for bulk procurement and international competitive bidding because of phasing
of subprojects and the dispersion of investors throughout the country. Sub-
borrowers would purchase equipment, fertilizers, seeds, livestock, small
quantities of construction materials, pipe and planting materials directly
through existing commercial channels which include both domestic and interna-
tional suppliers or through local bidding procedures already determined to be
satisfactory to the Bank. Machinery and equipment dealers maintain adequate
supplies of spare parts, provide servicing and repair facilities and are suit-
ably competitive. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the pro-
curement procedures contained in paragraphs 4.25 through 4.28 would be followed.
F. Disbursements
4.29      IBRD disbursements would take about 4 years although the entire
loan is expected to be committed by the end of year 2. The annual phasing
of investments and the forecast of quarterly disbursements are shown in Annex



- 21 -
6. Disbursement of the IBRD loan would be made against 57% of the social
sector and 50% of the private sector subloan amounts disbursed by VB to the
PBs (para 4.24). Disbursement requests for the social sector investments
would be supported by full documentation. For subloans to the private sector,
the Bank would disburse against certificates of expenditure. The same proce-
dures would apply for disbursement by VB to the PBs. Supporting documents
and contracts-would be retained by the PBs and would be available for review
by VB and IBRD during supervision.
G. Environmental Impact
4.30      The project is not expected to have significant adverse environmental
impact on the project area.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
The Federal Coordination Committee
5.01      A committee to coordinate agricultural investments in Yugoslavia,
but with no actual "line" responsibilities, has been established under the
Agricultural Development Plan. Its members are representatives of the
Secretariats for Agriculture of the Republics and Autonomous Provinces and
of the Federal Government with the Deputy Chairman of the Federal Committee
for Agriculture (i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture) as chairman. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Committee would continue to per-
form its coordination role with respect to the project including the respons-
ibility for policy questions and reallocation of proceeds of the loan between
Republics and Provinces and sectors.
The Bank of Vojvodina
5.02      A summary appraisal of VB, the borrower and apex bank for the proj-
ect, is in paras 3.08 to 3.19. VB's organization, financial condition and
operating policies are adequate for an efficient implementation of the proj-
ect.
5.03      A project unit has been established in VB under the name of "Project
Operations Department". Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Department would continue to operate in VB, that it would be adequately
staffed and responsible for all subloans under the project. VB would submit
to the Bank for its approval an organizational and staff reinforcement pro-
gram (Annex 7F) and would staff the Department accordingly.



- 22 -
5.04      As the borrower and apex bank, VB would be responsible for the
repayment of the proposed loan and the proper execution of the project. It
would ensure that the policies and procedures of sublending under the project,
as outlined below, would be followed by the PBs and that the arrangements for
procurement, disbursement, audit and monitoring referred to in paras 4.25-
4.29 and 5.24 - 5.26 would be enforced.
5.05      It is estimated that the cost of operations of the Project Opera-
tions Department would be about Din 10 million over the three year project
implementation period. VB's risk on its loans to the PBs is negligible and
VB is not expected to make a profit on its loans to the PBs. To help meet
the cost of its operations in administering the project, VB would receive one
percentage point in interest rate spread on IBRD funds onlent. Therefore, VB's
lending rate on its loans to PBs out of the proceeds of the Bank loan would
be 9.5%.
The Participating Banks
5.06      One bank from each Republic and Province (listed in Annex 7 D, para
35) would participate under the project and VB would function as a PB for the
Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. A summary appraisal of the PBs is given in
paras 3.20 to 3.31. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB
would be informed and, in turn, would inform the Bank, prior to any substan-
tial changes in the financial conditions and the operating policies of the
PBs, that would affect the implementation of the project.
5.07      A subsidiary loan agreement will be entered between each PB and VB
covering the policies and procedures of sublending under the project, project
related staffing of the PBs, and the arrangements for procurement, disbursement,
audit and monitoring. Signing of the seven agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, between VB and the PBs would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan. VB, in its function as PB for Vojvodina, would follow the same sub-
lending, procurement, disbursement, audit and monitoring procedures. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
5.08      The PBs, including VB, would be directly responsible for the execu-
tion of the project in their respective Republic or Province. A PB will nor-
mally finance, under the project, only subprojects in its respective Republic
or Province. Each PB would receive from VB a subloan out of the proceeds of
the Bank loan according to its allocation (para 4.03). The PBs would present
appropriate documentation for reimbursement of Bank portion of the subloans
to VB for review and submission to the Bank for disbursement. The grace and
repayment period would be such that each repayment date of the suibloan to VB
would be three months before the corresponding repayment date by VB to the
Bank. The interest rate to the PBs would be 9.5% and the commitment fee 0.75%.
These provisions would be covered under the subsidiary loan agreements.



- 23 -
Training
5.09      A seminar in appraisal criteria and techniques used in Bank agricul-
ture credit projects was held in January 1975 to train VB and PB staff and,
at VB's request, a Bank staff member participated. The Bank will assist fur-
ther in training VB staff once the staff reinforcement program has been
designed and agreed. Training of the staff of the PBs will be the responsi-
bility of the staff of the Project Operations Department.
B. Policies and Procedures of Projects Sublending
praisal Criteria of Subprojects
5.10      In appraising subprojects in the social sector, VB and the PBs
would ensure that:
(a) subprojects are technically feasibile, financially viable,
commercially sound and economically justified, and markets
and processing facilities for their incremental production
are available;
(b) subprojects will generate sufficient cash flow to cover
debt service, legal claims, compulsory allocations to
the enterprise's funds and reinvestment needs and achieve
adequate financial rates of return, with a particular
justification required if the financial rate of return
is below 12%;
(c) enterprises borrowing for subprojects have a satisfactory
financial structure, especially an adequate debt/equity
ratio of normally less than 3:1. Exceptions may be allowed
(based on the financial and economic merit of the subproject)
provided that the enterprise enters into an agreement with a
bank to increase its equity over a suitable period of time
to not less than 25% of its total capitalization;
(d) appropriate consideration is given to the need for
introduction of capital-intensive, automated technology
as opposed to more labor intensive methods and to the con-
sequences of such a choice on the investment costs of the
subprojects.
5.11      Subprojects in the private sector would normally be submitted to
the PBs by social sector enterprises, kombinats or cooperatives which having
aggregated investment proposals of several private farmers with whom they have
entered into a cooperation agreement would borrow on their behalf. However,
private farmers may also submit directly investment proposals as subprojects
to a PB. In appraising subprojects in the private sector, VB and the PBs
would satisfy themselves that:



- 24 -
(a)  subprojects are technically feasible, financially viable,
commercially sound and economically justified, and markets
and processing facilities for their incremental production
are available;
(b)  subprojects would generate sufficient cash flow to cover
debt service, legal claims and needs for reinvestment;
(c)  adequate and continuing technical assistance, and suitable
market outlets at fair and reasonable prices are available
to the private farmers;
(d)  in the case of lending through social sector organizations,
the cooperation agreements are adequate.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procedures as outlined in
paras 5.10 and 5.11 would be followed by VB and the PBs in appraising sub-
projects.
The Subloans
5.12      The social sector sub-borrowers would provide a minimum of 30% of
investment costs and private sector sub-borrowers would provide a minimum of
20% of investment costs. The contribution of private farmers can be in the
form of their own labor or of building materials. In no case would the non-
cash contribution exceed 20% of investment costs. For this purpose, the
private farmer's own family's labor would be evaluated by using the standard
number of working hours and the wage rate for unskilled agricultural workers
in the social sector in the same area. The private farmer's building mater-
ials would be valued at their replacement costs.
5.13      The PBs would provide a maximum of 30% of investment costs in
the case of social sector sub-borrowers and a maximum of 40% of investment
costs in the case of private sector sub-borrowers. The remaining 40% of
investment costs would come from the Bank loan and would be disbursed through
VB to PBs except for Vojvodina. Prior to disbursing the Bank Loan, VB would
assure the availability of counterpart funds and sub-borrowers' contribution
for each specific subproject. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
5.14      Seasonal credit would be provided by the PBs or the respective
commercial banks of sub-borrowers where appropriate. Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that VB would, prior to requesting disbursement of
the Bank Loan, be satisfied that the necessary amount of seasonal credit would
be available for each subproject.
Lending Terms
5.15      The terms of subloans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investments (Annex 8). Assurances were obtained



- 25 -
during negotiations that the grace and repayment periods on the subloans will
not exceed the following:
Maximum Grace             Maximum Total
Period                     Term
(years)
Social Sector
Livestock Production                     2                          14
Vegetable Production                     2                           7
Land Reclamation                         4                          11
Agro-Industries                          3                          12
Private Sector
Livestock Production                     2                          12
Vegetable Production                     2                           9
Fruit Production                         5                          10
Mechanization                            2                          10
Land Development                         2                          10
Interest Rates
5.16      As detailed in Chapter 3, interest rates for investments in agricul-
ture vary between 3% and 6% for the private sector and 3% and 12% for the
social sector, depending upon the Republic or Province, the source of funds
and the type of investment and they are often revised every year. Most of
the counterpart funds under the project would be provided by the Federal,
Republican and Provincial budgets or entrusted to the PBs by producers'
associations and similar organizations.
5.17      The interest rates under the Project will be:
-    on the portion of a subloan financed out of the proceeds of
the Bank loan 11%;
-    on the portion of a subloan financed out of a local funds, the
rate prevailing at that time, in that location, for that type
of investment.
These rates are expected to result in equivalent blend rates between 7.5% and
11.5% for the social sector (average 9.75%) and between 7% and 8.5% for the
private sector (average 7.75%). The rate structure would provide the PBs
with a spread of 1.5% on the proceeds of the Bank loan and usually at least
0.5% on the local funds portion of the subloans. In those cases where the
spreads would not be sufficient to cover their costs of administering the
Project, the PBs would meet their deficits from their overall net revenues.
As part of the project, a study would be carried out by VB to analyze the pre-
sent interest rate structure for the agricultural sector and to determine
whether uniform interest rates throughout the country for all types of invest-
ments would be effective and feasible. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the study would be carried out within one year of loan signing
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Annex 7G).



- 26 -
5.18      Assurances were obtained that the introduction of foreign exchange
risk arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effective-
ness. It is expected that the social sector sub-borrowers would carry the
full foreign exchange risk with respect to the portion of subloans financed
out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for their own investments. Other suit-
able arrangements would be made for the foreign exchange risk on subloans
made to private farmers. It is also expected that VB and the PBs would be
protected against the exchange risk on the foreign exchange surplus accruing
to them from subloan repayments occurring earlier than amortization payments
of the Bank loan.
Appraisal Procedures of Subprojects
5.19      Investment proposals would be submitted by enterprises to the PB
in their Republic or Province. Several investment proposals in the private
sector would usually be aggregated and submitted by a social sector organiza-
tion. Private farmers may also submit directly a proposal to a PB. The PBs
would appraise the subprojects according to the criteria set forth in paras
5.10 and 5.11 and the PBs would register each subproject with VB.
5.20      The following procedures would be applied:
(a)  the PBs would approve all subprojects having an investment
cost below US$1 million;
(b)  VB would review the appraisal of and approve all subprojects
having an investment cost between US$1 million and US$1.5
million;
(c)  the Bank would review the appraisal of and approve all subproj-
ects having an investment cost above US$1.5 million.
Apart from the subprojects costing more than US$1.5 million, the Bank would
also review and approve the appraisal of the first social as well as private
sector subprojects of each PB and of VB and all cattle fattening subprojects
(para 6.02). Thus, the Bank would review about 50 subprojects totalling $38
million or 30% of total project cost. The approval of the first subprojects
will be a prerequisite for disbursement through each PB (and VB). Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that these procedures would be followed.
C. Project Monitoring
Audit
5.21      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB and all
PBs would each maintain a separate account for the project. This would in-
clude disbursements made under the project for all subloans.



- 27 -
5.22      The accounts of Yugoslav banks are examined, once a year, by the
Social Accounting Service (SAS), which verifies the cash balances and conducts
a limited review of the financial statements for mathematical accuracy and
comparisons with previous years. A more detailed field examination is con-
ducted at irregular intervals. The main purpose of the SAS examination is
to ensure that financial transactions are in compliance with the law. The
methods used, while meeting the standards applicable in Yugoslavia, do not
meet generally accepted international auditing standards. The absence of
a proper audit of the banks should not be considered critical to the consid-
eration of their creditworthiness; VB is considered a suitable borrower for
the proposed loan, and all the PBs appear capable of carrying out the project
efficiently. However, uncertainties about the quality of the banks' portfolios
must be recognized as looming large in evaluating their financial soundess.
In the future, audits undertaken according to international standards should
become an essential part of the information system available to the banks'
management and founders, to the Government, to the Bank, and to prospective
foreign lenders.
5.23      In January 1974 the SAS initiated, with the assistance of Coopers
and Lybrand, a UK auditing firm, a program for training some of its staff in
modern auditing. This training successfully oriented a pioneer group of SAS
staff towards internationally accepted audit practice. With Coopers and
Lybrand's assistance, SAS is now preparing a second phase in which trainees
from the first phase will carry on with their practical training and set up
a training program in Yugoslavia for other SAS staff.
5.24      Auditing the Yugoslav banks poses special problems because of their
size and diversity of operations. Audit work on the Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
a Borrower under the Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1013-YU), began in 1974.
During 1975 this work will be continued and work on the Stopanska Banka Skopje,
a borrower under the Macedonia Agroindustries Project (Loan 894-YU) and the
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1012-YU) is expected to begin. In view of
the limited numbers of trained SAS staff, audit work on the two banks will
coilcentrate on management control and procedures and matters specifically
related to IBRD projects. Precise details are still under discussion between
the Bank and the SAS. If the SAS is unable to carry out satisfactory audits
alone, they will seek, through an interim association, the assistance of an
internationally reputable auditing firm, acceptable to the Bank. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that VB's accounts would be audited under
the same arrangements as under the Industrial Credit Project starting with
the 1975 accounts, and it is expected that the accounts of the other PBs (in-
cluding the five member banks of UBZ) would also be audited in accordance with
a schedule to be agreed upon after discussions with the SAS and the auditing
firm training the SAS staff. The subsidiary loan agreement would provide
that during the transition period, i.e., before satisfactory audits can be
performed, the PBs would submit through VB to the Bank, SAS certified finan-
cial statements acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. The subsidiary loan agreement would also provide that, when
sntisfactory audits can be performed, financial statements audited in accord-
ance with international standard would be submitted by the PBs through VB to
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 28 -
Supervision
5.25      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB and the PBs
would ensure that adequate technical and financial supervision of on-going
subprojects would be carried out. The social sector sub-borrowers and the
social sector enterprises borrowing on behalf of private farmers, would
submit to the respective PB, SAS-certified financial statements within six
months from the end of each fiscal year. The basic supervision would be done
by the PBs under the general responsibility of VB.
Reporting Requirements
5.26      A project monitoring system would be designed by VB to provide the
Bank with quarterly and annual reports covering the progress of the project,
sublending operations under the project, financial data pertaining to the
project, the financial statements of VB and the PBs and general data on agri-
culture and economic policy affecting the implementation of the project. VB
would also be responsible for evaluating the project's benefits. During ne-
gotiations, assurances were obtained to this effect.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production, Markets and Prices
Production
6.01      The following table shows the incremental annual production of
main crops generated by the project (Annex 8):
Annual Production on Project Farms
Crop                                 Pre-Project   Full Development  Incremental
'---------------'000 Tons--------------
Maize                                     31.3            84.6            53.3
Sugar Beets                               11.1            96.9            85.0
Alfalfa                                    7.3            36.7            29.4
Maize Silage                              55.0           200.0           145.0
Beef Meat                                   -              4.4             4.4
Tomatoes                                    -             89.2           89.2
Peas and Beans                              -             25.3           25.3
Fresh Vegetables                          56.7            82.4           25.7
Fruits                                      -             13.8            13.8
Milk (in million liters)                  24.0           117.0           93.0
The total value of annual incremental production at full development is esti-
mated at Din 1,135 million (US$66.8 million) at November 1974 prices.



- 29 -
Markets (Annex 3, paras. 19-34)
6.02      The incremental production derived from the project would serve the
following purposes: additional maize, alfalfa and silage production would
result in a much needed increase in livestock feed supplies and help reduce
imports of feed grains. Increased sugar beet production would help utilize
full capacity of the existing processing facilities and reduce net imports of
sugar. Incremental vegetable production would be needed predominantly to
supply increasing domestic demand while the additional fruit production would
equally help promote exports as well as satisfy rising domestic needs. The
increase in milk production would allow the extremely low level of per capita
consumption to rise (Annex 3, Table 14). Increased beef meat production would
supply both the domestic and foreign, particularly Western European markets.
With the strong demand for project commodities largely in the domestic markets,
the incremental production at full development (less than 1% of production for
maize, 3% of production for sugar beets, 2% of production for alfalfa and
silage, 10% of production for vegetables, 1% of production for fruits, 3% of
production for milk and 1.4% of production for beef meat) would not pose any
particular marketing problem, except possibly for the cattle fattening component
(Annex 3, paras 27-31). The export beef market at this time appears uncertain
and difficult to project. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
VB that the appraisals of cattle fattening subprojects would include a detail-
ed export market analysis and that these subprojects be submitted to the Bank
for approval, irrespective of the free limit arrangements outlined in para
5.20.
Prices
6.03      In Yugoslavia, farmgate prices as well as farm input prices with
few exceptions have, in practice, been determined by demand and supply. The
Government's efforts to contain increasing prices have failed largely because
of the inadequate price control mechanisms (Annex 2, para 14). The incre-
mental production from the project, which would result in substituting for
or reducing the growth of imports, or supplying otherwise not satisfied needs,
would not induce a reduction in producer prices since the expected demand in-
crease is likely to exceed the additional production. Thus rising farmgate
prices due to excess demand are expected, but they would increase less than
without the project.
B. Financial Benefits
6.04      The financial results for typical investment models under the
project are given in Annex 8. The calculations are based on November 1974
Yugoslav prices for both inputs and outputs, which are generally in line with
international prices. The financial rates of return of the models vary be-
tween 14% and 32% (Annex 8). The sensitivity analysis yields the following:
if investment costs were raised by 10% the financial rates of return would
vary between 12% and 30%; an increase in operating expenses by 10% would
result in financial rates of return between 0% and 30%; and if revenues were
to drop by 10% the rates would range from -3% to 27%.



- 30 -
6.05      Some investments are extremely sensitive to an increase in operating
costs or decrease in revenues, notably those in cattle fattening. As men-
ioned above (para 6.02), these subprojects would be reviewed by the Bank to
ensure their financial viability. The financial rates of return of the other
investment models have remained satisfactory under sensitivity testing, as it
can be expected that inflationary price rises would affect both costs and
benefits and tend to maintain the present relationship between them. In any
case subprojects yielding financial rates of return of less than 12% would
not be approved by VB and the PBs (para. 5.10).
6.06      About 380 social sector enterprises and 10,200 private sector farm-
ers, of which about 3170 (or 31%) in the less developed areas, would benefit
directly from the project. The average annual income of social sector enter-
prises would increase from Din 214,000 to Din 737,000 (or from US$14,120 to
US$43,350), affecting the income of more than 3,000 families. In the private
sector, a farmer's family's average annual income would increase from Din
10,250 to Din 27,450 (or from US$600 to US$1,600). In addition, the project
would, through the investments in milk collection stations and cold storage
facilities, benefit indirectly another 46,400 small farms by raising their
incomes by an average of about Din 1,700 a year.
C. Economic Benefits
Foreign Exchange Earnings
6.07      The project in concentrating on the domestic market would, over its
20 year lifetime, generate only about $115 million in foreign exchange through
increased exports. Taking into account foreign exchange savings through
import substitution (mainly feed grains and milk products) and direct and in-
direct import components of investments and operating costs, the total net
foreign exchange earnings or savings, over the project's 20 year lifetime,
are estimated to amount to the order of US$200 million (at 1974 prices).
Employment
6.08      The project would generate substantial employment opportunities.
An estimated 2,650 incremental man-years would be generated from investments
in the social and about 3,500 man-years in the private sector. For an addi-
tional 10,200 farmers, the project would reduce underemployment and provide
means to use more fully their free capacities in buildings.
6.09      About 8,700 additional man-years would be generated during the 3
year investment period: 6,700 man-years in the social sector for building
and construction work and engineering services, and 2,000 man-years in the
private sector for expanding buildings, establishing fruit trees and vine-
yards, and digging wells. The additional investments and consumption of in-
puts, such as fertilizer, pesticides, fuel, via their backward linkages, and
the increased production via forward linkages, would generate sizeable in-
direct employment opportunities, which were not quantified.



- 31 -
Income Distribution
6.10      A significant share of the project's financing would benefit the
poorer farmers. About US$19 million or 38% of the proposed Bank loan would
directly and indirectly benefit an estimated 38,800 (of which about 26% in
less developed regions) small farmers or more than two-thirds of all private
farmers affected by the project. They have incomes significantly below those
of unskilled workers in the social sector.
Resource Allocation
6.11      The project in involving eight major banks would bring about sub-
stantial benefits from improved resource allocation, particularly in the
less developed regions. The staff of VB and the PBs, which would be trained
under this project, is likely to handle most of the credit financed invest-
ments in the agricultural sector. Their experience gained under the project
could result in significant savings of investment resources in the agricul-
tural sector.
Rate of Return
6.12      The economy is expected to realize a return of 27% from total proj-
ect investments, including physical contingencies (Annex 10). Although the
administrative and training costs are included in the project costs, their
benefits cannot be quantified. Hired labor has been valued at prevailing
wage rates. Family labor has not been costed as operating expenses because
there are unused labor capacities on private farms. Wheat, maize, feed
grains and beef were projected at world market price levels. Other com-
modities were valued at November 1974 farmgate prices, adjusted for import
duties, taxes and subsidies. A sensitivity analysis was applied to test the
project against changes in investment costs, operating expenses and produc-
tion results. By increasing investment costs and operating expenses alter-
rnatively by 10%, the rate of return would drop to 24% and 21%, respectively.
By decreasing the value of the benefits by 10%, the overall return would drop
to 18% (Annex 10).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following princi-
pal issues:
The Borrower will
(i) adequately staff and continue to operate its "Project Operations
Department" as its unit responsible for all subloans under the
project (para 5.03);
(ii) follow the procedures concerning subsidiary loan agreements
as outlined in para 5.07;



- 32 -
(iii) ensure that subprojects be appraised, reviewed and approved
according to the procedures and criteria as outlined in paras
5.10, 5.11, 5.19 and 5.20.
7.02      Conditions for making the proposed loan effective are the signing
of the seven agreements between VB and the PBs, satisfactory to the Bank, and
covering items as outlined in para 5.08 and the introduction of a foreign
exchange risk protection scheme satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.18).
7.03      Subject to the condition of effectiveness described above, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million, equivalent, for
a term of 15 years including a four year grace period.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
The Agricultural Sector
Geography and Climate
1.        The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is located between
latitudes 400 and 470 north and longitudes 13 and 230 east. As a federal
state it consists of six Socialist Republics: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia,
Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia Proper and Slovenia: and two Autonomous Prov-
inces attached to Serbia: Vojvodina and Kosovo. It borders Italy on the
west, Austria, Hungary and Romania on the north, and Bulgaria, Greece and
Albania on the east. The southern border runs along Greece, Albania and
the Adriatic coast.
2.        Of Yugoslavia's total territory of 255,804 km2 about 58% is recorded
as agricultural land while the rest is taken up by forests, rivers and lakes.
Of the agricultural land about 70% is arable and the rest permanent pastures.
The extremely fertile soils predominantly located in Vojvodina and the north-
ern regions of Croatia represent only one-sixth of the country's total area
but contain nearly a third of the arable land and produce more than half of
the country's output of wheat and maize and over three-quarters of its sugar
beet. This region is also suitable for intensive livestock and vegetable
production. In the hills (land up to 500 meters in altitude) accounting for
about 40% of the total area and covering much of Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia
a mixed farm pattern prevails. Important lines of nroduction are livestock
raising and fruit growing and, to a lesser degree, farm crops. The mountain
region covering 44% of the country is generally unfavorable for crop produc-
tion, but extensive upland pastures make possible sheen and some cattle rais-
ing.  At the Adriatic coast, vineyards and some olive and citrus groves are
found, whereas in southern Macedonia sub-tropical crops, such as tobacco,
cotton and rice are grown.
3.        In the valleys and plains alluvial soils are predominant with
Cernozem prevailing in most of Vojvodina and the northeastern part of Croatia.
Delluvial and terra rossa soils are common to the hills. Soil erosion is a
major problem on steep, barren hills and mountain slopes. Cultivated soils
are usually well supplied with organic matter and potash, but poor in phos-
phates. The pH ranges in most areas from acid to neutral; slightly alkaline
soils are located in the northern part of the country.
4.        There are three basic climatic zones in Yugoslavia:  (i) the Mediter-
ranean, (ii) the modified Atlantic, and (iii) the Continental climatic zones.
Due to the topographic configuration of the country these zonal climates are



ANNEX 1
Page 2
much modified by the terrain. The Mediterranean climate of the Adriatic
coast has mild winters and hot summer (annual average temperature 15C),
with relatively heavy rainfall (e.g. Dubrovnik 1,500 mm), characteristically
in the autumn and winter months while the summers are dry. The modified
Atlantic climate of Slovenia and northwestern Croatia is the coldest in the
country (annual average 9C), with heavy rainfall (e.g. Ljubljana 1,546 mm),
which is lower in winter, and relatively even through the other sec.sons. The
Continental climate is most characteristic of Vojvodina. Here, too, the
winters are very cold, but the summers are quite hot. Precipitation in this
area is among the lowest in the country (e.g. Vrsac 682 mm), but is charac-
teristically heaviest in late spring and early summer, which allows high
plant utilization in the period of greatest growth. A temperate continental
climate exists between the Continental and Mediterranean zones, covering
essentially the whole of the Dinaric System, which has the lowest annual
average temperatures, with cold winters and cool summers, and heavy precipi-
tation (e.g. Kolasin 2,670 mm) concentrated in the autumn and winter. Another
transitional zone also exists, which includes most of  'acedonia, where the
Continental influence is basic and the 'Tediterranean secondary.
Agriculture in the Economy
4.        In Yugoslavia almost 407 of the population still lives in rural
areas. Agriculture accounts for 20% of the social product, constitutes
roughly 15-20% of total commodity exports and emplovs about 44% of the
labor force of Yugoslavia. Though its role has been declining relatively
with rapid industrialization it still remains a sector of basic importance
in the overall development of the economy. Yugoslav agricultural policy 1/
has passed through various phases. After the abandonment of collectivisa-
tion in 1953, the government concentrated on developing agricultural marketed
production through a modern social sector incorporating the earlier state
farms and agricultural cooperatives which replaced the collective farms as
the main basis for providing the marketed output for a rapidly growing non-
agricultural population. In social sector agriculture heavv investments
were made to modernize and mechanize production, to increase the use of
chemical inputs and to expand irrigation. The private sector was relatively
neglected bv Government policy which placed emphasis on voluntary cooperation
between peasant farmers and the social sector agriculture as the major device
for increasing production in the private sector. The social product in agri-
culture increased at an average rate of 3.2% per year during 1968-73, with
the social sector output increasing at about 5.2% per year and the private
sector at about 2.4% per year. 2/
1/   For a discussion of agricultural development policies see Annex 2.
2/   For a discussion of agricultural production and marketing see Annex 3.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Organization of the Agricultural Sector
5.        One of the important characteristic features of Yugoslav agricul-
ture is the senarate existence of two sectors i.e. social and private with
different farm structures. The social sector has its origin in the postwar
collectivization policy, and received further impetus by the Agrarian Reform
of 1953, which limited the size of private or individual holding to 10 hec-
tares of cultivable land or 25 hectares of forest land, and brought 276,000
hectares of additional land under the social sector. Since then, the land
resources of the social sector have almost doubled due to reclamation, pur-
chase and lease from private holders. The social sector in 1973 held 15%
of the cultivated land, employed 6% of total agricultural manpower, produced
33% of the agricultural product and 45% of the market production. In 1973
there were 1,745 social sector holdings averaging 1,247 hectares of culti-
vated area per holding.
Table 1: Output/- of Major Items in Social and Private Holdings
(Share of total output in %)
Average            Average             Average
1963/65            1969/72             1972/73
Social  Private   Social  Private   Social  Private
Wheat                 27.0    73.0       36.4    63.6        37.4      62.6
Maize                 14.0    86.0       17.7    81.3        16.8      83.2
Sugarbeet            64.9    35.1        57.9    42.1        69.4      30.6
Sunflower            50.6    49.4        66.0    34.0        52.3      47.7
Fruit                  4.0    96.0        4.6    95.4        n.a.      n.a.
Meat                  25.8    74.2       31.8    68.2        53.2      46.8
Milk                  16.4    83.6       14.5    85.5        11.3      88.7
Fggs                   4.0    96.0       37.3    62.7        n.a.      n.a.
/1   Fggs by count, milk in litres, and other products in tons.
Source:  Statisticki Godisnjak. Jugoslavije.
It is evident that while the share of the social sector has generally in-
creased, the private sector continues to maintain its importance in maize,
frult and milk products (Table 1). However, the private sector's role in
market production is much less than in total production. For example only
26% of marketed milk supply comes from private farms as against 89% of total
milk sunply. This illustrates the imnortance of social agriculture in the
generation of a marketed surplus to fuel industrial growth.
7.        The main reason for the increasing share of the social sector in
:tgricultuiral production is that it absorbed more than two-thirds of the
gross fixed investment in agriculture in the post war period.  The relative



ANNEX 1
Page 4
neglect of the private sector meant that almost all the investment on the
peasant farms were financed from own savings. Despite heavy investment in
social sector agriculture, the share of agriculture in total investment has
declined since the early sixties, a fact which is being redressed in the
Agricultural Development Plan (Annex 2). This investment pattern is re-
flected in an increasing capital intensity in social sector agriculture,
with the fixed capital per worker increasing from 27,000 dinars (1966 prices)
in 1961 to over 96,000 dinars in 1970. At the same time the capital output
ratio has increased from an average of 2.86:1 during 1957-61 to 4.43:1 during
1968-70.
8.        Other reasons for the more rapid growth of the social sector in
agriculture were (i) differences in the "intellectual input" - highlighted
by a 54% increase of university trained workers in the social sector between
1964-70 while the total number of permanent workers decreased by 28% in the
same time; and (ii) differences in the production potential of both sectors -
caused by the relatively greater importance of the social sector in the fer-
tile plains in the developed regions, and in the fertile valleys of the
mountain areas, especially in Macedonia and Kosovo. The rapid growth
of land and labor productivity in the social sector has resulted in a grow-
ing gap between the two sectors. Average yields per hectare in crop produc-
tion are almost twice as high in the social sector, while milk yields per
cow are more than four times higher. The relative differences appear to
be independent of the quality of land in wheat and maize production. In
milk production, the disparity is mainly due to differences in the volume
and quality of fodder produced, but also to the quality of the breeding
stock.
The Social Sector
9.        The social sector includes (i) agro-industrial kombinats (inte-
grated factory farms); (ii) agricultural estates (both general agriculture
and livestock farms); and (iii) general agricultural cooperatives with their
own agricultural production as well as provision of services to individual
farmers.  All these organizations operate under the principles of social
ownership of the means of production and workers' self-management. During
recent years many kombinats have established cooperative units either by
assimilation of existing cooperatives or by formation of new units, in order
to link part of the production of individual farms to their processing
industry.
10.       A notable feature of the development in the social sector since
the mid-1960's is the decrease in the total number of holdings by about 30%,
and the number of cooperatives by almost 50%. The decrease in the number
of holdings is the result of a process of mergers among kombinats and the
integration of cooperatives into kombinats. For, at the same time the
volume of production increased by about 28%, land input increased by 10%
while the level of investment remained practically unchanged. There was,
however, a significant decline in the labor input amounting to about 30%.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
11.       The main constraint to further development of the social sector
agriculture is the lack of capital for investments in crop and livestock
production and processing facilities. The social sector with its modern
production techniques and relatively high yields given the available land
resources and the climatic conditions, requires large investments in irri-
gation, drainage and land development to further increase production. Ex-
panded grain and fodder production would allow an increase in livestock pro-
duction without unduly raising imports of feed grains which are being re-
stricted due to Yugoslavia's shortage of foreign exchange.  The Agricultural
Development Plan recognizes the bottlenecks and emphasizes the priority for
investments in these areas (Annex 2, paras 8-11).
Table 2: Yields in the Social and Private Sector, 1973
(qu/ha)
Social        Private
Country        Sector          Sector
Average      Enterprises       Farms
Wheat                                   28.0            42.3            23.3
Maize                                   34.7            52.8            32.5
Sugarbeet                              387.0           393.0           384.0
Sunflower seed                          19.3            19.4            19.2
Milk (litres per cow)                1,235.0         4,000.0         1,124.0
Source: Statisticki Godisnjak, Jugoslavije.
Private Sector
12.       Despite the decline in agricultural population, increased frag-
mentation and subdivision of holdings was a basic feature of small holdings
now numbering about 2.6 million. The Agrarian law, which limits the maximum
size of private holdings to 10 hectares of farm land or 25 hectares of wood-
land, has been changed recently with respect to the mountainous regions.
The number of persons that may be employed on a wage basis by private farmers
is also legally restricted, to a maximum of generally two persons.  Though
renting and leasing within the private sector is not restricted by law, it
exists only in rare instances.
13.       The average yields on private farms, although still significantly
lower than those in social sector enterprises (Table 2), for some of the
principal crops have risen sharply. For example, the average wheat yield
rose from 14 metric quintal/hectare in 1960-61 to 25 in 1971, maize in-
creased from 19.5 to 28 metric quintallhectare, of sugar beet from 140 to
285 metric quintal/hectare and of sunflower from 13 to 17 metric quintal/
hectare. In livestock breeding, the results were more moderate. Milk
yield per cow increased from 1040 to 1056 litres a year and the average
live weight per cow from 600 to 730 kilograms during the decade.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
14.       In almost all respects, private agriculture in the underdeveloped
regions is much behind private agriculture in developed areas. Livestock
froduction and breeding play a relatively greater part than crop growing
in the private sector for natural reasons. Modern methods of production
have not reached these areas: for instance they only have 15-20% of the
tractors as compared to 30% of the total cultivated area in individual hold-
ings. There are considerable regional differences in yields, which may vary
up to 100% for cereals between the less favored areas of Kosovo and Montenegro
and the most favored areas of Vojvodina and Croatia. In the breeding sector,
there are also very great disparities: in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in Montenegro
the average weight of slaughtered cattle is about half the national average.
The yields of dairy cows is also very low in all these areas compared with
Slovenia and Vojvodina.
15.       The main constraints for further development of agriculture in
the private sector are (a) lack of capital, (b) lack of credit facilities,
for the purchase of better quality breeds and seeds, fertilizers and tractors
and machinery, and (c) lack of extension services. In the Agricultural De-
velopment Plan an attempt has been made to overcome these bottlenecks by
providing capital and credit to the private sector and by sunporting coop-
eration between the social and private sectors. Moreover, at the republic
level, a number of measures have been taken to improve the existing condi-
tion of the private sector. Extension service centers have been established
and special funds are being set up extending loans only to private sector
farmers, particularly for the improvement of livestock. However, while
these facilities exist in a few republics they are inadequate. The progress
of helping private agriculture through social cooperatives has tended to
slow down (see para. 16). Furthermore, such cooperation is restricted to
areas surrounding the social sector agricultural organizations. For example
there are only few social sector agricultural enterprises in Kosovo and,
consequently, cooperation between the private and social sector in agricul-
ture is relatively less developed.
Cooperation Between the Private and Social Sectors
16.       Cooperation between the social and private sectors takes the form
of trade in inputs and output, provision of services by the social sector
such as supply of fertilizers, harvesting, cultivation, marketing and
credit, 1/ and the contracting of joint production. About 30% of all small
holders cooperate with the social sector in one way or another while 15-20%
participate in contract cooperation. Contract cooperation, in particular,
is mainly concentrated in more developed regions and with relatively larger
peasant farmers. The very small farmers, particularly in the underdeveloped
mountainous regions are least affected by such cooperation. There has been
recently a trend towards reduced cooperation. The reasons are said to derive
from difficulties related to the instability of the market and increased pro-
duction costs. Since the adoption of the "Green Plan" increasing emphasis
1/   Credit discussed in Annex 7.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
has been given to the strengthening of relations with the private sector in
agriculture. Closer links would help to increase the prosperity of peasant
farmers, thus preventing depopulation, particularly of the mountain areas,
and to exploit the private sector's apparent advantage in livestock produc-
tion.
17.       One important inter-relation between the private sector agriculture,
and the social sector in general (as distinct from agriculture), exists in
the supply of labor. An increasing number of peasants while living on the
farm are engaged in part-time non-agricultural employment, and this is an
important source of income for peasant households.
18.       Research, education and provision of technical services are provided
by some 50 independent institutes for research, dealing with specialized agri-
cultural problems. In addition, there are facilities for agriculture and
veterinary science at various universities. The institutes are financed by
the republics and the communes, and by payments for contract work done for
enterprises. The universities are the training ground for managerial staff,
and other technical workers. In addition there are some 200 educational
centers where farm workers are trained.
Foreign Trade
19.       The trade balance in agricultural goods has been mostly positive
during the 1960's, though strongly fluctuating, denending on variations of
yields of grain and maize mainly. Following a substantial surplus in 1970
the agricultural trade balance turned negative in 1971, mainly due to rising
imports of cereals. Exceptionally favorable export market conditions in 1971
for beef led to a small surplus in 1972. Rapidly rising imports of concen-
trates and other feed stuffs resulted in a large deficit in 1973 (Table 3).
20.       Leading export items of the agricultural sector are meat and live
animals, fruits and vegetables, beverages and tobacco, accounting for about
80a  of total agricultural exports.  Agricultural imports consist largely of
products not produced in Yugoslavia, such as tropical and subtropical fruits,
coffee, tea, cocoa, rice and increasingly protein concentrates.
21.       Food Processin.  One additional stimulus to the growth in postwar
agriculture was the development of the domestic food processing industry which
before the war had been very poorly developed. Apart from its beneficial
effects on exports (in 1970 processed foodstuffs constituted close to 30%
of all agriculture based exports), the growth in food processing capacity
led to an expanded production of high value industrial crops and vegetables
at the expense of cereals. In 1960 the share of industrial crops and vege-
tables in total agricultural production were 3.6% and 7.7% respectively.
In 1970 these shares had grown to 5.2% and 11.0%.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Marketing and Prices
22.       In Yugoslavia there are first the "organized" social market for
agricultural products with "authorized purchases and sales", and then the
"informal" private markets based on peasant market places. The value of
authorized purchases amounts to 40-50% of total agricultural product at
present; the rest is either consumed by the agricultural population or sold
on the local markets. There is large regional variation in the relative
importance of authorized market production. In the less developed regions
of Kosovo and Montenegro it is only 10-25% of the total but its share in
Slovenia is more than 55%. Likewise, in the case of industrial crops such
as tobacco, sugarbeet, sunflower, market production is more than 70% of
total production while in the case of vegetables it is only 10%.
23.       Three types of pricing arrangements are used in Yugoslavia accord-
ing to the technical difficulties in -the implementation of price policy on
various markets. These are:
(a) Guaranteed minimum prices - applied for all important agri-
cultural goods (cereals, meat, wool) for which the imple-
mentation of a price guarantee is technically possible;
(b) Minimum prices, without guarantee of the government -
prescribed mainly for those agricultural goods which need
processing such as milk, sugar beet and other industrial
crops; and
(c) Prices free from intervention, for goods which are marketed
mainly on peasant markets or are highly petishable, so that
effective price control is practically impossible.
24.       The effectiveness of the minimum price system has not yet been
seriously tested; so far the guaranteed minimum prices were adjusted only
with considerable delay in accordance with changes in prices of production
inputs. Nor were actual prices prevented from increasing above the tolerance
limit of 10% above the minimum prices. The effectiveness of the price system
should therefore not be overestimated. It can smooth short-run price fluc-
tuations, at best, and then only if sufficient money and storage capacity
are provided. It is not able, however, to guarantee "production cost"
prices, or other desired price levels, if these do not correspond to market
prices.
25.       The price relationship between livestock products (with the excep-
tion of milk) and grain - especially maize - are at present more favorable
than in most of those European countries with an efficient livestock industry.
This situation has already stimulated an increase in production of pigs and
broilers, such that the continuing investment climate may create capacities
which will exceed the possibilities of the domestic market.



APPRAISAL OF                            ANNEX 1
ThOle 3
AN AG.lCU,cUFaL  XL3IT POJEUT                      r     9
JG'OSLAV IA
TraI!~ .i3aarice  A'AgrI -uItiural P-roducts  l9?0-174
(in :illl i;n dinars)
1970       1971        1972        1973
Total AgricTilturaL Products
Exports                               5,376       5,491       6,678       7,851
Imports                               3,854       _,862       5 964       9,003
Tra4e Balance -                       1,522      -  371           4      -1,152
of which:
Live Animals and Meat
Exports                            2,703       3,003       4,192       4,273
Imports                              288         169         221         999
Trade Balance                      2,1         -2,737      3,971       37
DairIy Products and Eggs
Exports                               35          46          24          48
Imports                              112         157         182         197
Trade Balance                       -77           i        - 1         - 149
CerealA and Cereal Preparations
Exports                              355         187         137       1,062
Imports                              310       1 704       1,247         970
Trade Balance                         45       1,         -1,110          92
Fruits and Vegetables
Exports                              721         848         999         946
Imports                              686         746         759       1,035
Trade Balance                                    102         240
Sugar and Sugar Preparation
Export                                111           9         10          16
Imports                                65        391       1 014       1,852
Trade Balance                         146      -36                    -1,36-
Feeding Stuff for Animals
Exports                               208         58          42          39
Imports                              621         726         596       1,803
Trade Balance                        613        767y                  -1,764
Beverages and Tobacco
Exports                              993       1,050         983       1,024
Imports                              110         113         119         140
Trade Balance                        6157        937         U67       --gm
Oils and Fats
Exports                               38          72          19          47
Imports                              332         826         715         367
Trade Balance                      - 2914       -7-        - 69        - 320
Trade 3aioncc = '         -- I
Source:  Statistics of Foreign Trade of the &aR YUGOSLAVIA
* 75



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YTTGOSLAVIA
Agricultural Policies and Priorities
Institutional Framework for Agricultural Policy
1.        At the federal level, coordination of agricultural policies is
achieved by the Federal Chamber of Economy, and the Federal Committee for
Agriculture. The Federal Chamber has specialist committees to achieve co-
ordination of research, finance, etc., and the Committee coordinates the
plans and programs and legislation of the Republics. Responsibility for agri-
cultural policy implementation lies with the Republic Secretariats for Agri-
culture. Due to decentralized decision making, all functions associated with
policy implementation, rest with autonomous self-governing organizations, and
the Secretariats only retain indirect control via fund disbursements.
2.        Production plans are implemented by kombinats and cooperatives or
in some cases by special enterprises. Even though they account for only about
30 percent of total farm land the kombinats are an effective medium for policy
implementation regarding production and investments, since they have a virtual
monopoly of technicians and management skills.
3.        Policy coordination is achieved bv the Agriculture Division of the
Chamber of Economy since all social enterprises, banks, etc., are its members.
The Republic Chamber examines all legislation to be placed before the Assemibly,
forecasts markets, provides economic services and scrutinizes plans of enter-
prises. At the local level, the commune is the link between the community
and enterprises, and seeks to reconcile the various interests of the enter-
prises and the community, such as pressing for funds for enterprise develop-
ment, determining and regulating retail margins on basic farm produce, etc.
The commune and the republic also have some influence on the avaiJability of
credit to enterprises.
4.        Difficulties of orderly coordination, lack of enterprise response
to overall guidelines, and the non-participation of the peasant farmers in
the decision making process, are the major shortcomings of the institutional
system.
The Agricultural Development Plan
5.        The disanpointing performance of the agricultural sector in the
second half of the 196n's with annual production growth dropping below 2 per-
cent, and the growing awareness of the need to utilize more efficiently the
resources in the private sector and to slow down migration into urban areas,
initiated discussions on an integrated policy apDroach for the agricultural



ANNEX 2
Page 2
sector. In July 1973, the Republics and Autonomous Provinces agreed on a
common agricultural policy for the period up to 1985. This agreement, called
the Interrepublican Agreement on the Long-Term Development Policy for Agri-
culture (Agricultural Development Plan 1/) reflects the growing concern among
political and economic authorities that the country's increasing needs for food
can only be met with the cooperation of the private farmers.
6.        The Agricultural Development Plan's basic objective is to raise
production to meet expected domestic needs and allow for some exports. The
three sections of the Agricultural Development Plan include:
(i) foundations of the long-term development policy for agriculture;
(ii) measures for the implementation of the development policy for
agriculture during 1973-1975; and
(iii)  agreement on investments and financing during 1973-1975, and
on incentive policies for the private sector.
7.        The Plan emphasizes as the basic principles of the long-term agri-
cultural policy:
(a) the further development of the social sector through
modernization of production techniques, expansion of
processing facilities, better utilization of available
resources and the adjustment of production to changes in
demand; and
(b) the development of private farms primarily through co-
operation with the social sector, to ensure further progress
in the socialization of agriculture and rural areas.
The Plan's long run growth objectives were revised in June 1974 and are now
3.5 percent per annum agricultural production growth for the period 1971-1985,
with the social sector expected to grow at 7.5 percent and the private sector
at 2 percent. Emphasis is given to livestock production which is projected to
increase at 5 percent per year as compared with 3 percent for plant production.
S.        Within the field of livestock production the Plan gives high priority
to cattle breeding in both the private and social sectors of primarily milk and
meat producing breeds. The production of beef meat is largely intended for
exports, and, accordingly, qualitv improvement is emphasized; milk and milk
products are expected to be consumed domestically. The Plan stresses the need
for technical and organizational improvements in the collection and processing
of milk, particularly of the private sector. Emphasis is also given to in-
creased sheen production in the mountainous and generally poor areas of the
country.
1/   The Agreement is frequently referred to as the "Green Plan" of Yugoslavia.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        The production of wheat and rye is projected to develop in line with
domestic need, including the formation and maintenance of an adequate level
of reserves. Production, now at a level of about 5 million tons per year,
is foreseen to remain at this level for the rest of the decade and to decrease
to about 4 million tons by 1985. Production of feed grains, particularly
corn, is planned to increase to about 13 million tons per year by 1985, to
meet the growing needs of dairy and meat production. Concommitantly, a
significant expansion in storage and drying facilities will become necessary.
10.       The production of vegetables, fruits and grapes is planned to in-
crease in line with rising living standards at home and increasing export
possibilities. The Mediterranean climate zone, where winter and early spring
vegetables can be grown, should provide the bulk for exports.
11.       The Plan considers the development of efficient food processing in-
dustries essential for the stability of agricultural development and the im-
provement of product quality. With rising standards of living domestic demand
is expected to shift increasingly to higher quality and processed products.
12.       The dominant role in the future development of agriculture is
intended to rest with the social sector kombinats and co-operatives. They
are foreseen to take the lead in increasing production and enhancing modern-
ization and labor productivity; they will be encouraged to widen cooperation,
strengthen socialist relations with private sector farms and expand cultivable
areas, partly at the expense of the private sector.
13.       The operational part of the Plan, i.e. sections (ii) and (iii),
covers only the period up to 1975. However, it is likely to apply, possibly
in a somewhat modified form, to the period 1976-80. It focuses on three
areas:
(a) price policies;
(b) investment policies; and
(c) social-private sector cooperation.
14.       The present price system 1, will be maintained in principle.  How-
ever, the basis for price determination will be modified:
Guaranteed minimum prices for cereals will be estab-
lished by interrepublican agreement on the basis of
production costs in social sector holdings. Whenever
production costs rise by more than 5 percent, minimum
prices will be adjusted. Market prices are intended
to be kept within the range of minimum prices and the
"+ 15 percent" level through interventionist purchases
or sales. Minimum prices for livestock products will
be fixed in relation to the average actual price for
1/   See Annex 1, paragraph 23.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
maize. The ratios aimed at are for pigs 1:8.5: for
heifers 1:10; for fattened sheep 1:6.9; and for broilers
1:8.9.
Minimum prices, as in recent years, are likely to be of little importance.
At expected market conditions actual prices are likely to rise above rather
than drop below the minimum prices. In the past the Yugoslav price system
has failed to prevent rising prices as inadequate storage facilities and funds
did not allow the build-up of sufficient reserves. Investments in cold
storage and grain drying facilities under the project should contribute to
make the price system more effective.
15.       Annual investments in agriculture until 1975 are projected to reach
4.2 billion dinars at 1972 prices. Annual investment targets for the period
1976 to 1985 were not yet agreed on in November 1974. It was indicated, how-
ever, that for the period 1976 to 1985 annual investments should be maintained
in real terms at the 1975 target level, i.e., at about 6.3 billion dinars at
1974 prices. More than half of this amount will be invested in the private
sector. About 40 percent of the financing will come from enterprises' and
farmers' own contributions. Commercial banks and state and federal funds
are expected to provide another 40 percent and the remainder is expected to
come from bilateral foreign credits, IBRD credits and special subsidies.
16.       For the social sector the Plan specifies the following sources of
finance for additional investments of 750 million dinars (at 1973 prices) per
year during 1973 to 1975:
1973     1974     1975
-- Dinar mill 
Basic Turnover Tax                         300      330       350
Counterpart Funds of Foreign Credits       165      165        -
IBRD Credits                                -       165       330
Other Domestic Resources                    -        90        70
The turnover tax funds are distributed to kombinats and cooperatives as
price subsidies for wheat (.10 Din per kg) sugar beets (.03 Din per kg),
and milk (.25 Din per kg); they are earmarked for investments and not subject
to redistribution to the workers. The counter-part funds of foreign credits
are distributed among the Republics and Provinces according to their share
in the production of the social sector agriculture. The Republics and
Provinces will channel these funds through their banks to social sector
enterprises and specify the investments to be financed with them.
17.       To mobilize enterprises' own resoturces for investments in agriculture
the Plan lists the following incentives:
(i) income tax exemption for investments in agriculture:
(ii) turnover tax exemption for investment credits to agriculture;
(iii) interest rate subsidies for investment credits to agriculture;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(iv) reduction of import duties on agro-industry equipment not
produced in Yugoslavia;
(v) elimination of the dinar deposit requirement 1/ with the
National Bank for foreign credits channelled into agri-
cultural investments;
(vi) increase in the foreign exchange retention quota from
depreciation charges. 2/
18.       Investments in the private sector are projected to amount to about
3.3 billion dinars per year (at 1974 prices) in the 1976-1985 decade. About
a quarter of the required financing is 'expected to come from Republic and
Provincial budgets. The remainder will have to be provided by private farmers
and social sector enterprises that invest in the expansion of contract co-
operation with private farmers. Commercial banks will provide funds through
kombinats or cooperatives, as it will be the case under the project. There
may also be some direct lending to private farmers.
19.       Expanded cooperation among private farmers and between private far-
mers and social sector organizations is emphasized as the major medium to
increase productivity in the private sector. Such cooperation would enhance
modernization of private farms and mobilize more resources for investments
in the private sector. The Republics and Provinces have agreed to support
cooperative arrangements through provision of financing, and interest rate and
tax policies. They also agreed to pass legislation that would allow co-
operating private farmers to join the health and social insurance and pension
scheme of the social sector organization.
Evaluation
20.       The Agricultural Development Plan, for the first time in Yugoslavia's
postwar development, provides a comprehensive guideline for the development of
agriculture, encompassing both the social and the private sector. In recog-
nizing the potential of the private sector and explicitly supporting its
development, the Plan is a big step forward towards better resource utiliza-
tion and more even income distribution although the impact of the multiplic-
ity of interest rates on the achievement of these objectives should be studied
carefully. However, in limiting support to private farmers that either form
a cooperative or cooperate in some way with the social sector, the Plan will
not reach a sizeable portion of the agricultural population, notably the
smaller farmers and those in the mountainous and infertile areas.
1/   Enterprises and banks borrowing abroad are required to deposit a certain
percentage of the foreign credit in dinars with the National Bank without
earning interest.
2/   Enterprises are entitled to retain in foreign exchange 10 percent of the
annual amortization charges.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
21.       The Plan's projected growth rate for the social sector seems to be
too optimistic, unless a major transfer of land from the private sector is
assumed. The Plan apparently fails to recognize that the declining growth
rates in the social sector since 1965/66 were not accidental but rather
indicate a change in the growth pattern in that the social sector with the
land and technology available at present is approaching the level of devel-
opment where production increases become more difficult. Without an increase
in the land available to the social sector crop and fodder production is
limited to increase in yields. With the high level of yields presently
achieved the annual increase over a period of 12 years is unlikely to exceed
3%. Growth rates at or above the projected levels seem to be possible in
production lines where large production increases can be achieved with no
or little input of land, such as livestock production. However, their produc-
tion increase above 3%-4% per year would require increasing imports of corn,
which the Plan does not foresee.
22.       The planned growth rates for the private sector seem achievable.
They would, however, imply a growing income discrepancy between the private
and social sectors unless the labor force in the private sector would decrease
by about 5% per year. Migration is likely to continue, although at a lower
pace than 5% per year, leading to either an increase in the average farm size
or transfer of land to the social sector. An increase in average farm size
would lead to better resource utilization and increased productivity in the
private sector and would enhance contract cooperation which is concentrated
on the larger farms for reasons of economies of scale. However this is
limited by the present regulations on farm size. The latter alternative,
transfer of land to the social sector would be feasible only in areas where
the social sector is sufficiently represented.
23.       Apart from the widely practiced contract cooperation, the Plan puts
great emphasis on "various forms of cooperation" that will permit "large scale
production through highly developed forms of production cooperation on signifi-
cantly larger areas in the private sector". It seems doubtfull however, that
these forms of cooperation can be developed easily in the private sector.
The measures foreseen in the Plan tend to strengthen the economic position
of the larger private farms without offering persuasive incentives to join
in large-scale production cooperation.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Production and Marketing
Production
1.        Crop Production.  Yugoslavia's crop production over the last 10 years
has fluctuated significantly, as shown in Tables 1 and 2. Total production
of certain crops has shown annual increases of 70 percent, and others, decreases
of as much as 33 percent. 'Despite this great variability from year to year,
caused almost entirely by weather conditions, there is an overall upward trend
in output, most of which has come from increased yields. The area devoted to
crops also fluctuates significantly from year to year. Wheat area shows a
downward trend since 1969, even though total output has tended to remain un-
changed. The area under maize has also varied from year to year, but shows a
slight downward trend since 1967. This decrease in cereals has been accompanied
by an increase in industrial crops, notably, sunflower and other oil seeds.
2.        A major constraint on the development of cron production is the low
level of irrigation and drainage. At present, only about 100,000 ha or 1 per-
cent of the arable land has modern irrigation. In addition, there are numerous
traditional gravity irrigation systems, most of which are inefficient and
antiquated. The potential for irrigation in Yugoslavia is estimated at about
3.1 million ha.
3.        The need for irrigation varies by regions and depends on the amount
and pattern of annual precipitation. In the Danube, Sava and Drava River sys-
tems, irrigation provides supplemental water needed, especially, during the
months June, July, August and September. During this period, temperatures are
high and precipitation is erratic and often low. In the Danube-Tisa-Danube
complex the need for supplemental irrigation is even more pronounced. During
the vegetative period April - October about 600 mm of water is required. Over
a 20 year period, one-fourth of the years indicate a 50% shortage, and one-
fourth of the years a 33% shortage of needed water supply. Irrigation in these
areas would be supplemental to the normal precipitation pattern. It would
assure maximum crops each year and, thus, increase production by approximately
50%.
4.        The most critical need for irrigation exists in Macedonia and Kosovo.
In these areas, increase in crop production depends upon a full water supply.
In a large part of these Republics, without a full irrigation supply, the lands
cannot be utilized for any intensive farming. The ultimate program for agri-
cultural development will require storage facilities and perhaps inter-basin



ANNEX 3
Page 2
transfer of water supply. It is estimated that in these dry areas of
Yugoslavia where less than 50% of required water for crop production comes
from normal precipitation, a full water supply would increase crop production
from 60% to 200%. Without water, a large part of the area would remain in
natural vegetation.
5.        Water rights will not be a problem on the small scale developments
as proposed in this project. Water supply may become a limiting factor in the
drier areas of Macedonia and Kosovo. This factor places a limitation of model
development to sources of water supply which have adequate natural flows during
the vegetative period.
6.        The need for drainage, including both surface and subsurface drainage,
is most pronounced in Croatia, Slovenia and Montenegro where non-permeable sub-
soils prevent the full development of crop production potential. The total
area requiring drainage in the three Republics comprises about 1.2 million ha.
Drainage in some areas would enable full production from at present zero produc-
tion. Together with land development and consolidation it would be particularly
beneficial to the private sector. In many regions it would be a precondition
for efficient mechanization.
7.        The project's overall impact on crop production would be a reduced
fluctuation in annual grain harvests and an increase in the production of maize,
sugarbeets and forage crops. W4heat production would slightly decrease, by about
3,500 metric tons, as some wheat growing area would be transferred to vegetable
production. The project at full development would raise annual maize produc-
tion by 50,000 metric tons (less than 1 percent of the 1973 production),
sugarbeet production by 85,000 metric tons (about 3 percent of 1973 production)
and alfalfa and maize silage by 80,000 metric tons per year. The increased
production would be absorbed by the domestic market. It would provide for the
rising input needs of livestock production.
8.        Vegetable Production.  Vegetable production covering 3% of the arable
land is concentrated in Macedonia and Serbia Proper, where more than 80-85% of
total tomato and paprika production is concentrated. The private sector produces
most of the labor intensive fresh vegetables to be sold on local peasant markets.
The social sector concentrates on capital intensive production lines, such as
beans, peas and tomatoes, for industrial processing.
9.        Increased annual vegetable production from the project at full dev-
elopment would amount to about 115,000 metric tons of vegetables for industrial
processing, including mainly tomatoes, peas and green beans, and about 11,300
tons of fresh vegetables, including tomatoes, paprika, onions and fresh beans.
10.       Fruit Production.  Fruit production has been fluctuating heavily
with weather conditions (Table 4). The production of cherries, apples, pears
and peaches shows a clearly upward trend as the development of the number of
trees indicates (Table 5). The project would result in increased fruit produc-
tion by about 14,000 metric tons, including fruits such as cherries, straw-
berries, raspberries, blackberries and table and wine grapes. Incremental
production would vary between 1% and 5% of 1973 production.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       Livestock Production.  The relatively more stable output trend for
livestock products is shown in Table 7. The fluctuations in output that have
occurred are the result of both weather conditions, affecting feed availability,
and adverse market conditions. Since 1965, beef production expanded at an
average annual growth rate of 2.5-2.7%, well below the consumption growth rate
of more than 4.5% per year. Fluctuations occurred during the 1965-1973 period.
Production stagnated between 1965 and 1970 at low cattle prices, varying in
the social sector between Din 5.5 and Din 7 per kg for fattened young cattle
and between Din 4 and Din 6 in the private sector (Table 7). Livestock pro-
duction picked up quickly with increasing prices after 1970. Annual growth
rates increased above 5%. However, market production grew only less than 3%
annually due to rebuilding cattle herds which declined under the influence of
prices and market conditions 1968/69.
12.       Production of beef and veal in 1973 amounted to '320,000 metric tons
of which almost 50,000 tons (carcass weight equivalents) served to increase
the cattle herd. About 74,000 tons were exported, most of this (80 percent)
to the EEC, principally Italy. The project includes a beef fattening component
which would result in an increase of baby beef production of 3,300 tons. In
addition, there would be an increase of about 1,400 tons of meat from cull cows.
13.       Pork production has remained at about the level of the early 1960's,
but was subject to short cycles related to market conditions. There has also
been a marked expansion in the outDut of poultry meat and eggs. Both pork and
poultry are being produced to an increasing extent in the social sector, which
by 1973, accounted for 55 and 45 percent of total production respectively. The
project would increase pig production by about 3,000 tons, equivalent 1% of
annual production in 1973.
14.       The size of the sheeD flock is beginning to fall, and the output of
both wool and mutton is declining accordingly. This seems to be associated
with a shift of demand to pork and poultry products at the prevailing prices.
The sheep flock is held almost exclusively on private farms (96 percent) and
is comprised generally of low Productivity multi-purpose local breeds. In the
mountainous areas sheep are kept under extremely extensive conditions. With
no winter fodder prepared they are brought down to the Mediterranean coast or
to the valleys, at times even as far as Vojvodina, despite state and community
laws that borbid wandering. Lambs are usually born between February and March
and frequently sold from winter pastures at low weight. A change in this
pattern would require relatively large investments to provide for increased
production, harvesting and storage of winter feed. The Project in financing
these investments would result in an increase of 55,000 sheep, eauivalent to
less than 1 percent of the present sheep flock.
15.       Milk production amounted to 3 billion kg in 1973, 89 percent of which
was produced on private sector farms. Production stagnated between 1966 and
1971 and began to rise modestly thereafter. Production and marketing organiza-
tion of milk are inefficient in Yugoslavia. Average milk production per cow
amounted to 1,235 kg in 1973 after it had passed the 1,200 kg level already in
1966. Only 25 percent of the total production was marketed on "authorized
markets". The amount which has been marketed directly by peasants is not
known, but it is not likely to exceed another 15-20 percent. (Table 13).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
16.       Efficiency in milk production differs widely between regions as well
as between the social and private sectors. In 1973 milk production per cow
was more than 2,200 kg in Vojvodina and less than 1,000 kg in Bosnia-Hercegovina
and Macedonia. In the same year milk production in the social sector averaged
4,000 kg per cow for the whole of Yugoslavia while in Slovenia it passed even
the 4,500 kg level. The social sector markets almost its total production.
It is the major source of supply for the large cities. The private sector sells
less than 20 percent of its production to processing plants. The low production
and marketing efficiency in the private sector has the following reasons:
(a) Lack of marketing outlets in many parts of the country,
especially in the mountains. Farmers have only the choice
to either consume the milk or sell it in form of cheese.
Consequently, incentives to modernize or expand milk produc-
tion hardly exist.
(b) Low qualities of the cows, varying from high yielding Simmentals
via various types of cross breeds to pure local breeds, mostly
Busha, with low productivity in milk and meat production.
(c) Low productivity of fodder production, particularly on poor
grasslands in the hilly and mountainous areas with an average
fodder production of less than 3,000 kg of green matter per ha.
17.       The project makes an integrated effort to improve these conditions:
(a) By providing milk collection stations that would improve
marketing possibilities of private farmers, and raise farm
gate prices, especially in less developed communities with
lacking marketing outlets:
(b)  By financing investments in private farms that would improve
the fodder and livestock quality and, thus, raise milk produc-
tion and provide the basis for an increase in the production
of beef.
The increase in milk production at full development would amount to about 90
million liters, equivalent to 37 of total production in 1973. It would raise
per capital milk consumption bv 4.3 liters or 6% above the 1973 level.
Marketing
18.       The increase in production resulting from the project would be
absorbed predominantly by the domestic market. Only the cattle fattening,
fruit and vegetable comnonents are expected to produce significantly for
exnorts.
19.       Crop Production Market.  Yugoslavia traditionally has been a net
importer of cereals and feeding stuff for animal production. Net imports



ANNEX 3
Page 5
during the 1960's averaged about 500,000 tons per year with wide annual fluc-
tuations, depending upon weather conditions. With increasing livestock produc-
tion net imports of cereals and animal feed have shown a rising trend and with
planned increases in livestock production of 5% per year they will continue to
grow. During 1971-73 they almost doubled to an average of 950,000 tons per
year. The increased output from the project would reduce these import needs
by about 5 percent. iforeover, in stabilizing production it would eliminate a
major erratic element in Yugoslavia's balance of payments.
20.       Vegetable Market.  Most of Yugoslavia's vegetable production is con-
sumed domestically. There are some exports of tomatoes and paprika amounting
to 3% and 9% of their total production, respectively, in 1973. The main buyer
of Yugoslavia's paprika exports is the Federal Republic of Germany which
absorbed 68 percent of the total (Table 16). Germany's paprika imports since
1967 increased by more than 30 percent and are likely to continue to rise,
although probably with slightly decreasing growth rates. Yugoslavia has
maintained successfully its competitive position in West European markets
against increasing competition, mainly from Bulgaria, Romania and Spain. It
can be expected that with their closeness to the main market and long exper-
ience in marketing in this field, Yugoslav exporters will continue to be com-
petitive. Tomatoes were largely exported to the German Democratic Republic
(65% of total exports) as shown in Table 17. In Eastern Europe Yugoslavia
meets heavy competition of COMECON members, notably Bulgaria and Romania whose
total 1972 exports about equalled Yugoslavia's entire production.. Because of
poor market data and the presence of state trading, Yugoslavia's prospects in
the Eastern European markets are uncertain and difficult to evaluate. Western
Europe which absorbed about 10% of Yugoslavia's tomato exports may become more
interesting in the future; import prospects there have improved somewhat since
1968, although short-term forecasts of import needs show only moderate increases.
21.       Domestic vegetable consumption, excluding beans, has been growing
since 1965 at 3.5 percent to 4 percent per year, with slightly increasing growth
rates after 1969. (Table 18). Per capita consumption, almost 80 kg is com-
paratively high relative to the country's per capital income level. Production
and consumption since 1965 developed more or less parallel, although price
development suggests that there might have been a slight tendency of production
to lag behind consumption in recent years (Table 19). The increase in con-
sumption is likely to continue except for potatoes and beans. Yugoslav
sources estimate the annual increase of the future demand slightly above 4%,
based on an income elasticity for demand of 0.64, thus projecting a per capita
consumption of 114 kg (excluding beans and potatoes) in 1985, as compared with
71 kg in 1972. FAO projections, based on an income elasticity of 0.5, arrive
at consumption growth rates of about 3%.
22.       Seasonal prices have fluctuated in wide ranges during 1972-74, (Table
19), indicating the uneven suDply distribution during the year. While there
is some tendency towards oversupply during the main season, the supply of
fresh vegetables is low or non-existent between November and May. In summary,
it can be concluded that there is only limited room for the expansion of con-
sumption during the main season at prices that cover production costs. There



ANNEX 3
Page 6
is, however, a large and growing need for vegetables outside the major season.
This off season demand will only be realized if the supply is adjusted to
avail of it. The project takes this situation into account by providing for
investments in plastic houses to extend the growing season, for investments
to enlarge the storage and cooling capacity, and by emphasizing investments
in vegetable production in the individual sector in Macedonia and along the
Mediterranean coast line.
23.       Fruit Market.  Fruit consumption in Yugoslavia follows more or less
the development of supply. Imports are unimportant; only about 1% of total
apple and pear production have been imported since 1971. Exports play a
significant role only for soft fruits, i.e., for raspberries, cherries, black-
berries and strawberries. EEC countries, especially Germany, are the major
importing countries. Exports to other countries of Western Europe and to
Eastern Europe increased recently and the export structure is well diversified.
(Tables 20 - 22). Market prospects for soft fruit and cherries are excellent,
both domestically and abroad. The chances to export peaches to the EEC have
hardly been exploited so far, and good prospects continue to exist. The mar-
ket for apples and pears is limited to domestic consumption.  There may be
some rather uncertain export possibilities to East European countries. The
production growth that would leave prices at the prevailing level ranges be-
tween 3% to 4% per year. The consumption of plums, notably in the form of
slivovic is decreasing with the result of substantial supplies. Market condi-
tions are not likely to improve neither domestically nor abroad and production
will have to be drastically reduced.
24.       The project provides financing for soft fruits, cherries and peaches
where production is likely to lag behind demand at prevailing prices. Some
apple and pear production may also be included in the project to prevent in-
creasing imports in the future.
25.       Wine Market.  Domestic consumption increased continuously since 1965
with an average annual growth rate of slightly more than 2%. The volume of
exports increased by more than 50% since 1967, and in 1973 exports accounted
for about 10% of total production and for 35% of production sold on authorized
markets. Exports are regionally diversified (Table 23). Slightly more than
40% went to EEC countries, most of it to the Federal Republic of Germany (78%)
and to the United Kingdom (19%). The COMECON absorbed 39% of total exports,
of which 44% were exported to the German Democratic Republic, 40% to the USSR
and 16% to Czechoslovakia. Although export prices have increased steadily
since 1968 (Table 23), export possibilities, particularly in Western Europe,
appear less favorable than they were in the past. With production increase
in the EEC accelerating and consumption growth levelling off, competition is
likely to intensify. Yugoslavia enjoys a good competitive position in Western
European markets and, given its widely diversified exports, should be able to
maintain it. In the domestic market, demand has been projected to rise at 5%
per year, based on an income elasticity of 0.7. Demand, thus, would continue
to outstrip supply and prices are likely to rise somewhat.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
26.       Beef and Veal Market.  Domestic consumption of beef and veal increased
rapidly during 1965-1969, at more than 6% annually, when beef prices were low.
With rising beef prices in 1970 growth leveled off and consumption has stagnated
since. The pattern of price and consumption developments indicates a high
price elasticity of demand for beef and veal in Yugoslavia. Compared with other
countries of similar income level and preference structure Yugoslavia's beef
and veal consumption remained at a low level (Table 11).
27.       Foreign markets absorbed a substantial portion of Yugoslavia's beef
production. Exports during 1965-1973 shared between 23% and 46% of total pro-
duction, depending largely on the market situation in the EEC, notably Italy
(Tables 9 and 10). With the world beef crisis, exports into the EEC decreased
by 35% during the first 8 months of 1974 and came virtually to a halt in mid-
1974 when the EEC imposed an import ban on beef. Subsequently, some beef was
exported to the USSR and the Middle East, but substantially less than the
previous exports to Italy. As a result, prices decreased by more than 10%,
stocks of meat grew up to the ceiling of storage capacities and the number of
fattened cattle increased.
28.       Future prospects of Yugoslavia's beef production depends on the dev-
elopment of exports to the EEC and other countries and of the domestic market.
The present beef market in the EEC is characterized by an increase in the
cattle herd and in beef production as a result of high beef prices in recent
years. Mloreover, per capita beef consumption decreased because of both high
prices and stagnating or decreasing real incomes. As a result there was an
excess supply in the EEC during the second half of 1974. In 1975 production
is likely to continue to grow, following the increase of cattle herds in 1974.
Demand may be pushed up once decreasing producer prices are reflected in lower
retail prices. On the other hand, continuing economic recession may compensate
the expected effect of prices on demand and result, in summary, in a stagnating
EEC demand for 1975. Thus, Yugoslavia's export prospects into the EEC for 1975
can hardly be expected to be more favorable than the 1974 situation. However,
with economic activity picking up in the long-run, the EEC demand for beef is
lilcely to grow. Future EEC beef production will certainly be affected by the
continuing surplus situation on the milk markets, which can be solved only by
a reduction of the number of cows. Since most of the European beef comes from
calves from dairy cows the necessary decrease in the number of dairy cows will
also reduce the meat producing potential of the EEC. In summary, one can
assume that the EEC's import needs for beef will vary between 5% and 10% of
total consumption under normal market conditions. However, due to the cyclical
nature of beef production oversupply tends to occur in two of every six years.
(Table 9).
29.       Yugoslavia's share in total EEC imports varied between 10% and 30%
during 1965 to 1973. Its share tended to increase when imports were low and
to decrease in years with high imports, thus indicating a stable and strong
competitive position. Yugoslavia is likely to maintain this position, even
if it would have to direct a higher percentage of its exports to other member
countries than Italy. One can therefore assume, that Yugoslavia will be able
to maintain a share of at least 10%/1-15% of total projected EEC imports. Taking



ANNEX 3
Page 8
into account the lower import needs of the Common Market, Yugoslavia would
have to reduce its exports to the EEC to about 50% of the average level of the
1968-1973 period, or about 50,000 tons per year in the period 1975-1980. There
may also be some export possibilities in Eastern Europe and oil producing
Middle Eastern countries. However, prospects there remain uncertain and are
difficult to estimate.
30.       The major share of beef production will have to be absorbed by the
domestic market. Income and price elasticities for beef and the beef price
in Yugoslavia will determine domestic demand. The income elasticity of beef
meat in Yugoslavia is estimated at 0.6-0.8. Given the existing substitution
possibilities the price elasticity for beef meat is estimated to be between
1.2 and 1.5. The beef price, at the end of 1974 certainly below its "'long-run
equilibriumt" level, will probably recover to a level of 10%-15% below 1973
prices, i.e., to Din 15-Din 15.5 per kg of high quality beef. Under these
assumptions, domestic demand in 1980 will be somewhat above 300,000 tons.
Adding to this the expected exports of 50,%00  tons per year, Yugoslavia's beef
production would have to increase at an averagye rate of 3% per year to satisfy
total projected demand. W7ith. production growth rates during 1965-73 of 2.5%
the stimaulation of beef production by thc project appears justified in the
long-run. However, the market sittuation in 1977, when the project would begin
to supply additional production, is uncertain.  If production continuses to
grow at 2.57 per year, production in 1977 would total about 317,00(1 tons.
Assunming a per capita real income gronth of 5%' per year, an income elasticity
of .8 and a price elasticity of 1.5. total demqand, including exports, would
just about equal production, thus lcavins no room For additional production
from the project.  In view of thie uincertainties of the world beef market
situation it is recommended that all appraisals of cattle fattening subproj-
ects include a detailed export market analysis at the time of appraisal, and
that these subprojects, irrespective of the general free limit arrangements,
be submitted to the Bank for approval.
31.      MTilk !Iarket.  MTilk and milk products will be consumed entirely on
the domestic market.  Per capita consumption of milk and milk products is low
in Yu,osJavia (Table 14), mainly because of inadequate sunply in most cities.
Per  '.pita consumption increased at less than 2% per year during 1965-1973.
Assumine an average income elasticitv for milk and milk products of 0.5 and
a popuiation growth of 0.9% per year demand will increase at 2.57-3.5% per
year. Mlilk production is not likely to meet demand in the future, if present
trends rontinue.  Imports of milk products are likel  to increase rapidly, as
during 1970-1973 (Table 15) when they more than dotubled.  The increase of milk
Production from the project would satisfy partlv the expected growing demand
and help reduce the growth of imports.
32.       Market for Sheep Produietion.  Domestic consumption of mutton and
wool increased modestly during 1965-1973 with average growth rates below 2%,
with a tendency to decrease during recent years. The tendency towards stag-
nating consumption is mainly due to the lack of supply at prices that would
prevent consumers to shift to consumption of pork or poultry meat. Exports



ANNEX 3
Page 9
decreased by 35% between 1967 and 1973, from 4,600 tons to less than 3,000
tons, although export prices increased drastically from Din 16 per kg carcass
weight in 1968 to Din 45 per kg in 1974. The share of exports in total pro-
duction decreased from almost 10% in 1967 to less than 6% in 1973. Future
domestic as well as export demand will continue to exceed production. The
project would help to reduce the gap.
33.       In summary, the project would result in a small production increase
of individual products in relation to the country's total production. In its
emphasis on products in short supply the market is generally assured, except
in the case of the cattle fattening component. The beef market, at this point
of time, appears uncertain and difficult to project. Provisions would be made
under the project to review the beef market prior to deciding on investments
in this field.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Chart 1: Scheme of the Organization of the Yugoslav Agricultural Market
Prnduct;on Units of Other Social Sec:tor Enterprises
Productioui Units of
Integrated Enterprises "A"                   with Prove  Ind-stries              witfonir Process Industries                                       Production of the Private Sector
Cooperativle                                         L 
Unit of "A"
UiCooperaie Unit
of NIe-Inter ated Eateri  set
Non-Integrated
Cooperatives
Who Saleas  Market
Trade Units
Trad  Uinit                                  tod Process 
and Process                                  Ind Matrk of Non                   a
Industry of "A"                              Integrated       I~No-n-lrgrated
-.                   ~~~~~~~Enterprises  Li.Trade Org. and
Process Indostries
Retail Shops                                  Retail Shops                                   N.n-Iet.rgrated
of 'A"                                        of Non-                                        Retail Organteation
Ine fatd                                                                                                                 Local Peasant Marhet
Organiad Marhat JAuthoriand Parc,hases aed Sales)
World Bank-9398             CD
May 1975






ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRA.ISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PILOJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Area Production and Average Yield of the Principal Cereal Crops
,Theat                       Maize                      Oats                       Barley                      Rye
Area    Pro-    Average    Area    Pro-      Average    Area   Pro-   Average    Area   Pro-  Average          Area   Pro-  Average
Har-   due-      Yield     Har-    duc-       Yield     Har-   due-      Yield     Har-   duc-    Yield        Har-   duc-    Yield
vested  tion     per ha    vested  tion      per ha     vested tion    per ha      vested tion   per ha        vested tion   per ha
1965      1,680   3,460    20.5       2,550   5,920     23.1       321    338      10.5       405    682     16.8         146    156     10.7
1966      1,830   4,600    25.2       2,500   7,980      31.9      310    386      12.1       394    713     18.1         141    176     12.4
1967      1,880   4,820    25.6       2,510   7,200     28.7       301    363      12.0       343    606     17.6         138    171     12.4
1968      2,010   4,360    21.8       2,460   6,810     27.6       285    295      10.4       312    450     14.4         132    138     10.4
1969      2,019   4,880    24.2       2,397   7,821      32.6      273    308      11.3       299    459     15.3         124    135     10.9
1970      1,831   3,790    20.7       2,352   6,933     29.5       283    309      10.9       280    402     14.4         112    127     11.3
1971      1,929   5,604    29.1       2,422   7,443     30.8       265    312      11.8      280    464      16.5         110    134     12.2
1972      1,924   4,843    25.2       2,383   7,930     33.3       256    260      10.1       290    487     16.8         104    120     11.6
1973      1,697   4,750    28.0       2,377   8,253     34.7       251    298      11.9       328    676     20.6          96    118     12.2
Area Production and Average Yield of Principal Industrial Crops
Sugar Beet                       Tobacco                            Cotton                           Sunflower
Area         Pro-    Average      Area       Pro-     Average       Area       Pro-        Average    Area        Pro-      Average
Har-         duc-     Yield       Har-       duc-       Yield       Har-       duc-         Yield     Har-        duc-       Yield
vested       tion    per ha       vested     tion     per ha        vested     tion        per ha     vested      tion      per ha
1965        79.7      2,620       329        61.0        53.6        8.8        8.3         5.5        6.7        159.0      265.0      16.7
1966       106.0      4,030       380        53.2        54.1        8.6        7.9         6.o        7.5        154.0      282.0      18.2
1967       102.0      3,680       363        58.7        54.3        9.2       10.0        10.3       10.3        147.0      250.0      17.0
1968        79.0      2,910       369        56.9       43.8         7.7       12.1         8.7        7.1       161.0       309.0      19.2
1969        95.3      3,636       381        53.9        46.8        8.7       11.3         9.3        8.2        218.0      390.1      17.8
1970        85.1      2,948       346        53.3        49.0        9.1       13.5        12.0        8.8        194.4      264.0      13.6S
1971        84.7      2,961       350        49.2       44.o         8.9       11.6        10.1        8.7        183.1      347.0      19.0
1972        79.2      3,274       413        57.0        62.0       11.0       10.2         7.3        7.2        171.3      277.0      16.2
1973        86.3      3,338       387        56.9       65.0        11.5        8.8         7.7        8.8        224.5      434.0      19.3
Area in thousands of hectares.
Production in thousands of metric tons.
Average yield in quintals per ha                                                                                                          f
Sourcee Statisticki Godisnjak Jugoslavije
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICUL-URAL CREDIT PROJECI'
YUGOSLAVIA
Area, Production and Average Yield Df the Principal Fodder Crops
Lucerne                            Clover                           Forage Beet                      Meadows                             Pastures
Average                          Average                           Average                           Average                           Average
Area                   Yield     Area                   Yield      Area                   Yield      Area                   Yield      Area                   Yield
Harvested  ProductiDn  per ha   Harvested  Production  per ha   Harvested  Production  per ha   Harvested  Production  per ha   Harvested  Production  per ha
1965      347       1,830         52        216         999        40       35.2          945      163        1,930       3,740       19        4,370       1,660       3.8
1966      357        2,180        60        222       1,170        46        35.8       1,030       185       1,930       4,070       21        4,510       1,990       4.4
1967      359        2,080        57        224       1,080        42        36.o         796       169       1,930       3,810       20        4,480       1,930       4.3
1968      348        1,900        53        231         984        38        36.9         850       169       1,930       3,270      17         4,460       1,740       3.9
1969      349        2,061        58        225       1,113        43        36.5         960      176        1,914       3,855      20         4,446       1,876       4.2
1970      362        2,106        57        233       1,156        44        35.5         753      165        1,933       4,052       21        4,414       1,863       4.2
1971      362        1,892        51        231         992        39        35.2         670       152       1,933       3,321       17        4,351       1,533       3.5
1972      357        1,897         52       268       1,145        38        35.1         688       159       1,931       3,685       19        4,324       1,805       4.2
1973      374        2,139        56        277       1,238        40        36.0         722       160       1,923       3,989       21        4,183       1,869       4.5
Area and Production of the Principal Vegetable Crops
Melons and
Potatoes                      Beans                    -Pe as                      Paprika                   Tomatoes                 Watermelons
Produc-                    Produc-                     Produc-                   Produc-                    Produc-                    Produc-
Area            Lion         Area         tion          Area          tion         Area         tion         Area          tion         Area          tion
1965                320          2,380           37           171          12,6           11           28          176           26           283           37           391
1966                333          3,230           38           216          13.6           13           31           237          29           333           40           481
1967                330          2,810           38           199          14,4           14           33          246           30           322           40           520
1968                332          2,890           39           175          14.7           13           35          243           31           323           41           445
1969                330          3,144           38           192          15.2           16           35          255           31           328           40           432
1970                329          2,964           39           188          16.0           17           35          269           33           313           41           400
1971                326          2,952           40           173          16.0           18           38          294           34           355           40           418
1972                315          2,406           40           154           15.2          15           40          320           34           368           43           413
1973                317          2,974           43           197          15.6           18           42          333           36           412           45           485
Note:   Area in thousands of hectares.
Production in thousands of metric tons.
Source   Statisticki Godisnjak Jugoslavije
May 19'5



ANNEX 3
Table J
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Average Annual Growth Rates of Production
of Major Vegetables Between 1965-1973
Average Annual
Growth Rates
Tomatoes                                      3.0 - 3.5
Paprika                                       5.8 - 6.5
Peas                                          5.0 - 6.0
Onions                                        3.5
Beans                                         0
Melons                                        0
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Production of the Principal Fruits
(In thousands of metric tons)
Sour
Plums    Apples    Pears    Cherries    Wialnuts    Figs    Cherries    Olives    Citrus    Peaches    Apricots    Grapes
1965      399      135        40         41           29       19         23         20        0.71        31         17         1,120
1966      723      214        84         51           32       26         28         29        o.83        47          22        1,230
1957      705      301        87         47           29       23         27         40        0.92        54         26         1,050
1968      721      304        99         49           20       20         31         11        0.68        48         16         1,270
1969    1,292      483       111         50           39       20         36          7        0.87        58         35         1,499
1970      896      277       112         54           34       22         39          8        1.14        57         22         1,101
1971      817      327       112         59           33       18          7         15        1.60        61         17         1,o96
1972      972      309        91         50           26       17          8         12        1.70        68          29        1,139
1973      615      448       141         52           51       18          1         15        2.10        68         24         i,450
Source   Statisticki Godisnjak  Jugoslavije
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Development of the Number of Fruit Trees 1965-1973
1965      1966      1967       1968      1969       1970      1971       1972      1973
---------                       -----No. of Trees-------------------------------___
Apple           18,900    19,400    20,100    20,300    21,014    21,455    22,308    22,415    22,838
Pears            9,550      9,630     9,600     9,590      9,670     9,382      9,610     9,669      9,867
Plums           81,200    82,800    83,300    83,300    83,897    84,846    84,206    83,653    83,095
Cherries         4,350     4,280      4,370     4,380      4,454     4,474      4,531     4,556      4,564
Sour  Cherries   4,230     4,410      4,590     4,750      4,957     5,511      5,752     5,966      6,000
Peaches          4,530     4,750      4,890     5,100      5,259     5,363      5,486     5,598      6,035
Source:  Statisticki Godisnjak Jugoslavije 1974
May 1975



ANTNEX 3
Tab le 6
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Population Livestock
(In Thousands)
Cattle    Horses      Sheep      Pigs    Poultry
1965     5,219     1,109      9,433     6,985     31,429
1966     5,584     1,131      9,868     5,118     31,685
1967     5,710     1,134     10,319     5,525     35,153
1968     5,693     1,126     10,346     5,865     35,974
1969     5,261     1,109      9,730     5,093     37,142
1970     5,029     1,076      8,974     5,r,544   40,854
1971     5,138     1,o48      8,703     6,562     44,954
1972     5,148     1,015      8,326     6,216     44,584
1973     5,366       964      7,774     6,342    149,206
1974 -  5,681        945      7,852     7,401     54,085
A Preliminary
Source   Statisticki Godisnjak Jugoslavije
May 1975



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Production of Meat and Animal Fats
(thousand metric tons)
Meat                                       Fats
Beef   Pork   Mutton   Poultry   Other    Total    Pork   Beef   Total
1965      189    396      45        84       6;       778      190      6    196
1966      227    287      48        88        59      709      166      8    174
1967      256    309      50        95        70      780      176    ic,   186
1968      292    323      59       107        77      858      193    12    205
1969      275    287      55       110       69       806      170    14    184
1970      245    339      48       142        71      847      201    io    212
1971      263    384      52       149       75       922      227    11    238
1972      266    340      50       144       76       875      221    11    231
1973      272    308      50       160        77      857      195    14    210
Producer Prices for Beef 1965-19'(U
(Din per kg liveweight)
1965     1966     1967      1968     1969      1970     1972     1973      1974     1974
Jan.-June  October
Private Sector    5.og      5.93     5.83     5.25      6.33     7.95
15      17.5-18   17        16
Social Sector     5,53      6.61     6.72      6,23     6.95     8,47
/a Preliminary
Sources: Institute of Marketing and Agricultural Economics, Belgrade and Statisticki Godisnjak
Jugoslavije
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Numnber of Cattle in Western and Eastern Europe
965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973        1974
-----------(mill, head)-=------------
EEC countries (9) /1   70.70   72.06   72.59   73.41   73.49   72.69   72.34   74.36   79.21    n.a.
Yugoslavia              5.22    5.58    5.71    5.69    5.26    5.03    5.14    5.15    5.37    5.68
COMECON /2              --      --      --    124.28  122.9   126.28  130.23  133       132.1     n.a.
of which USSR/2     87.17   93.44   97.11   97.17   95.16   99.2   102.4  104        106.2     n.a.
/1  Source:  Die Lage auf den Rindfleischsektor.  Bruxelles Oct. 1974
/2  Source: World Beef Prospects and Dink Lending. Washington 1974
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Production, Consumption and Net Foreign Trade of Beef in the EEC, Yugoslavia and COMECON
1965      1966      1967      1968      1969       1970      1971      1972      1973       1974      19B( /8
--------------------------------------------1,000 tons*-------------------------------------------------
EEC /1
Total Production 2              4,907     5,365      5,550     5,650     5,569     5,784      5,842     5,349     5,383      6,150     6,300-6,800
Total Consumption               5,515     5,865      5,952     6,007     6,215     6,265      6,211     6,093     6,149      6,200     6,900-7,4Ix0
Production as percentage of
Consumption (%)                    89        91.4       93.3      94        89.6      92.3       94.1      87.8      87.5       99.2      90-95
Imports                           608       500        402       357       646       481        369       744       766         50       300-600
of which from Yugoslavia (%)       12.8      18.4       24.9      30.8      17.3      17.5       26.3      12.0       9.7
Yugoslavia /3
Production  4                     250       245        248       223       241       268        261       299       319  4    127 /a    340-370
Variation in Stocks 6
(- =Increase)                   - 51      - 19         --         65        45     - 17         --      -  34     - 47       n.a.
Consumption                       121       135        148       178       174       167        164       176       198      n.a.        290-320
Exports into EEC.                  78         92       100       110       112        84         97        89         74        38.7t       50
Per Capita Consumption
6.2       6.8       7.4       8.8        8.5       8.1       8.0       8.5        9.5                13-14.3
COMECON
Production                      5,277      5,840     6,697     7,481     7,332      7,781 /8  7,813 /8  7,980 /&  7,926 /8
of which USSR                   3,329     3,752      4,335     4,675     4,760      5,381     5,553     5,740     6,370 78
Imports USSR                       56         93       --        --        --          65       114        33
Consumption USSR                3,385      3,789     4,211     4,597     4,731      5,446     5,667     5,773
1  Source:  The Situation in the Beef Sector of the EEC.  Bruxelles 1974 and Meat Balance in OECD Countries.  Paris 1974.                                 (I
2 Market production without variation in stocks.                                                                            -                             Ix
aStatistical Yearbook of YugoslIavia 1972 and 1974 and Meat Balance in OECD Countries.                                                                   w
4  Including variation in stocks.
5 six months.
Converted into meat.
7 Eight months
Estimates.
* Unless otherwise indicated.
May 1975



ANNEX 3
Table lO
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Yugoslavia's Exports of Beef and Veal /1
(Percent of Total Exports)
8 months 8 months
1970     1971     1972     1973     1973      1974
Italy                  65.6     63,1     66.2      77.8     84.9     67.7
W. Germany              1.5      8.8      5.2       1.6      1.5      7.5
Other EEC Countries     2,8      1.8      --        --       --
Total EEC              69,9     73.7     71,4      79.4    86.4    75.2
Greece                 20,5     19,6    22.5    17,8    10,2          1.3
Switzerland             8,1      6.3      5.0       2.8      2,8      2.8
USSR                    --       --        --       --       --      19.9
Other Countries         1.5      0.4      1,1       --       o,6      0.8
Total Exports         100      100      100       100      100      100
/1 Excluding live animals.
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade of SFR
Yugoslavia, Belgrade 1974
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Per Capita Consumption of Meats in Yugoslavia and Neighboring Countries
Beef             Mutton    Poultry    Total                               Beef             Mutton   Poultry     Total
Country         Period   & Veal    Pork    & Lamb    Meat          Meat A  Country                   & Veal  Pigmeat   & Lamb     Meat       Meat /
--------------------- -------- ----    - -kg/Capita---------------------------------------------------------------------
USSR           1966-68     19.7    15.7        4.o       3.4       42.8     Hungary        1966-68      8.6   27.4       0.9      12.0       48.9
1969-71     21.2    16.2       3.8       4.7       145.9                   1969-71      9,1   29.5       0.8      14.0       53.4
1971      21.3    18.4        3.9       5.2       48.8                     1971        9.4   30.0       0.7      14.9       55.0
1972       21.4    18.5       3.5       5.0       48.4                     1972        8M8    34.o      o.6      15.1       58.5
Bulgaria       1966-68     10.9    17.1        8.8       4.9       41.7    Poland          1966-68     14.1   32.3        --       2.7       49.1
1969-71    10.5    17.5        7.7       7.9       43.6                    1969-71     15.0   32.8        --       3.5       51.3
1971      10.3    19.7        7.2       9.8       47.0                     1971       1146    35.3                3.4       53.3
1972      n.a.    n.a.        n.a.      n.a.      n.a.                     1972       13.4   37.8        --       4.1       55.3
Czechoslovakia  1966-68    22.8    31.8                  4.9       59.5    Romania 2       1966-68     12.4   18.4       3.7       4.7       39.2
1969-71     24.2    32.0        --       6.7       62.9                    1969-71     10.5   19.1       3.7       6.o       39.3
1971       24.8    32.5                 7.4       64.7                     1971       10.1   20.0       3.6       6.4       40.1
1972       n.a.    35.5         -       7.9       n.a.                     1972       10.6   23.4       3.6       7.0       44.6
D. R. of Germanyl956-68     17.3    37.9        1.1       4.3      60.6    Yugoslavia      1966-68      7.7   13.4        2.3      4.8        28.2
1969-71     19.2    40.1       1.1       5.3       65.7                    1969-71      8.6   13.5       2.3       6.6       31.0
1971      18.5    42.0        1.1       5.9       67.5                     1971        8.8    15.1      2.3       7.2       33.4
1972      18.0    44.5        1.1       6.3       69.9                     1972        8.4    15.1      2.2       6.9       32.6
/1 Exclusive of minor quantities of other meats and fats.
r   Romanian carcass weights include edible offals.
Apparent consumption in terms of dressed carcass weight slaughtered in the country plus net imports.  No reference is made to stored quanitites
nor to foreign trade in Panned meat.  The figures may, therefore. differ somewhat from national sources.
Source:  "Review of the Agricultural Situation in Europe at the end of 1973", Volume 11, Livestock & Meat.  Secretariat of UNECE.  1974.
May 1975
t W



ANNEX 3
Table 12
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Milk Production 1965-1973
Total Milk     Milk Production     Milk Production      Milk Production
Year        Production     Social Sector        Social Sector        Private Sector
(mi. liters)      (mil. liters)    (% of total pro-    (% of total pro-
duction)           duction)
1965           2,234             385                17.23               82.77
1,966          2,437             397                16.29               83,71
1967           2,529             392                15.50               84.50
1968           2,554             368                14.40               85.60
1969           2,547             358                14.05               85e95
1970           2,490             335                13.45               86.55
1971           2,503             312                12.46               87.54
1972           2,729             326                11.94               88.06
1973           3,012             324                10.75               89.25
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
Milk Production per Cow 1572-1973
1iCg. per cow)
Seroia
Total    Bosnia and                                                  Serbia
Yugoslavia Herzegovina Montenegro Croatia Macedonia Slovenia Total Proper Vojvodina Kosovo
Average of Social and   1972       1,167          942          988    1,261       903     1,860  1,102   987    2,064         71.1
Private Sector         1973      1,235          985       1,007    1,283        909     1,915  1,228 1,146    2,209         770
Social Sector            1972      3,937        3,155       2,729    4,100    3,770       4,403  3,915 4,216    3,733    2,672
1973     L,000        3,570        3,220    4,096    3,605       L,532  3,987 4,3L8    3,758    2,556
Market Production of Milk 1967-197S
Share of             Share of                                    Share of              Share of
Share of                                Social Sector         Social Sector Market                        Private Sector        Private Sector
Total Market        Total Market                            Market Production   Production in Total                           Market Production   Production in the Total
Total Production   Production           Production in             Market         in Total Market      Milk Production             Market          in Total Market       Production of the
Year    of Milk              of Milk             Total Production       Production        Production           of Social Sector           Production       Production            Private Sector
(million liters)   (million liters)          )TT            (million liters)          (M)                   (5,)              (million liters)        (7)                   (1,)
1965       2,234                 --                   --                    --                 --                   --                                --                  --
1966       2,437                 __                   __                    __                 __                   __                      __                  __                   __
1967       2,529                 531                  20.99                 301                56.68                76.78                   230                 43.32                13.76
1968       2,554                 509                  19.92                 288                56.58                78.26                   221                 43.42                10.10
1969       2,547                 554                  21.75                 289                52.16                80.72                   265                 47.84                12.10
1970       2,490                 555                  22.28                 277                49.90                82.68                   278                 50.10                12.90
1971       2,503                 594                  23.73                 258                43.43                82.69                   336                 56.57                15.33
1972       2,729                 668                  24.47                 266                39.82                81.59                   402                 60.18                16.72
1973       3,012                 755                  25.06                 276                36.55                85.18                   479                 63.45                17.81
Source:  Statisticki Godisnjak 1974
May 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                   x



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Consumption of Milk and Milk Products 1965 - 1972
Total Consumltion
196$      1966       L967       1968 1969            1970      1971       1972
Milk Fresh (mil. lit.)       1,326      1,471     1,526      1,522      1,519     1,478      1,493      1,511
Milk Powder ('000 tons)          18         4          5         5          5         4          5          2
Cheese (000 tons)              93         97        97         97        101       101         87        106
Butter (?000 tons)              16         18         18        19         20        22         18         19
Per Capita Consmap)tion
Milk Fresh (lit.)             68.0       74.0       76.5      75.5       74.6      72.5       72.6       74.3
Milk Powder (kg.)              0.9        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.1
Cheese (kg.)                   4.8        4.9       4.9        4.8        5.0       4.9        4.2        5.1
Butter (kg.)                   0.8        0.9       0.9        0.9        100       1 .1       0.9        0.9
Source:  Statististicki Godisnjak  Jagoslavije 1974
May 1975
CDJ



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Yugoslav Trade Balance for Milk Products
(Din t000)
1970                                           1973
Exports     Imports      Trade Balance        Exports     Imports      Trade Balance
Milk
Powder              57        9,371        ( 9,31 4p'             405      26,963        (25,558)
Fresh           11,538       11 484             54  .1_663                   -             1,633
Subtotal      11,9         2,            ( 9,260)            2,068       26,963        (24,895)
Butter               -         31,235        (31,235)              _        106,232       (106,232)
Cheese             6582           5h8       __61034             3988        5,o84           34,
Total             18=           a2,66   (34,479)                ,Li  6  1279__            _      9.23)
,*  (   ) indicates imports exceed exports.
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade 1970 and 1973 of the SFR Yugoslavia
May 1975
5.
\J1



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Papriknt Exports, 1973
(fjin. '000 -
Czechos-          F.R of   Switzer-           Nether
Austria  lovakia  Hungary  Germany    land    Sweden   lands   USA   Israel   France   Greece   Canada   Australia   USSR   Belgium
Capsicum                 8o    3,213     272     3,585       260      106      --     --      --       --        --        -_        -_         -_       --
Frozen Capsicum          --     --        --     6,149        76      531      564    151     --       --        --       --         --         --       --
Paprika unground         --     --        --     2,300        _ --                    --      693       --       _         --        --
Preserved Capsicum      598        3            27,165        66    1,181      288    --      87        277      41        364       435        10       --
Paprika, ground      1,859        25       _     1,175       256       27    _-           --       --           126        340        15                 5,653
Pastled Paprika          --     --            --   m                  --       --  1,085      --
Total   59,056    2,537    3,241      272    40,374       658    1,845      852  1,236     780      277      167        704       450         10      5,653
As percentage
of Total  100    4.30      5.49    0.46     68.37       1.11    3.12     1.44   2.09   1.32      o.47    0.28       1.19       0.76      0.02       9.58
Source-  Statistics of Foreign Trade Belgrade, 1974.
May 1975                                                                                                                                                       HC



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Tomato Exports 1973
(Din'000)
D. R. of                Great
Austria     Germany     Poland     Britain      Jaran      Zambia     Australia
Tomatoes                                709           --   --               --           --        --           --
Tomatoes in
Airtight Containers                      7       13.686          2        2,020      4,15         4             46
Total                      20,628       716        13,686          2        2,020      4.1$         a             I6
As Percentage of Total        100       3.47        66,35       0.01          9.79     20.14     0M2            0.22
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade) Belgrade 1974.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Consumption of Fruit, Vegetables and Wine, 1965 - 1972
Total Consumption in tons '000
1965      1966      1967      1968       1969      1970      1971       1972
Beans                        172        180       179       179        179       163       183        164
Other Vegetables            1,005     1,166     1,215     1,230      1,240     1,436     1,459      1,1481
Fresh Fruit and Grapes        881     1,173     1,260     1,182      1,352     1,161      1,040     1,031
Dried Fruit                     6        15        20         9         30        10          6        12
Wine                       4j840      5,260     5,286     5,300      5,760     5,480     5,530      5,630
Per Capita  Consumption in kg.
Beans                        8.8        9.1       9.0       8.9        8.8       8.0       8.9        7.9
Other Vegetables            51.5       59.1      60.9      61.0       60.9      70.4      70.9       71.3
Fresh Fruit and Grapes      45.2       59.4      63.2      58.6       66.4      56.8      50.6       49.6
Dried Fruit                  0.3        0.8       1.0       0.4        1.5       0.5       0.3        0.6
Wine                         24.8      26.6      26.5      26.3       28.3      26.9       26.9      27.1
Source:  Statisticki Godisnjak 1974
May 1975
H ,



APPRAISAL OF
Ai_ AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
rgeProducer Selling Prices of Agricuitural Products for Individual Farms /
1972
Janu     February  March  A l   a   June  July  August  September  October  November  December
-- - - - - - -Din.per Kg.    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
Vegetables
Beans                        4.98      14.89    4.87   14.88 4.91  14.80  4.91   5.07        5.20       6.93      7.74      7.38
Potatoes                     0.72     0.65      0.65   0.86 1.23  1.25  1.16   1.07          1.00       1.07      1.08      1.15
Fruits
Table Apples                 2.10      2.72     2.143   2.78  -      -    2.28   2.83        2.54       1.92      2.06       2.70
Table Grapes                  -         -        -       -    -      -     -      2.52       2.50       2.53      2.61       2.27
Apricots and Peaches          -         -        -       -    -    2.62  2.614   2.35        1.53       2.08       -          -
1973L.
Vegetables
Beans                        7.03      6.98     7.03   6.81 6.98  6.24  6.95   5.88          7.84       7.90      8.32       8.00
Potatoes                     1.31      1.58     1.68   1.79 3.09  3.83  2.39   1.68          1.40       1.40      1.47       1.50
Fruits
Table Apples                 2.93      3.62     3.51   3.68  -       -    3.09   1.80        1.21       2.48      2.24       2.10
Table Grapes                  _ -            -       -      -        -      -     3.68       2.92       2.72      3.56       2.90
Apricots and Peaches          -         -        -       -    -    5.03  4.24   4.03         2.33       3.64       -          -
19743
Vegetables
Beans                        7.73      7.63     7.62   7.35 7.85  6.73  6.80    -             -          -         -          -
Potatoes                     1 41      1.142    1.45   1.53 2.07  1.88  1.36    -
Fruits
Table Apples                 2.96      2.62     2.96   2.95 2.78  1.90  2.75    -
Table Grapes                            -         -      -    -      -      -      -          _          _ 
Apricots and Peaches                    -         -      -    -    5.17  3.28    -
Source:  Bulletin of the Federa-L Office for Statistics, Cene Nos. 756 and 790
/1  Prices at which the cooperativ eS and other authorized organizations of labor buy the agricultural products from individual
75  Source:  Bulletin of Federal Office for Statistics, Cene Nos. 803 and 8L49                                                producers.
, 3 Provisional data of the Office for Statistics.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
API AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Raspberry Ex,orts, 1973
iDin. 'OOO)
F.R. of    Switzer-                                    Great
Austria     Netherlands     Germany      land      France     Italy       USA     Britain        Others
Raspberries                      9,338        1,967           875       6,525       --                   __         __            __
Raspberry Juice Concentrated      --                            2        --         677         320      1,311      --            159
Raspberries, frozen              5,461        4,884         9,842       7,611       888         237      1,341      __            __
Raspberry Pulp                   1,663        7,029           417         677     1,597          48        832    12.470           76
Total      (76,247)                    31,                3                  312                     3 34,3  12,470          __35
(% of total)  (100)         21.59        18.20         14.61       19.43      4.15       0.79        4.57     16.35         0.31
Structure of Strawberry Exports, 1973
(Din '000)
D. R. of                                     F.R. of    Switzer-             Great
Austria    Germany    France    Netherlands    Italy    Germany      land       USA     Britain       Others
Strawberry Juice                5,104       924      3,117          373       2,639    7,386        3,279     272        --             381
Strawberry, Frozen              6,479       --         914        5,801         121    4,587        3,540   2,565       3,o26           706
Strawberry Pulp                   478       --         213          160          --                   -- __     __
Total     (52,540)        1924                  1F2T         5,334       2,760   11,973        6,19   2,737         3,-26        1,5
(s of total) (100)         22.96      1.75       8.08         12.06       5.25    22.79       12.98    5.40          5.76          2.97
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade, Belgrade 1974.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Cherries Exports, 1973
*1                                                  (Din. '000)
F.R. of               Nether-    D. R. of                                  Great                    Aus-   Czecho-
Italy   Germany   Austria      lands      Germany   Poland   Belgium   France   Britain   Japan   USA   tralia  aLovakia   Others
Cherries                          30        143      _-          __         _-         --       -_                   -_       --       _     _         __
Sour Cherries                  9,525     1,782    2,042          232        --         --       --        --         --       --      _-     __        __         __
Sour Cherry Juice              3,113      2,902    3,456     1i,012         336        533       --       --         --       --      __     __        --         63
Sour Cherry and
Cherry Juice
Concentrated                3,625    11,617    3,794        1,640      2,211      2,272        65      359        414       18  3,859    330        --        371
Cherries Frozen                2,680    14,144    6,g49        4,559         -_        __        __     1,196      2,212       --   5,015    __        __         __
Cherry Pulp                    1,195        _        __          199         373       --        146      --         --        --                                  63
Sour Cherry Pulp               1,204      8.574    7,716       6.o16      1,977        --     1,945   11,128         558       366  2,677    --        564        675
Frozen Sour Cherries             536        600       80         273         __        _-       _         __         __        __     _ 
Total    (139,349)       21,908    39,76 2 24,042        13,931      4,897      2,805    2,136   12,683       3,184       384 11,551    330       564      1,172
(% of total) (100)        15.72     28.53    17.25        10.0        3.52       2.01     1.53      9.10       2.29     0.28   8.29   0.24       o.40      o.84
Source  Statistics of Foreign Trade Belgrade 1974.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Structure of Apple Exports 1973
(Din.'oGC)
Czechos-                    F.R. of   Switzer-
Austria   Bulgaria   lovakia   France   Italy   Germany   land           USA      Total
Apples                        7,115      423        1,013        28     64        145       --                 8,788
Apple Juice                     --         --         __         __     __                  172         --       172
Apple Juice, concentrated       979                                             1,928       133      8,164   11,204
Total                         8,o94      423        1,013       28      64      2,073       305      8 164   20,164
(% of Total)                     40 2      2.1          5.0        .1     .3       10.3       1.5       40.5   1Ou.0
Structure of Grape Exports 1973
Czechos-
Austria   lovakia   Denmark   Hungary   Poland       Total
Grapes, fresh                 6,413    6,758          44        604    1,255      15,074
(% of Total)                     42.5     44.8          .3         4.o      8.4      100.0
Structure of Peach Exports 1973
Czechos-   F.R. of   Great
Austria   lovakia    Germany   Britain    Total
Peaches                       1,085      341          52       284       1,762                                         X 
(% of Total)                     61.6     19.4         3.0       16.o      100.0
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade, Belgrade 1974.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Wine Exports 1973
(Din ' 0 0I0
Federal Republic  D. R. of                 Great                     C
of Germany         Germany     USSR        Britain    Switzerland   Czechoslovakia    Japan         USA       Canada    Others       Total
Bottled Wine                      2,391             1,203      59,777          305        3,707            1.993           504      7,913     7,090       3,882       78,765
Wine in Barrels                 100,757            21,525        --         24,743       12,663           17,243        17,402        --         --       9,228      203,561
Wine for Processing               _-               31,748        __                       4,846             --            --          --         --         425       37,019
Wine of Fermented Dried Grapes   1,635              --           --                                       --              3- 143                                       1,820
Total                        104,783                                    2,,7                           19,278        17,906      7,913     7,090      13,678      32,65
104,783   54,746      _____77      25048        21 26            _ 78_                     7,13       709       2            21_6
(As '( of Total)                  32.6              17.0        15.5         7.8           6.6              6.o           5.6        2.5       2.2         4.3       100.0
DevelopnKnt of Average Ecort
Prices for Wine 96317
Quality
Wine in           Wine in           Wine for
Barrels           Bottles           Processing
-(-------------Bin/kg)_------------------
1968           3.66              4.36               2.24
1969           3.43              7.91               2.35
i970           3.49              8.27               2.36
1971           3.59              7.33               2.36
1572           3.9.9              8.06              2.67
1973           4.81              9.77               2.93
15014-P        5.20             10.32               3.70
/    Includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Netherlands, Italy, Finland, Alorway, Sweden, Australia, Iran and Kenya.
/2  Estimates
Source: Statistics of Foreign Trade of SFR Yugoslavia, Belgrade 1974
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Investment Allocations by Republics and Provinces, and Sectors
IBRD Loan                             Total lnvestments                         Total Investments
Soc. Sec.    Priv. Sec.      Total       Soc. Sec.    Priv. Sec.       Total       Soc. Sec.    Priv. Sec.       Total
----------US$ '000 -------------- ---------- Us$ '000-                             ---------------Din '000-------------
Developed Republics/Provinces
Croatia                           6,130.1       4,070.5      10,200.6      15,325.3      10,176.3      25,501.6        260,530       172,997       433,527
Serbia Proper                      3,834.2      5,841.9       9,676.1       9,585.5      14,604.8      24,190.3        162,954       248,282       411,236
Slovenia                           1,712.0      1,289.4       3,001.4       4,280.0       3,223.5       7,503.5         72,760        54,800       127,560
Vojvodina                         10 587.6      2,969.       13 557.0      26 468 7       7 423.5   _a33892.2          442,968       126,200       576 168
Subtotal                            9                            1.1                               9,7._            94,212       602,279 
Underdeveloped Republics/
Provinces
B & H                              1,663.0      3,665.9       5,328.9       4,157.5       9,164.8      13,322.3         70,678       155,800       226,478
Kosovo                             1,094.0      1,333.7       2,427.7       2,735.0       3,334.2       6,069.2         46,495        56,682       103,177
Macedonia                          3,313.5       1,752.6       5,066.1      8,283.8       4,381.5      12,665.3        140,824        74,486       215,310
Montenegro                           240.7         501.5        742.2         601.8       1,253.8      1 855 6          10 231        21 313        31,544
Subtotal                       6,311.2       7,253.7      1             15,773.1      18,134.3      33,                                         576,509
Yugoslavia - Total                   28.575.       21,424.9    ,50.000.0       71,437.6     53,562.4      25, .         1214,440        9 560 
Investment Allocations by Components, Republics and Provinces, and Sectors
Bosnia and
Croatia            Serbia          Slovenia         Vojvodina        Herzegovina         Kosovo          Macedonia          Montenegro
Social  Private  Social  Private  Social  Private  Social Private  Social  Private  Social  Private  Social  Private  Social  Private
---------------- - -  --------Pe--                               ercent----------      -  -- -----____- ___--____._____________________
Livestock Production        44        50      43        71       60     100        25      50       82       67       75       75       25       50        55      50
Vegetable Production        10        18       8         5       --      --        15      10                         10       --       15       15        _-      20
Fruit Production             -_       24       -        18       --      --        --       5       --        --               15        -.      25        --
On-farm Mechanization        __       --       --        6       --      --        --      35       --       33       --       10                10        --      30
Land Reclamation            46         8      10                 40                30                                 10                40       --        30       -
Agro-Industries             -_        __       39        -                         30               18        _        5                20       --        15
Total                   100       100     100       100     100      100      100      100      100      100      100     100       100      100      100      100
May 1975



ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Implementation Schedule
Year
1              2                            Total
-Din  '000
Social Sector
Livestock Production             133,523        251,510          87,534         472,567
Vegetable Production              56,267          76,334           --           132,601
Land Reclamation                 152,241        214,124            --           366,365
Agro-Industries                  101,636         141,275           --           242 911
Subtotal                    443,667        683,243          87,5X3       T,214,44
Private Sector
Livestock                        238,076        337,408            --           575,)484
Vegetable                         30,134         42,435            --            72,569
Fruit                             29,255         61,587          27,805         118,647
Mechanization                     32,831         66,654          30,>'t)        130,045
Land Development                   5.731          8,0&0            --            138?.1
Subtotal                    31 6  64                       78 369
Total                      7792694       13199,407         i145899      2,125,O00
Percent of Total Investment          37              56              7             100
Cumulative                          77,964      i,979,10i       2,125,000            --
Iot*e: Price c            oritation:
A 40" pr-ce contingency has been estiniated, based on te follo w ng nr c.e increase
rates ap-,1ied cupiulatively:
Loca_  C___sts           *oreiZn Costs
l975                          2c                            2
1976                           i.j: 0,
1977                            15(I
1978                            3J
iTay 1975



ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements
(US$ :000)
IBRD Fiscal Year                                   Cunulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                      at end of Quarter
1 976
June      30, 1976                                         950
1977
September 30, 1976                                       2,950
Dec.ember 31, 1976                                       7,!400
trch      3i, 1977                                      12,200
June      30, 1977                                      17,600
978
September 30, 1977                                      23,00
December  31, 1977                                      29,700
14arch    31, 1978                                      34,950
June      30, a973                                      39,350
1979
September 30, 1976                                      42,950
December  31, 1978                                      45,950
March     31, 1979                                      48,250
June      30, 1979                                      50,000
May 19 75



ANNEX 7 (A)
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial and Institutional Aspects
A. Credit to Private Farmers
1.        Prior to the early 1970's, credit to the private agricultural sec-
tor was small relative to the amount available to the social sector. Recently,
more attention has been focused on the private sector, and investment credit
is increasingly available mostly through cooperative arrangements with social
sector organizations. Independent cooperatives or cooperative units estab-
lished within combinats and marketing enterprises have been organized to co-
operate with private farmers.
2.        In order to receive short-term or long-term credit from a bank
through the cooperative, the private farmer enters into a cooperation ar-
rangement with the cooperative under which he will be provided with inputs,
technical assistance and mechanized services, and his production will be pur-
chased. This arrangement may cover the whole production or only part of it
and the farmer is free to enter into such arrangements with several coopera-
tives for different products. However, private farmers usually prefer to
deal with only one cooperative entering into contracts covering their whole
production.
3.        The contract usually consists of a declaration of intent for 3 to
5 years with a specific contract for one year. The prices of the goods and
services supplied to the farmer and of the output purchased from him are
stipulated in the contract. In case of significant changes in the market
prices, each party may ask for renegotiation of prices so that an adjustment
is made, albeit with some delay.   However, since the margin for the coopera-
tive is fixed, any increase of the sales price is passed on to the private
farmers. The accounts are settled at the time the farmer delivers his output
to the cooperative.
4.        For investment credit, private farmers are expected to contribute
part of the investment cost (usually 20%, but sometimes up to 60%) from their
own resources, either in cash, kind or labor. The cooperative aggregates in-
vestment proposals of several private farmers and submits them to the bank.
The cooperative does not charge any spread on loans for on-lending to private



ANNEX 7 (A), (B)
Page 2
farmers, 1/ since it is compensated for its costs by the benefits it obtains
through the cooperation arrangements with farmers.
5.        These mechanisms are quite flexible and may vary from Republic to
Republic. However the general description above fits most of the existing
pattern of cooperation between the two sectors. This system of cooperation
with the private sector appears to be efficient and adequate where social
sector enterprises are interested in cooperation. However, the cooperation
system is less efficient or inadequate in the poor and mountainous areas
where the social sector is poorly represented.
6.        Direct Credit.  Private farmers may also obtain investment credit
directly from a bank. Direct credit has been of little importance, partly
because the funds available have been small, and partly because the conditions
of the loan were severe (usually the-borrower has to make a matching deposit
amounting to 30% to 60% of the value of the loan; the deposit is blocked and
bears no interest for the duration of the loan). Direct loans are mainly
used for the purchase of tractors and mechanical equipment. They are most
frequent where the cooperative system is not well developed.
B. The Legal, Financial and Operational Framework
The Banking Law
7.        The basic Federal Law under which Yugoslav banks operate is the
Banking Law of December 1971. Major provisions of this law are the following:
(i) A bank cannot be founded by fewer than 25 founders;
(ii) A bank must have a minimum of Din 50 million as founders
capital. No founder can have more than 10% of the total
voting rights;
(iii) The founders of a bank have an unlimited liability in re-
spect of the bank;
(iv) The bank's statutes prescribe the powers of the various
managing organs, the minimum conditions of joining and
withdrawals of founders, distribution and voting rights,
etc.;
(v) The Founders' Assembly consisting of representatives of
the founders is the governing body of the bank;
1/   The Macedonia Agro-Industries Project (894-YU) is an exception:  the
borrowing rate of cooperatives is 6.75% and their lending rate 8.25%.



ANNEX 7 (B)
Page 3
(vi)  The Assembly appoints the General Manager, his deputy and
members of the Executive Board and Credit Committee;
(vii)  The Assembly approves the bank's annual Business Policy,
its interest rates policy, and distribution of income to
founders;
(viii)  Banks are required to make a yearly appropriation to a
"Reserve Fund" out of income, of at least 0.5% of the
total loans outstanding at the year-end;
(ix)  Banks are required to write-off bad debts first against
income. Write offs against "Reserve Fund" are only possi-
ble to the extent that income is insufficient;
(x)  A bank will be liquidated if it is unable to meet its ob-
ligations for more than 6 months;
(xi)  In case of liquidation the deposits of individuals with the
bank have priority over all other creditors of the bank.
Other Federal Directives
8.        In addition to the Banking Law, the banks have to comply with di-
rectives issued by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and Federal Government.
The main directives which have a direct implication on the banks' financial
operations are:
(i)  Liquidity Requirement.  The banks have to maintain a certain
proportion of their deposits with the National Bank of
Yugoslavia (currently 30% of sight deposits and 3% of time
and savings deposits).
(ii)  Foreign Exchange.  Only authorized banks can carry out for-
eign exchange transactions ultimately controlled by the Na-
tional Bank. 1/ The sources of foreign exchange available
to enterprises for import financing are as follows:
(a) Liberalized (or Free) List. For the import of
items under the liberalized list (60% of all im-
ports) foreign exchange is freely obtainable from
the National Bank or the foreign exchange market.
1/   All banks under the Project are so authorized, except KBSO, a member
bank of UBZ.



ANNEX 7 (B)
Page 4
(b) Retention quotas, based on a percentage of the
enterprise's export earnings (between 5 and 100%)
plus a proportion (between 10 and 40%) of the
enterprise's depreciation charge against fixed
assets.
(c) Special quotas, established by the Federal Govern-
ment for specific projects and for the less developed
regions.
(d) Suppliers' Credits and Foreign Borrowings. Although
enterprises can contract for a foreign exchange loan,
most of the foreign resources of the bank's clients
come in the form of suppliers' credits guaranteed
by a bank. Prior approval is required by the Na-
tional Bank and is based on the applicant's ability
to repay the suppliers' credits and/or foreign loans
from its retention quotas or special quotas. Col-
lateral dinar deposits with the National Bank are
required both against foreign suppliers' credits and
borrowings to be posted by the enterprise or bank ob-
taining the credit. Deposit requirements against sup-
pliers credits vary with the term of credit. On for-
eign loans there is generally a non-interest bearing
deposit requirement of 75% of the loan amount contracted.
(e) Foreign Exchange Market. For short-term needs, the
banks can buy foreign exchange on behalf of their
clients in the foreign exchange market which meets
twice a week in Belgrade.
(f) The bulk of the commercial bank's foreign exchange
transactions are mainly done on behalf of their
clients who bear the foreign exchange risk.
(iii) All enterprises in Yugoslavia including banks are required to
write-off, against income, a certain percentage (25% in 1973)
of total uncollected interest outstanding for more than 90
days at the end of the year.
Accounting System
9.        The Yugoslav accounting system is substantially different from the
system of western capitalistic countries. In preparing periodic balance
sheets, statements of income and expenditure, and other financial reports,
the banks do not adhere strictly to generally accepted accounting principles.
The major differences in the system and the difficulties, in reconciling
these differences are summarized below:



ANNEX 7 (B)
Page 5
(i) The branches, being autonomous units prepare their own balance
sheets and income statements. In consolidating statements
for the bank as a whole, it may happen that the individual bal-
ance sheets items of all branches are added up without eliminat-
ing inter-branch entries.
(ii) Banks account separately for different types of sources and
application of funds. Detail accounts are maintained for
each loan made by the bank differentiated by purposes and/or
source of funds. No routine record is kept of total exposure
to any one borrower, and because of the large number of ac-
counts involved, compilation of such information is difficult,
except by obtaining information directly from the borrower.
(iii) The banks, operating as commercial banks to their clients,
observe strict confidentiality as regards financial informa-
tion received from their clients.
(iv) Some banks, and especially those in the less developed regions
do not attempt generally to make a periodic assessment of po-
tential losses within their loan portfolios.
Audits and Taxation
10.       As for all enterprises in Yugoslavia, annual statements are certi-
fied by the Social Accounting Service. In the work done by the SAS, the main
emphasis is on ensuring that the banks' and enterprises' operations are
within the various legal requirements, that the statements are in agree-
ment with records kept by the banks, and generally to ensure correct charges
of interest, allocations of net income, etc. There is no verification of the
existence of the various assets and liabilities to the banks and no opinion
on whether they are fairly stated. In addition to the SAS, the banks are sub-
ject to inspections by the National Bank of Yugoslavia who ensures, from time
to time, that the banks comply with the regulations on foreign-exchange
transactions and special deposit requirements.
11.       Under the new taxation system effective January 1973, the two
previous taxes were abolished and taxes are now levied on the interest re-
ceipts of the banks. As a result, taxes paid by the banks have decreased
significantly from 8% to 15% of Gross Income in 1971-72 to less than 3%.
For the majority of loans, a tax equal to 13% of the inteteest payments made
by the borrower to the bank is levied. Loans for permanent working capital
above 5 years have no tax levied. The taxes are passed on to the borrower
who pays the tax to the bank for repayment to the state. With the inclusion
of the tax payment the interest rates should be increased by a corresponding
amount, but in almost all cases the bank has reduced the interest rate so
that the global payment by the borrower would be the same. The tax payments
by borrowers to the bank do not appear in the financial statements of the
bank. The rate at which loans for investments under the Green Plan and loans
financed by IBRD under this Project would be taxed will be 2% of interest



ANNEX 7 (B)
Page 6
payments. Similarly lenders to the banks have to pay taxes on their interest
receipts, so they charge the banks accordingly. The banks pay taxes (13% of
their interest payments) to all Yugoslav business banks and to the Postal
Savings Bank. There are also minor taxes to be paid to the commune (land
use taxes) and Republican or Provincial taxes (especially in the less develop-
ed regions).
12.       Organization Structure.  The organization may vary from bank to
bank but common features are:
(a) Founders. No socio-political organization (i.e. commune,
province, republic) can become a Founder. An enterprise
(or a non-economic but non-governmental organization) is a
Founder of a branch of a bank and hereupon is a Founder of
the bank proper.
(b) Founders' Assembly is the highest governing body of a bank.
Each founder has only one vote, regardless of the amount of
his contribution, however a combinat may be represented for
example, by several of its units (plants, farms, etc.), each
with a vote, each being a founder.
(c) Executive Board is the chief management body of a bank
which is responsible for executing the policies approved
by the Founders' Assembly and other functions as deter-
mined in the bank's statutes including approval of loans
above the limit which the Credit Committee is authorized
to approve.
(d) Credit Committee of a bank generally consists of 15 to
20 members elected from among the founders and, sometimes
among the full-time employees of the bank. The only func-
tion of the Credit Committee is loan approval.
(e) Internal Control Committee is a committee elected by the
Founders' Assembly. It ensures that the provisions of the
law and of the statutes of the Bank are correctly enforced,
that funds are not misused and that functions are adequately
performed.
(f) Workers' Council is elected by the bank's workers and among
other functions it decides on appropriations of income dis-
tributed to workers and negotiates with the General Director
and the Executive Board on the distribution of income. As
part "owners" of the bank, they also ratify certain long-
term financial obligations, such as IBRD loans. The dis-
tribution of the annual income of a bank, after deduction
of taxes and appropriation to the reserve funds (for provi-
sion against losses), is governed by an annual agreement
between the employees and the Assembly.



ANNEX 7 (B), (C)
Page 7
(g) Organization. Banks have several branches within their
regions and accept deposits from customers and founders.
Branches of each bank are substantially autonomous units
with their own Founders' Assembly, Credit Boards and Chief
Executive Officers. The statutes of the banks, however,
usually limit the authority of the branches as regards
maximum amounts of loans which they may approve and/or
the sectors of the economy they may invest in. Large proj-
ects and projects involving foreign exchange financing gen-
erally must be approved by the Head Office. It should be
noted that branch offices are fairly autonomous entities
with a great deal of responsibilities in conducting their
business within the guidelines set by the head office.
Branch offices can separate themselves from a bank and
merge with another bank, on the decision of their founders.
(h) Management and Staff. The-General Manager of a bank is
elected for four years by the Founders' Assembly on the
basis of recommendations of a selection committee. Changes
of top managers are infrequent and professional competence
is the main criterior for appointment and promotion. Most
staff are economists, accountants, engineers and lawqyers.
C. The Bank of Vojvodina
Institutional Aspects
13.       Background.  The Bank of Vojvodina (VB) was founded at the end of
1961 as the State Bank of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina with assets
of 0.9 billion dinars. In 1968, it absorbed several smaller banks by merger.
It covers most of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and most economic or-
ganizations of the Province are among its founders.
14.       Founders.  As of February 15, 1974, there were 486 founders broken
down as follows:
Industrial enterprises                    143
Agricultural enterprises                  135
Other economic organizations              167
Non-economic organizations                 41
The biggest shareholder owns about 8% of the Founders' Fund, but has only 13
votes out of 486 (2.7%). Each branch has between 8 and 130 founders, but
only 2 branches out of 16 have more than 50 founders, while 11 have less
than 20.
15.       Organization.  The Executive Board has 32 members, the Credit Com-
mittee and the Workers' Council each have 16 members. VB has a Head Office
and 16 branches, of which two are outside of Vojvodina in Belgrade and Zagreb.
The total staff of the Head Office is about 215 people of which 85 with an



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 8
university education. Charts 1 and 2 show VB's organization for the Head
Office and for a typical branch office.
16.       Operating Policies.  VB has a Business Policy and other "decisions"
made by the Founders' Assembly to guide its operations each year. The maxi-
mum financial outstanding engagement of any customer should not excaed 30%
of the total outstanding loans of any branch office nor of the whole bank;
actually no borrower has more than 10% of the outstanding portfolio. In
addition to that, when a borrower has an outstanding debt to VB in excess
of 60 million dinars, the granting of new credits it may ask becomes the
responsibility of the Executive Board of VB. There is no centralized informa-
tion system to know in VB what is the outstanding debt of a given enterprise,
although the enterprise, when asking for a loan, has to indicate all its
liabilities. Since credits are basically granted by founders, an even distri-
bution of loans among enterprises may be expected, although the risk of exces-
sive demand of bank funds remains. The limit of indebtedness of the bank is
also fixed by the Founders' Assembly. In 1973 it was 5.3 billion dinars in
local currency and 0.2 billion dinars in foreign exchange and in 1974 it
became 7.6 billion in local currency and 1 billion in foreign exchange.
Appraisal Procedures
17.       VB discusses the proposed projects informally with its prospective
borrowers before they submit their credit applications. The credit applica-
tion of the borrower consists of an investment program usually in three
parts: technical, marketing and financial data. Feasibility studies to
prepare the investment program are sometimes retroactively financed by VB.
The credit application will usually go to a branch office and be studied there
unless its amount is above the free limit of the branch office (varying bet-
ween 1 and 15 million dinars depending on the branch office; branch offices
have also a limit on short term credits and a global upper limit). If the
credit is going to be in foreign exchange or if for any reason (e.g. technical
competence) the branch office staff is not able to process the application,
it is forwarded to the Head Office. In the Head Office, appraisal reports
are prepared by the responsible departments with the help of the advisers in
case of very complex projects. The Credit Committee of the Head Office decides
on projects below 30 million dinars and the Executive Board is responsible
above that limit. Projects submitted to the Credit Committee or the Executive
Board are almost always approved subject however to changes in the terms
and conditions of loans.
18.       Several weaknesses are apparent in VB appraisal reports:
(i) As far as technical data is concerned the appraisal reports
present the project as indicated in the credit application.
Normally no critical technical appraisal is made and the data
provided by the borrower is not verified. VB has neither the
staff nor the desire to check the borrower's assumptions. Only



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 9
in exceptional cases, in the case of unfamiliar enterprises is
a consultant hired to do some technical analysis. The effect
of employment is considered in the number of jobs created, but
no evaluation of labor versus capital intensive alternatives
is made. VB does not check if there is a possible overinvest-
ment. The production forecasts are not checked.
(ii) As far as marketing is concerned, no critical study is made
either. The data of the credit application, which must con-
tain some evidence of availability of raw materials and of
future sales is not checked. In the case of exportable pro-
duction, only an evidence of future purchase by the Yugoslav
export organization is needed, with no check by VB of real
export possibilities. In general it is asserted that there
are no marketing problems.
(iii)  The appraisal report is mainly concerned with the financial
analysis of the borrower, its credit worthiness and its
ability to repay. Creditworthiness is based on past finan-
cial standing. Only when the depreciation resources are not
sufficient to cover future repayments is a detailed study of
financial projections made, but normally no financial analysis
of the project, as usually understood is made.
19.       Approval and Supervision.  Loans are approved by the Credit Com-
mittee of the branch office if below their free limit, by the Credit Com-
r,ittee of the 1lead Office if above the branch limit (or in foreign exchange)
and below 30 million dinars, and by the Executive Board if above the limit
of the !ead Office Credit Comittee. In 1973, the Executive Board considered
20 projects- 10 loans, 7 guarantees (one in foreign exchange) and three write
offs. Once the loan is anproved a contract is signed by VB and the borrower
under some conditions of effectiveness, such as the availability of other
resources or the signing of a promissory note. Normally VB finances only 40%
of the total investment costs of a project, so 60% of the funds have to be
secured elsewhere. In case of cost overruns the borrower is responsible to
provide the additional funds. Supervision is directed systematically only to
projects under construction or to problem projects. Operating projects of
borrowers who repay their loans on schedule are not normally supervised. VB
being also a commercial bank (and therefore making short-term loans to its
clients) maintains close contact with its clients' operations and financial
position.
20.       Procurement and Disbursement.  VB ensures that its clients observe
the laws and regulations on procurement (advertising, bid opening, award,
etc.). It exchanges information on these matters with other agencies (SAS,
State Inspection Corps). Disbursements are made on contractors notes, bills
or other evidence of supply; large amounts are usually disbursed directly
to the suppliers.



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 10
Operations
21.       VB operates as a mixed commercial/investment bank.  With the ex-
ception of negligible equity investments in other banks and in one indus-
trial company investment financing is through long-term loans. VB also has
some special financing programs (livestock development, Federal Food Admin-
istration) and manages at no risk and on a commission basis funds on behalf
of socio-political entities (former state capital). VB is authorized to
deal in foreign exchange operations.
22.       Short-term loan disbursements are substantially the same as com-
mitments and time lag between the two is negligible (Table 1). Between 28%
and 33% of the local currency short-term loans approved have gone to agricul-
ture. Between 25 and 30% of the short-term loans. (including all those in for-
eign exchange) are granted by the Head Office of VB. Short-term loan port-
folio as a percentage of total assets has varied around 30%. It is estimated
that about 90% of all short-term loans go to founders of VB. The National
Bank rediscounts a certain percentage (25 to 50%) of some short term loans.
There have been no guarantees for short term loans.
23.       Long-Term Loans and Guarantees (Tables 1 and 2).  Long-term loan
approvals are usually closely followed by commitments, although some condi-
tions of effectiveness have sometimes to be met. Long term foreign exchange
loans amount to 3% to 7% of total long term loans, but there were none in 1973.
The foreign exchange costs of projects are usually financed through suppliers'
credits or with the own foreign exchange resources of the enterprises. Sup-
pliers' credits are often guaranteed by VB. More than half of the long term
loans are approved by the Head Office. More than 60% go to founders of VB
and about 80% are for investments in Vojvodina.
24.       Long-term loan approvals to agriculture account for an important
portion of total long-term loans, infrastructure (power, transportation) and
industry being the other important sectors.
Agriculture         Industry    Infrastructure         Other    Total
1971         17.6%               42.4%          20.0%             20.0%      100%
1972         35.6%               19.1%          20.8%             24.5%      100%
1973          28.6%              38.9%          14.0%             18.5%      100%
Long-term loan approvals to agriculture cannot be separated by investment
purpose but by type of borrowing organization:



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 11
1971             1972              1973
Number  Amount  Number  Amount  Number  Amount
-----_______--- Din million----
Social sector investments           57     106.0    94       262.6    99      322.7
Loans to cooperatives for
relending to private
farmers                          22       19.1    28        32.6    51       60.9
Direct loans to private
farmers                          14        0.6    77         3.6    70        2.9
Fisheries                            1        0.3
Total                         94      126.0   199      298.8   200       386.5
The average size of a loan to the social sector is therefore about 3.3 million
dinars, to a cooperative for relending 1.2 million dinars and to private
farmers directly 40,000 to 50,000 dinars. These direct loans to private
farmers (usually for less than 3 years) are mostly for tractors; they ac-
count for less than 1% of VB total long-term lending to agriculture. An
analysis of the long term loan approvals to agriculture by size and by ma-
turity follows (excluding direct loans to the private farmers):
Size                                  1971             1972              1973
In million Dinars                Number  Amount  Number  Amount  Number  Amount
0 -  1                             44      18.3    53        28.9    55      31.3
1 -  5                            30       60.8    59       188.0    76    197.1
5 - 10                              6      46.3    10        78.3    16    109.8
10 - 20                             _             _             _       3     45.4
Total                         80      125.4   122       295.2   150    383.6
Average                                 1.6               2.4             2.6
Maturity in Years
1 -  3                              6      23.1      6        8.2      4      7.7
3 -  5                             27      30.9    41        56.1    47      72.0
5 - 10                             47      71.4    75       230.9    99    303.9
Total                         80      125.4   122       295.2   150    383.6
Most of the loans were therefore rather small, below 5 million dinars and
their maturity was usually between 5 and 10 years.



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 12
Financial AsDects
25.       Short Term Resources.  As a general policy, the short-term re-
sources are used almost exclusively for short-term investments and long-term
resources for long-term investments. Although before the 1971 Banking Law,
short-term resources could not be used for long-term investments, since then,
the National Bank may allow prudent usage of short-term resources for long-
term investments, as is the case with VB. Most short-term resources are
deposits and borrowings from the National Bank through rediscount facilities.
There are about 100,000 deposits of which 10,000 in foreign exchange.
26.       Long-Term Resources.  The resource gap (excess of commitments over
available resources) appears low for VB (especially when compared with banks
in the less developed regions) since VB generally does not commit unsecured
resources, wqhile the banks in the less developed regions do so with respect
to the Federal Fund for Development. The absolute resource gap, however, is
important since many project applications are not approved by VB because of
resources constraints. Also VB provides guarantees for suppliers' credit,
but does not make provisions from its long-term resources against these
contingent liabilities. Guarantees amount to close to 50% of long term
loans but defaults have been minimal (about 2%) and the risk does not appear
significant.
27.       Profitability (Table 3).  VB like all Yugoslav banks, does not
consider profitability an essential measure of its efficiency and financial
performance. Certain key features can be noted:
(a) Gross income less direct financial expenses in 1973 was about
1.7% of average total assets, which is low and reflects both
the mixed nature and the non-profit orientation of VB.
(b) Administrative expenses in 1973 were about 0.6% of average
total assets, which is also low and shows strict control over
the administrative budget.
(c) "Dividends", i.e. cash payments to founders accounted for
2.6% of the Founders' Funds in 1971, 1.9% in 1972 and 4.5%
in 1973.
(d) On the other hand, allocation to the funds of the bank as a
working organization were high (17% to 23% of the funds) but
part of these allocations were in fact extra bonuses to em-
ployees of VB.
28.       Financial Position (Table 4).  Current ratios have been slightly
above 0.8:1 which is low, but not of concern since VB has to comply with
the liquidity requirements of the National Bank. The long-term debt/equity
ratio is high 4.6:1 in 1973, although not so high than in other Yugoslav
banks but it does not fully reflect the financial cushion available to



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 13
creditors since a substantial part of the debt comes from socio-political
funds. If debt to socio-political units is excluded, the long-term debt/
equity ratio becomes 3.1:1 which is adequate.
29.       Portfolio.  Since VB's financial statements have not been audited
according to internationally accepted standards, an evaluation of VB's quality
of investment portfolio and adequacy of provisions is difficult. Detailed
accounting records are maintained for each loan, but no aggregation of data
is made by borrower. This is not a problem for VB when appraising an in-
vestment project or supervising a borrower's financial position since VB
has access to the borrower's financial statement and the list of its debts.
It is, however, a problem in attempting to evaluate VB's financial position.
30.       VB periodically  reviews its portfolio to determine requirements
for provisions against potential losses. Each year, whole portfolio is re-
viewed, paying particular attention to loans to enterprises under legal
proceedings. As a result, an estimate of the amount to be set aside from
the income into a fund for write off provisions is made. If bankruptcy
occurs, and it is clear the funds will not be recovered, the amount to be
written off is estimated and the loan is cancelled and the fund for write
off provisions is decreased accordingly. These proposals have to be en-
dorsed by the Founders' Assembly. The compulsory reserve fund is a legal
requirement and is a fund of last resort; it is not normally used for write
offs. For 1972, loans for the following global amounts were examined:
Dinar     % of Total Loans
Millions       Outstanding
Foreign exchiange loans                          17.9            5.9%
Short term dinar loans
to individuals                                  1.8            0.7%
to enterprises                                 31.1            1.1%
to socio-political organizations                0                0
to banks                                        0                0
Long term dinar loans                             4.8            0.15%
Loans for housing and public utilities            0.6            0.08%
Total                                       56.2            0.7%
Actual Write Offs                                 8.1            0.1%
31.       In 1973, the total amounts of loans under investigation was 35 mil-
lion dinars (0.35% of total loans outstandings) and write offs amounted to
12 million dinars (guarantees made good amounted to 11.7 million dinars).
This proportion of loans under investigation is very low and seems to repre-
sent more the soundness of VB's portfolio than an insufficient coverage of
the investigation. A high proportion of foreign exchange loans are under
investigation.  Write offs were actually as follows (Table 6):



ANNEX 7 (C)
Page 14
1971            1972             1973
Amount (million dinars)                 2.1             8.1             12.0
% of total loans outstanding           0.02             0.09             0.12
% of gross income                      0.58             1.62             1.98
% of reserve funds                      3               8                8
Legal requirements for allocation to the reserve funds are an annual provi-
sion of 0.5% of total loans outstanding until the reserve funds reach 5% of
outstanding loans. In 1973, they amounted to 148.9 million dinars or 1.5%
of loans outstanding (2.2% of long term loans), that is more than 12 times
the amounts written off.
32.       At year end 1973, 41 borrowers had loans in arrears (all in the
social sector) out of more than 1,000-borrowing enterprises. The total
arrears (62.2 million dinars) all were for less than one year and accounted
for only 0.6% of total loans outstanding (0.9% of investment portfolio).
The distribution was: less than 3 months, 55.3 million; 3 to 6 months,
5.3 million and 6 to 12 months 1.5 million. Reschedulings amounted in 1973
to 1.2 million dinars. It should be noted that due to inefficiencies in
VB's accounting system, data on portfolio affected by arrears is incomplete
and a judgment on VB's exposure to bad borrowers could be made only after
an audit has been performed.
33.        Creditworthiness of VB has to be evaluated in taking in account
the specificity of the Yugoslav banking system. Along conventional lines,
it is simply not possible, pending an audit, to establish the creditworthi-
ness of VB as an independent organization. In fact in the Yugoslav environ-
ment, IBRD's normal criteria of creditworthiness have a limited meaning.
However, for the reasons given below, VB should be in a position to meet
its obligations to IBRD.
(i) The Founders have unlimited liability toward VB's obligations.
Creditors of VB have legal recourse to all assets of Founders.
(ii)  VB  is closely integrated with the economy of Vojvodina and its
liquidation is inconceivable.
(iii)  VB has qualified and experienced management and staff.  Its
financial management has been adequate with no significant
losses, arrears have been low, and obligations have been met
satisfactorily. VB loan portfolio appears sound, and adequate
provisions for risk are made.
(iv)  The long-term debt/equity ratio of 4.6:1 (or 3.1:1 when ex-
cluding long-term debt to socio-political entities) is
satisfactory.



ANNEX 7 (C), (D)
Page 15
Forecasts
34.       At present, investments planning is limited to one year and it
is very difficult to obtain longer forecasts. Data presented here are based
on inadequate information and the margin of errors is probably higher than
usual. Forecasts are at best rough and based on inadequate information and
defective assumptions. Short-te-a loans are expected to increase by 13% to
20% per year, of which 35% to 40, will go to agriculture. Long-term loans
commitments will actually decrease in 1975, but will grow at about 12% per
year. Long-term loans to agriculture will still account for about 25% of
total long-term loans. Guarantees will decrease in 1974, but otherwise
remain at about the same amount of 600 to 650 million dinars, of which about
15% for agriculture (Table 7). On the basis of the estimated commitments
of short and long-term loans, a forecast of resources can be drawn (Table 8)
showing an increase of the over-commitment of VB over the next five years.
However, less and less long-term loans will have to be financed with short-
term resources. The forecast balance sheet (Table 9) indicates a yearly
growth rate of total assets declining from 17% in 1974 to 7% in 1978. The
relative importance of long-term assets declines below 50%. On the liabili-
ties side, the short-term borrowings decrease almost three times between 1974
and 1978. The current ratio increases to 1:1 and the long-term debt/equity
ratio increases to 6.5:1. It was not possible on the basis of available
data to project a complete income and expenses statements but the profits
forecasts are satisfactory (Table 9). Overall the financial position of
VB will remain satisfactory.
D. The Participating Banks
General
35.       Only one bank from each Republic and Autonomous Province will par-
ticipate under the project, namely:
Croatia: Udruzena Banka Zagreb (UBZ)
Serbia:   Beogradska Banka (BB)
Slovenia: Ljubljanska Banka (LB)
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Privedna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) 1/
Kosovo: Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) 1/
Macedonia: Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) 1/
Montenegro: Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) 1/
and VB will function as a participating bank (PB) for Vojvodina. UBZ
(Croatia) although a bank by legal definition can best be described as an
1/   These four banks, as recipients of the Industrial Line of Credit are
described in more detail in the Report: Appraisal of an Industrial
Credit Project, No. 364a-YU.



ANNEX 7 (D)
Page 16
institutionalized banking consortium of five member banks (Komunalna Banka
i Stedionica Osijek (KBSO)), Rijecka Banka (RB), Investiciono Komercijalna
Banka Split (IKBS), Kreditna Banka Zagreb (KBZ) and Privredna Banka u Zagrebu
(PBZ)).
36.       These eight banks in terms of total assets are among the first
eleven banks in the country, together with the Yugoslav Investmen- Bank,
the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade (Jugobanka) and the Yugoslav Agricul-
tural Bank, which are all former federal banks, and their total assets ac-
count for 70% to 75% of the total assets of all the existing Yugoslav busi-
ness banks. Four of the PBs have a quasi monopoly in their Republic or
Province. Of the participating banks, only LB, and to a lesser extent BB
perform banking activities all over Yugoslavia.
Institutional Aspects
37.       The organization of the participating banks is conform to the
general description given in Part B of this Annex. Each of the five members
banks of UBZ maintains its own autonomy, but when the resources of one mem-
ber bank (financial or staff) are insufficient for a project, the member bank
may ask UBZ to intervene and all are jointly and severally liable for UBZ
operations. The staff of UBZ-central is very small (30 people) and its func-
tion is mostly one of policy and of coordination while the staff of the mem-
ber banks is doing the actual loan administration. The financial statements
of UBZ are not consolidated in the proper sense of the term and there seems
to be a great deal of double counting, since transactions between member
banks are not cancelled out. Each member bank accounts for about: KBSO -
5%, RB - 15%, IKBS - 17%, KBZ - 28%, and PBZ - 35% of the total assets of
UBZ. Each bank has branches in its own region and outside, between 7 branches
(IBT) and 150 (UBZ). Staff is large in all banks from 400 in IBT to 4600 in
BB. In each of the PB the unit responsible for handling long-term loans to
agriculture will be responsible for investment subloans under the project
(in the case of SBS, it will be the same department responsible for the
Macedonia Agro-industries Project); in each of these units there are several
agronomists and agricultural engineers, in addition to economists, financial
analysts and sometimes lawyers. In UBZ, one staff member of UBZ central
will coordinate the activities of the agricultural department in the five
member banks. Procedures of loan appraisal and administration in the par-
ticipating banks are quite similar to procedures in VB.
Operations
38.       All the PBs are mixed commercial/investment banks and all except
KBSO, a member of UBZ, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange operations.
Data on short-term loans are limited and not entirely reliable and are there-
fore not included here.
39.       Long-Term Loans and Guarantees.  Table 10 gives a summary of long-
term loans of each PB for 1972-73. Long-term foreign exchange loans amount



ANNEX 7 (D)
Page 17
to less than 5% of total long-term loans. Applications are substantially
higher than commitments in the less developed regions, showing the shortage
of resources to meet demands. The share of commitments for agricultural in-
vestments in total loans made varies:
UBZ                  10.4%
BB                    4.3%
LB                    3.8% - 8.9%
VB                   28%   - 37%
PBS                   1.6% - 2.8%
KBP                  12.2% - 12.8%
SBS                   5.5%
IBT                   1.3%
Average               7%   - 7.4%
A measuire of the importance of these eight banks is that in 1972 they con-
tributed (disbursements) 17.55 billion to investments in Yugoslavia out of
a total for all banks of 20.8 billion (85%), and in agricultural investments
1.2 billion out of 1.25 billion (96%).
40.       Table 10 indicates guarantees made by the banks, mostly in foreign
exchange, with relatively few of them being given for agriculture.
Financial Aspects
41.       Short-Term Resources.  Short-term resources are essentially used
for short-term investments, but prudent usage for long-term investments is
also allowed under the control of the National Bank. All the banks in the
developed regions and PBS were doing so at the end of 1973, sometimes to a
large extent as in the case of BB using 43% of its short-term resources for
long-term investments. Short-term loan portfolios as a percentage of total
a3sets vary between 16% (KBP) and 34% (LB).
42.       Long-Term Resources.  The resource gap (excess of commitments over
available resources) is fairly high in absolute terms and as a percentage of
total available long-term resources. Part of the long-term disbursements
come from short-term resources. In the less developed regions, the banks
commit the expected but unsecured resources of the Federal Fund for Devel-
opment; they can estimate quite accurately the amount they will receive.
There is no risk in doing so and overcommitments are only technical. The
use of short-term resources for long-term investments is high in the developed
regions but is not of concern since it is closely controlled by the National
Bank. The overall resource position of BB at the end of 1973 was negative
but it was only a temporary situation, which was promptly corrected. The
absolute resource gap is higher since many project applications are not
authorized by the banks because of lack of resources. Also the banks guar-
antee suppliers' and other credits, but do not make provisions from their
long-term resources against these contingent liabilities. Defaults however



ANNEX 7 (D)
Page 18
have been minimal and the risk does not appear significant. Investment port-
folio as a percentage of total assets vary between 50% (LB) and 73% (KBP).
LB appears as the most commercially oriented and KBP as the most investment
oriented of all the banks (Table 5).
43.       Profitability (Table 3).  Although the banks do not try to maximize
profits and do not consider profitability an essential measure of their effi-
ciency and financial performance, certain key features can be noted from their
income statement:
(a)  Gross income less direct financial expenses in 1973 was between
1.4% and 1.7% of the average total assets, which is low and re-
flects both their mixed nature and their non-profit orientation.
The spread was in general higher for the more commercially
oriented banks and lower for the more investment oriented
banks. The spread was higher in the previous years (1.8% to
2.2%) since taxes paid by the banks were higher (0.5% to 0.7%
of average total assets);
(b)  Administrative expenses have been between 0.3% (SBS) and
0.7% (UBZ, LB) of average total assets. This is low and
shows strict control over the administrative budget;
(c)  Net income has been 0.3% to 0.6% of average total assets;
(d)  Allocation to the Founders' Funds was between 1.5% (BB) and
4.5% (VB) of the Funds, it was either distributed as cash
dividends or used to increase the Founders' Funds.
44.       Financial Position (Table 4).  Current ratios are between 0.63:1
(BB) and 1.31:1 (IBT). They are of course lower for those banks that use
short-term resources for long-term investments (all have current ratio below
1:1). But since the banks comply with liquidity requirements of the National
Bank, low current ratios are not of concern. The IBT current ratio is too
high and shows use of long-term resources for short-term investments. The
long-term debt/equity ratios are between 3.4:1 (UBZ) and 11.5:1 (KBP and
IBT). They are higher in the less developed regions but a substantial part
of the debt comes from socio-political entities which are unlikely to force
liquidation in case of financial crisis. If this debt is excluded, the ratio
is between 1.3:1 (KBP) and 5.3:1 (IBT), which is adequate.
45.       Portfolio.  Financial statements are certified by the SAS but not
audited according to internationally accepted standards, as explained in para
10. It is therefore difficult to evaluate the quality of the investment port-
folio of the banks and the adequacy of their provisions. Only some of the
banks review periodically their portfolios to determine requirements for pro-
visions against potential losses. Others (including those in the less de-
veloped regions) make annual appropriations out of income solely on the
basis of legal requirements. Funds for provisions against losses accounted



ANNEX 7 (D), (E)
Page 19
for 1.7% (UBZ, BB) to 2.5% (IBT) of the investment portfolio at the end of
1973 and yearly allocation to these funds out of income accounted for 5.8%
(BB) to 13.2% (KBP) of Gross Income.
46.       Arrears account for 0.6~' (UBZ, IBT) to 1.7% (SBS) of the invest-
ment portfolio. They were covered in all cases by provisions against losses.
In any case data on portfolio affected by arrears are incomplete and a judg-
ment on the banks' exposure to bad borrowers cannot be made before a more
thorough review is possible as a result of an audit. There is very little
rescheduling. Write offs and payments on guarantees were also negligible.
47.       Repayment Ability.  It is not intended - and probably not possible -
to establish the creditworthiness of the participating banks as independent
organizations. However, for the reasons given below, it is likely that they
will be able to meet their obligations to VB.
(a) The banks and the governments of their Republics and Provinces
have entered into an agreement under the Green Plan to imple-
ment this project and it is unlikely that the banks would be
allowed to default on their loans from VB without strong cor-
rective action by the Republican and Provincial Governments.
(b) The Founders have unlimited liability toward the banks' ob-
ligations. Creditors of the banks have legal recourse to
all assets of Founders.
(c)  The banks have qualified and experienced management and staff
although some of the banks in the less developed regions (KBP
and IBT) appear less solid in this respect than the others.
Their financial management has been adequate with no signif-
icant losses, arrears have been manageable, obligations have
been met satisfactorily and long-term debt/equity ratios, when
excluding debt from socio-political entities, are adequate.
(d) The banks are closely integrated with the economy of their
region and their liquidation is inconceivable.
E. Availability of Dinar Funds
48.       Since the IBRD loan of 850 million dinars would cover 40% of the
project investment costs, PBs and subborrowers would provide the balance,
728.6 million and 546.4 million dinars respectively.
49.       Investors' Contributions.  Subborrowers, in addition to their owqn
resources, would have access to premiums provided from Federal, Republic and
Provincial budgets for priority investments in agriculture (para 16, Annex II).
It is expected that for the years 1975-80, resources available from these funds



ANNEX 7 (E)
Page 20
to the social sector would be about 2.2 billion dinars and about 890 million
dinars to the private sector. These amounts would be sufficient to cover
investors' contributions under the project.
50.       Counterpart Funds.  The counterpart funds would be provided by the
PBs from their own resources supplemented by special savings schemes, and
state funds.
51.       PBs resources for investments are provided from long-term deposits,
borrowing, in some cases short-term funds within the liquidity requirements
of the National Bank and Special saving schemes. In some Republics and Prov-
inces, a special investment fund for long-term loans to private farmers at
subsidized lending rates has been established. 1/ For loans to the social
sector, commercial interest rates (10 to 12%) are usually applied, but in some
Republics and Provinces, the rates are sometimes subsidized by state budgets
for priority agriculture investments and other governments have plans to do
likewise. Banks are expected to provide about 2.5 billion dinars per year
during 1975-80 for investments in agriculture.
52.       State funds may come from three different sources:
(i)  the former state capital funds, i.e. repayments of loans made
formerly from the State capital and now transferred to the
banks as managed funds, can be relent by the banks on a re-
volving basis. The cost of these funds to the banks is nil.
The funds going to agriculture will be about 650 million
Dinars per year for 1975-80;
(ii)  funds from the Republican or Provincial budget are usually
earmarked for a given commodity (livestock, vineyards,
tobacco) or for underdeveloped regions within the Republic
or Province. These funds are lent to the banks at between
3% and 5%. They will amount to about 800 million Dinars per
year for 1975-80;
(iii)  in the less developed regions, the Federal Fund for Development
is the main source of investment funds; it is lent to the banks
at 4%, except in Kosovo (3%). The part of the Federal Fund
allocated to agriculture will amount to about 320 million
Dinars per year for 1975-80.
1/   Lending rates to private farmers:
Croatia              6%         Bosnia-Herzegovina         4%
Serbia           4.5%-5%        Kosovo                   3%-4%
Slovenia             3%         Macedonia              4.5%-6%
Vojvodina            6%         Montenegro              4%-5%



ANNEX 7 (E), (F)
Page 21
53.       These funds will be sufficient to provide counterpart funds under
the project. The cost of these funds to the banks bears little relation to
the cost of capital, and subsidies from state budgets may vary during the
next few years.
F. Organizational and Staff Reinforcement Program
54.       In view of the lack of familiarity of the staff of VB and the PBs
with investment appraisal techniques used for IBRD credit projects and manage-
ment of a nationwide agricultural credit system, it would be necessary for
VB to reinforce its staff by undertaking a comprehensive organizational and
staff reinforcement program whose functions will be to:
(a)  assist VB's management and staff on subproject appraisal,
according to appropriate standards, project supervision and
monitoring, ex post economic evaluation and other matters
pertaining to the Project. Particular attention should be
given to the methodological aspects of subproject appraisal
such as financial, market and economic analysis, cash flow
and rate of return calculation;
(b) work closely with the management and staff of the PBs in
respect of point (a) above and assist in the coordination
process between VB and PBs; including assistance in establish-
ing VB's procedures for reviewing subprojects approved by
PBs, PB reimbursement procedures and assistance in procurement
procedures;
(c) train the staff of VB and of the PBs in appraisal methods,
including continuous on-the-job training, and, as deemed
necessary, prepare training material and instruction manuals
for these purposes.
55.       Experts and staff needed for this program would be economists and
credit specialists with expertise suitable to perform the above tasks; at
least one of the persons to be recruited should have had experience with
agricultural credit operations involving a national program in a developing
country. To the extent possible the staff in charge of carrying out these
functions shall be part of the Project Operations Department.
56.       VB would propose to the Bank for its acceptance, a final program
outline with details on the number, type, timing, and period of employment of
persons to be recruited. Once the program is agreed upon, VB would keep the
Bank informed on the progress and specifics of implementation including the
actual qualifications of the persons recruited, and the Bank would assist in
the training of VB staff, who, in turn, would be responsible for training
the staff of the PBs.



ANNEX 7 (G)
Page 22
G. Interest Rates Study
57.       Since commercial banks are not independent profit maximizing in-
stitutions, the credit and interest policy is controlled by the founders,
mainly borrowing enterprises, which tends to bias interest-rate policy down-
wards. Because of the inflationary situation, this implies a negative or
low real interest rate structure, which has several distortive influences:
(i) it fuels excessive investment demand, making control of
inflation more difficult;
(ii)  it encourages waste of capital in all its uses;
(iii)  it adversely affects the quantity and quality of financial
savings and investment;
(iv)  it creates scope for nonprice rationing of credit and for
arbitrary external intervention in credit decision.
58.       Also the non-uniformity of interest rates across the country and
the latitude for each Republic and Province and sometimes each commune to
subsidize interest rates for particular investments may run counter to the
general policy objectives of the couatry. For example in agriculture (which
is one of the sectors with nationwide planning) regional and local interest
schemes may be counter productive with respect to the Green Plan targets.
59.       Therefore a study will be undertaken to analyze the present inter-
est rate structure for the agricultural sector, and to determine whether
uniform interest rates would be effective and feasible. The study would
consist of three parts:
(a) an evaluation of the impact of the existing agricultural er
credit interest rates structure on:
(i) investment demand and inflation;
(ii) the choice of production techniques and capacity
utilization;
(iii) the quantity and quality of financial savings and
investment of agricultural social sector enterprises
and private farmers;
(iv) rationing of credit;
(v) the effect of non-uniform interest rates between
agricultural subsectors and investors, and the im-
plications for the realization of the objectives of
the "Green Plan", and



ANNEX 7 (G)
Page 23
(vi) the adequacy of provisions for covering the
administrative costs and risks of agricultural
credit.
(b) a review of other factors affecting the interest rate
structure, such as government policies, the banking structure
and viewpoints of agricultural social sector enterprises and
of private farmers.
(c) in the light of the findings of parts (a) and (b), a deter-
mination of whether a uniform interest rate system is both
desirable and feasible.
61.       In carrying out this study, relevant previous and on-going studies
should be fully taken into account. -VB would be responsible for carrying
out this study under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and for com-
pleting it within one year of loan signing. It would consult with the Bank
on the staffing and timing of arrangements for the study.






ANNEX 7
APPRAISA, OF                                                                Chart 2
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
BANK OF VOJVODINA
HEAD OFFICE ORGANIZATION CHART
|Founders' Assembly
|   xecuiv Board 
| Credit Committee       i                         nternal Control Committee|
|       General Manager  M  _3_c_                        1
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ad rrs  dvisor
investment CreditDDept.  BusinessMOperations_Dept.
IBRu D O pert.Crepnet  et
M on R9o75r's dept.                      Foreign Opents          l                                                        Depti for Operations with- l
-|  IneBank Operations Dept.   lF| oreinrespourens Dept.    l                  -           conigDp.              l    -              ea  et 
Mav 1975                                                                                                                              World Bank-9400






APPRAISAL OF
ANNEX 7
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                       Chart 2
YUGOSLAVIA
BANK OF VOJVODINA
BRANCH OFFICE ORGANIZATION CHART
HEAD OFFICE
-             -         i _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _                     Founders' Assembly
U I
I                                             Executive B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oard
BRANYCH OFFICE
Fo.rrers' Meet.ng                                                   C      o irnal Control Committee
Founders' Board                                                                               General Manage                  Worr 
H~~~
Credit Committees                1
-for investment loans to enterprises .   B                                         I
-for short-term loans to enterprises                                               |
-for loans te individuals                                                          I
I
Workers                Branch Manager           _            _ _               ua c; LL ;   L  - g f Wa - U g m r aI   _
95lncil
De.t Branch Managers|
May 19,75                                                                                                                                      World Bank-9399






APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Bank of Vojvodina                                                                        Bank of Vojvodina
Short Term Loans 1971-73                                                                 Long Term Loans 1971-73
(Million Dinara)                                                                         (Million Dinara)
1971               1972                  1973                                   1971                1972               1973
Asp1ications        Tetal    Aeric.    Total     Agric.    'ot l    Aeric.                          Total    Agric.    Total    AgEric.   Total       Agric.
Local Currency   2370.7   668.4    3148.9    958.5        3452.2    1193.1                        825.0    153.0      926.0    377.2    1584.7      457.8
Foreign Exchange   74.7      0         76.5      0          0           0                          18.3      0         70.6      0         0          0
Total      2445.4   66.4    3225.4                 3452.2    1193.1              84    13.0                    97       377.2    158 4.7     457.8
Approvals
Local Currency   2004.8   571.1    2662.6    820.4        2944.9      978.0                       699.2    126.0      784.6   298.8    1353.5       366.5
Foreign Exchange   62.5      0         56.5      0          0           0                           18.3      0        55-4      0          0         0
Total      2067.2   571.1     2719.1    820.4      2944.9                                   717.5    12.0       IE 2              1353.5
Commitments
Local Currency   1844.8   521.2    2450.7    741.3        2915.4      948.1                       644.2    120.6      720.8    288.4    1302.5      362.8
Foreign iSxchange   62.5     0         56.5    0o            0          0                           18.3      0        55.4      o          o         0
Total      1907.3   521.2    2507.2   741.3        2915.4      948.1                        662.5   12006      776.2    288.4   1302.5       362.8
Disbursements
Local Currency   1764.0   481.0    2342.9   681.9         2018.0      709.7                       545.4   114.7       611.8    274.5    1220.5      236.1
Foreign, Exchange   62.5     0         56.$      0           0          0                          18.3       0        55.4      0          1.4        0
Total      1826.5   481.0    2399.4   681.9        2018.0      709.7                        533.7    114.7     667.2    274.5    1221.9       236.1
Repayments
Local Currency   1430.1   386.4    1890.3   537.3         1348.3      289.7                        318.5     81.4     432.9    103.9      448.2     116.0
Foreign Exchange    30.8     0         26.4      0           2-1 0                                  15.3      0                   0         1.6        0
Total      14I9138916.47   537.3                   1351.0      289.7                        333.8      1       453.2    103.9       4    49.8
Average size of
approved loan
Local Currency       7.7     3.8        8.9      4.5         8.6        5.0                          4.5      1.6       4.0       2.4       3.6        2.6
Foreign Exchange     7.8      -        11.3        -          -          _                           2.3       -         9.2       -         -          -
Total         7.7     3g           o    4.56                     5.0                          4.3    -T-W         4.2      2.4        3.6
May 1975                                                                                                                                                Sp
F 



ANNEX 7
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Bank of Vojvodina
Guarantees for Long Term Loans 1971-73
(Million Dinars)
1971                1972                1973
Total    Agric.    Total    Agric.   Total         Aric.
Applications
Local Currency    241.4    102.8       242.0    133.5    396.1        23.1
Foreign Exchange   64.4        7.3     203.8       8.2    283.7         2.4
Total      305.8    T110.      445 -      rTT- 7    6798 1.   25.5
:Eprovals
Local Cur-ency    252.4       95.8     207.8    113.7    343.0        21.6
Foreign Exchange   35.0        7.3     168.3       8.2    283.7         2.4
Total      287.4    7T.1    776.1   121.9          267.7       24.0
Disbursements Li
Local Currency       0         0          0        0         0          0
Foreign Exchange    9.3        1.5        8.6       4.2     11.7        1.6
Total        9.3       1.5                4T.2      11.7
Repayments
Local Currency        0        0          0        0         0          0
Foreign Exchange      3.7      0          7.0      4.0      13.6        2.7
Total        4T                                     13.
Average size of
approval guarantee
Local Currency        NA       3.7        NA        3.7      NA         1.8
Foreign Exchange      NA       7.3        NA        2.7      NA         o.6
Total-                 3.8        NA       -3.6      NA         1-
/1 Payments on guarantees
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
All AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YTUGOSLAVIA
All BaSos
Statements of Income and Aloendituces 1972-73
(Million ICoro)
SEC                BB                  IB                    VR                       FBD                     KBP                      SRD                     IBT
1972    1973       1972       7         192    1973       1971  1972              19731    12      1973    1221   1972 -1973    121   12                     971   1972  197
INCOME
Interest                                   2,427.5  2,762.3   2,140.6  2,858.3    1,535.5  2,169.5    329.5  445.4  549.9      902.0  1,174.2  1,45o.4   224.9  326.2  326.3   861.1  1,025.7  1,249.9  248.1  285.9 336.4
Fees, commission and other charges           180.3   191.1      123.4   163.5       157.7   138.2      21.1  46.9  36.3        49.4    72.9   119.9    6.6  19.3  21.2    19.6    82.0    59.5    3.6   11.4  20.8
OtherS                                       129*l   660.6      182.1   28          126.8     9         8.    9.2  18.8         35.1    23.9     -        6.2   7.6 2           16.2    25.2   121         0.4   18.   14.4
Ohross Encase                 20.6h,14,0                    2.4. 3.310:'    1,820.0  2f347a      3tO59.7   0 501  53                   97 12371.07   75Xi    %71  1,1328  1,411.4  25; 115.73g
FCRAJ4NCIAL 85PENc3ES
Intereot charges                           1,676.8  2,072.6    1,529.7  2,197.5     959.4  1,503.5    206.9  280.1  3R3.0      573.3   759.2  1,056.6    91.6  201.5  202.1    556.1   695.2    885.5  159.0  187.7  255.6
0tben7                                       281.3   712.7      195,5   324.0       105.2    76.0       1.5  20.6  31.8          2.8    29.2    35.6      0.8   9.8  47.7        1.2    48.7    159.2      3 .2  28.1   26.8
Subtotal:  Lirect Financial Expenses  j455821                     57177      106518  177W        515467i1   r      TE 8                        7          1211.2  5157       U       flfl1rE 1357  .1i.  55517i 8
D'ebts uritten off             9.418.4                3t4.         5    t11.1    -t717! Th S   0,5t86 ,              12.0                                                                                2 --:8  -5- -1, -  57 2.'  -  5-  -
tr.vision aainst losses                    1768  214,7          1262191.5           1185.h   15     .4        36.1 445 62.8               1.   120.7   18.6  43.0   48.4 62.4. 114.6 20.4   25.8 _32.2
Total Financial Expenses 32.113                           (7850  2737.7  1.19 .2  1,779.         2.4  20    3               2      89    121.0 111.0  79   29.8  8.                      1.163. 9      .72  281.  316.1
rses Encame loss Financial Expenses           666.4   592.6       657.1   573.0       623.8   567.8    124.1  1563  133.6        246,    381.7    3%.    126.7  F,81   6S4    276.1    293.     267.4   66.6   74.1   55.4
AI84CNISTRATIVE EXPEICESZ
Salaries  and personnel eXPenses             191.4   235.3      146.5   188.3       136.2    177.5     24.8  37.3  51.5         73.3    89.9    108.5   16.8  15.6  22.1        48.9    57.6      55.9   12.7  15.6   17.5
Depreciattos                                  21.2    26.9       13.5    17.4        36.7    46.9       1.6    2.8    4.5     )51.3        5.9    10.0    0.5   0.9   2.2        2.8      3.4      4.9    0.7    1.0    1.1
Ether                                        99    112.         72.0    881.4       66.o    89.6      11.7  17.2  18.8       )         69.6    66.5    3.6   6.9 0 .2           4.1     14.5622           0.4 7   .2 5 3.2
Total Fdmini strative Expense3 311.8              5                 21          3       310       157             7170  Z-3   52                                52 9                                 2Th2   9      27.1
INCOME RE7SE TAXES                            354.6   217.9       525.0   278.9       384.9   253.8      85.9  1o4.1   68.8      222,3   216.3    171.4  106.3  75.8  38.0   219.7   227.6    187.3   46.2   51.3   28.5
Taxes                                          225.6     0.5      325.0        80.2    250.5    0.1      SO.3   68.7    0.2       100.7   125.1 2736        36.6    46.9  11.2   107.1    138.?     42.6   31a"  6  974    7.3
NIET INCONZ                                    129.0   217.4      101 .0  :197  134    2 53.7           2:2  321:   68.-6       121.6    912- 131.    69.  Z7*2  26.            112.6     89.5   35 j1   14.3   1 1.9   21.1
DISTRIi3UTED TO
Founders Funds                               57.5    91.7        20.2    65.8        46.4    79.3      22.8  16.7   40.8        72.5    43.5    50.8   59.1   20.5   10.8       90.1    48.6    63.0    5.7   2.46    9.8
FOnde of the Rank                             81.6   125,7       8.8   133.0         89.o   174.5       12.7  18.7  27.8        49.1    57.7    6O.S   10.6   7.5  15.2    22.5    40.9    81.7            8 6    9.6   11.3
RATI03
roME IncoBse/ATA  /34 6.9                                                    5.9                5.2              5.5   5.5                  5.5     5.3            5.7    4.3               5.8      6.2            5.8    5.9
Direct Financial Expenses/ATA                           5,34,                                 1:               1:2                       2 45 33 2              2.8   2.938                      h5                      .
Spread                                   15                           1.6                 17              2.2  1.7                   2.1      1.6            1.9   1.                3.03 1.                    4   1.h
Debts urittsn off/ATA                                  N                   R                   0.1             0.1    021                 N        N              N       -                N       N               -    N
NrsviNion against losses/ATA                            0,4                0.3                70.3             0.4   0.4                  0.2      965            0.6   o.6                0.95    05.5    0.5
Sense Encase less Financial Expenses/ATA           1.1                1.0                 1.2             1.7   1.2                  1,o      1.2            1.3   57                 1.5      1.2           1.h   0.9
Administrative Eapenses/ATA                            0.7                 0.5                 0.7             0.6   0.6                  0.7      0.6            0.3   0.5                0.3      0.3           0.4    0.4
Taxes/ATA                                              N                   0.1                 N               0.7    N                   04.5     0.1            0.6     0.1             0.1      0.2            02     0.
Ret Inomea/ATA                                     571                571                 571             571    517                 51       571            5     7                  57       5              57     0.3
Encase before Tanks/Aver ge Equity                     3.5                 5.3                8.6             11.0      470               9.3      7.0           13.8   7.7               11.2      8.9           13.6   6.9
Net Incame/Average Equity                               3.5                3.8                 8.6             3.7   7.0                  3.9      5.5            5.2    5.5               5.4     6.9            3.2    5.1
Distributed to Founders Funds/Ret Inco=e      36.8    57.2       20.2    33.1        34.5    31.3       64.0  47.2   59.5       59,6    57.7    38.6   84.8  73.5  40.4    80.0    54.3    43.5   39.9  20.2   46.4
Distributed to Founders Funds eTnAr-end
Founders Fond                                0.8      i.6       0.4      1.5        1.9      3.4       2.6   1.9   4.5         3.6      2.1      2.5    10.3   4.6   2.4        4.7      2.7      3.3    2.0     0.8    2.9
Distributed to Fonda of the Rank;/Year-end
Fonds of the Rash                           19.9    73.8       21.0    23.5        17.2    25.2       16.8  20.1   23.3       19.5    15.5    18.7   41.5  23.3  33.7    i6.i     20.5    29.0   14.8    9.M  13.3
Provision against loEses/3ross Encase          6.2      5.9       5.1      5.8        6.5      6.7       6.2    7.2   7.4        6.       2 8.0    7.7    7.8   12.2  13.2        6.9      8.4      8.0    8.1    8.2   8.7
Taxes/Orose Incase                             8.0      N        13.2      2.5       13.8      N        14,o  13.7    N         10,2      9.8      2.5    15.4  13.3   3.0    11.9    12.2          3.0   12.7   12.5    2.0
Net Entast/eross Exooes                        4.6      6.0       4.1      6.0        7.4        10.8    9.9   7.1   11.3       12.3      7.2      8.5   29.3    7.9    7.3    i2.6        7.9    10.1    5.7     3.8   5.7
4 Encludie'g net exchange gains, if any.
/2 Including net exchange louses, if any. 
4 ATA: Average Total Assets.
N - Negligible less than 0.05S.                                                                                                                                                                                           sc-0
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN OAGRICULTURAL. CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Alt P.eks
Baac _het 171 - 73)
-1972       93          12          93           17         2217                          22        2 197191 92                           1973         12271      1972     122          1271       1972       1229751                   1972       1922
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Desk & deposit, with other h.ast                  2,826.8   4,279.2        2,579.8   2,94.9.8       2,578.3   3,636.3             24.6.6      437.3    645.8             125.8      429.9      747.7       186.8    211.5    512.5           276.8       531.3   1,092.6          75.3      135.0      253.8
Esposito with National Bank                       3,206.1   6,322.1        2,734.3   3,867.1.       2,568.9   3,834.5             389.5       60,.4,   656.2          1,14.3.2   1,976.5   2,237.2          99.6    11.9.8    229.7          540.7       761.7   1,038.0         162.3      210.6      276.9
ESr,.t-teee  loos  to,  enteserises                9,177.1  12,538.8       9,025.5   9,617. 5    195,1 51.3  16,455.6           1,965.4.   2,643.1  3,129.8          )          )5)                                1,075.4  1,250.4       5           4,033.7   5,751.1 )                 1,275.0   1,724.4
isd~dtvools                  932.3      970.7        446.9      446.9         194.4      375.6           325.1        253.4    204.0        )   85 I 6            53.    6)1.       6.        1~1:5      18.6                    6 4.2       74.3   555.2                       69.3
hanh                         421.2     662.1         903.7   1,020.1          104.1      390.1            189.8       229.6    166.7           ,955 64.0    ,7.6                    6.6      15:3        63.2    )2,482.5       252,7       156.4   ) 1,199.3        34.1       27.9
e_~  thers                         4.0      182.8           9.3       15.8         25.1       75.4              0.7         1.8       6.3                   5          ))7.3                                  3.7    114.4                       13.3   512.6                         8.8
Snortid Thos,prp ..eto & other correct
assots                                               253 .9     411.          199.4      311.2        212.8      327.5             23.0        36.1      65.0            606.4      552.2      877.7         1.        11.0      32.1         283.5      289,5      427.1      7539.      ~      k!
Toto1  -oret oset-t77(07 .                                                          .8       259.          0   2           ,400       ib240    ,047553075 899.31,734                                  55F37846,102                    35  .22                               i       1,771 5.9 2,36
INVEISTMENT PORTFOLIO0
meg-t-n loan  to:   -cteterhes                   19,349.9  24,131.2    24,570.3  34,952.8    12,961.5  17,989.6                 3,634.5    4,107.6  5,136.1         )                      55                        ,049.8  5,310,2   512,185.1  14,532.8   )3,257.8   4,185.5
isdividonl129.                         239.6          96.9       24.9         179        107.3             29.0        33.4      30.7        1154         ~    ~    929          46.            93       77.8   51,43.            0.1                                           2'5 .30.
honk                       1,032.1   1,190.3         424.5   1,201.2          356.1      825.3            364.1       322.8    230.7         11  53414,677.  )1,23.             5)),           10061.3              .43.         430,       61:    )35742.1          517        2.
others                    1,289.4   2,104.8        1,465.1   1,634.6       1,029.1   1,191.9             346.9        357.3    410.1        (          S           S)230.6    103.8   )218.1                                                302.1   ,86.6                       96.7
loan  for heostg   pbhih  works                    6,640.1   7,145.1       6,300,6   7,395.7        4,136.2   4,981.0             731.1       836.2    932.2           2,649.4    2,993.8   3,197.8         384.4    497.0    568.5        1,767.1   1,927,1   1,796.7           280.7      280.9        0.
56oE56. Enneseosets                    ~~~~~~ ~~642.9  755.5    641.2      841.0         46o.1      670.1            114.4       116.6    140.1              91.4       74.8       52.2          5.0       5.0       6.7         65.7        67.0       91.3          5.0       42.5       130.3
Deposits &,.th- Song-term asste                      349.3      2524,          49.2      190.5        124.1      11.6,3                         8.1      45.7            11.        134.9      229.3          6.4      11.3    243346.0                  10o.6      152.0          0.1         35        28
29,9143.2  35909         357.    639.6    19,194.9  29,7059                   5,2275.3    8,002.0  1(719(572        14,791.2  17,971 .1  21,717.5    4761 .8   Z7157   57.       7  03721,8.                    7,9.1757                3,723.0   h,773.9
fees,  previsions Per 1000cc           ~~~~463.4  616.1         607.9      936.0          3 8.      516.8             70.2    ..1S         14.9             199.5      290.6      4,1.3        53.7       97.4,    14o.o        196.6       299.0      408.5         59.9   -   7.2       12
Total Seveoteset pcrtfcSie                    9.       53772          2,39.7  45,03.6                                       1.                                   460.       777       2-17,324.2j   4,0.       ,9.         .             40 14,697. 5  1789.t397.                      tx
FIXED ESSETS                                           287,0      341.0         219.6      263.8        354.2      44.0.7            6 .4         79.2      82 I           112.7       146.9      209.7        18 2      41 7       59 2         74-0       9i.9        96.9         5827       70.5       U 771
TOTAL ASSETS        5t,.~~~~~2.2  58,951.0 ~~~~2a2L1    ~ ~          40,0356   51,5930                                                             Z ,9   .01 20453 2674.8  3705  ,719.0  9,170.9  9,124.0    18 453.5  2072       2,38.         5,491.9   5,422.1
LIABII.TIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES5
Dososd deposits                                   12,739.3' 19,147.9    10,053.5  16,897.9    19,497 5  21,347 1                1,353.4    2,145.9  3,136.7            3,353.2   4,507 0   7,552.9          377 9    772.3  1,065.0         2,133.3   2,511.0   3,476.2          527.1      650.5       777.3
PTse and savings deposits                          2,885.4   3,630.5        1,436.6   2,909.6       1,942.5   2,147.5             247.3       298.3    416.5           i,4i6.o   1,753.0   1,986.9          1o3.6    116.0    137.7         1560.0       76o.9   1,290.5         167.2      159.0       153.6
Short-tort  b-roig8o Pr-  oNtiel Bcek              4,924,5   5,589.5       3,902.4   4,702.2        2,683.0   3,314.1           1,411,3     1,541.5  1,669.7             737      2012)3955    451.2                                            2 6    1,900.4   2,244.2             6        2          7  
Oth-r strt-t-et  hbro-lgo                             1.                                ,o.                                                             2>'.?          173.7   2072   1,325.5               315.2                                         22.141799              692.6      690          7.
61.  869.4       1,8ii.5    ,954           381.0      343.7            180.'1      365.72                                                                  10747    123.3                      22i,9478 )9109.7                               31.6
Acrsol  ad other cret libhhlities                  1,419.4   1 993.4       2 8409   3 499.9         3 877 6   3 091 9             617.0       774.7    6577.3            167.4      190.3      237,4          9.4       7.1      1.            28.0       34.7       163.6        36.9       67.8       125.4
Tnto1 coret liohtlDtEc                      27.         707          2004: 527i7             9t7T53084:                   3876 7                  55o1(777    8919T.5  11,102.7                       803.0                                       1 .0,0=95352.0   7,6.-137          1.61,0    -I,8685
Time deposits                                      9615.3   9,663.5         8,6o6.5  11,755.2       6,358.6   1,8007.7          1,178.0     1,230.9  1,344.3           1,677.0   2,040.1   2,675.0          309.0    307.4    149.6    -1,774.3   2,177.2   2,732.2              289.0      409M        699.3
LoansProssol-plitieeI entities                    4,873.3   7,233.0        9,181.1  10,690.9        4.,733.0   5,721.9          1,300.7     1,134.73  1,605.0          6,757.7   7,992.3  10,164.6    3,583.7  6,590.2  5,132.9            6,569.2   7,967.3   9,529.7         2,374.9   1,938,4   2,654,6
te-s  Pro  hbke and ether cors                     4480,3   5 513.1        5764.3   7.871,6         2,098.7   3,7_08.2          1 171 1    1 719 0  1 776 6            3,016.0   5,788.5   5,6514           557.5    506.6    529 1         24h64.4   3,438.9   3 932 8    1 0562    1 055 2   1 54280
Total 1-og-t-ro  dsht                       17,29.   2L,457k              57    3,1.           320.    7293               SSS-          ,,,, ttt  ,,,,,,99 ,3,:  11,443.    156891,9.T,1.                       , 3-07.2             j ...'  12e583.   J,a12s,            3.719,0       t2     0     -59A
EQUITY AED QUASI-EQUITY
PFonder  Fond                                      2,797,4~  2,537.5        7,923.1   1,395.2       1,045.2      977.51           431.9       477.0    457.6             917.8      824.2       975.0       4,08.5    249.1    256.3        1,092.9      969.5   1,047.4       (157.7                   172.3
PFondors 95,d Per hensg .ed pohito oorke             464.6      544.7       1,309.6       53.0        101.1.     1ci8.i            20.6         21,2      25.1           142.3        57.9    1 1951         -         32.5       31.8          7.9       35.3        23.4     1 291,0        -          -
Special Pond for hoosieg and pbhiSe acrs           2,387,1   2,401,9        1,934.0   2,870.3       1,2358,    1,236.9            4,11.3      415.2    42o.8           1,072,5   1,163.9 (                  165.7    167.8    170.2           891,9      808.9       921.4                   144.9      167.7
Ponds of the Beek   Roiness Pond                     373.8      449.8         377.1      467.8        459.6      613.0             65.i         79.2      99.7           177.3       177,9      243.5        17,9      23.2       36.1        171.9      162.0       233.2     185.9                     73.9
CoDis-ti-e On-sptio-            94.1       78,6         49.7       87.0          50.6       70.7              9.6        17.8      16,9             43.0       413,6      64, 2         6.5       6,7       9.5          21,2       27.3       33,75        50.1       10.1         7.3
Other Foods                      1.5        1.1           8,8       14.4,         1.1        0.5              1.0         1.8       2.6             02.3      108,1      123,9          1.7       1.9       1.6           6.3        9.9        19.2                                   6 __  ,  24
Total s9otty and qo-i-sqojty                 6534 6327                5                       0937       115            ~       T        55,1027                 2283        2376       2496           99                  5flr                   2126                      349.1      4641.T42
Psood  -ceged on bh1f oP other -rganotien- 6,135.9  9,671.8    29,123.0  26,629.1                  19,273.9  42,390.6           2,284.8    2,63 0.  3,354.9            4,057.7   4,045.1   4,542.9    1,576.2  4,195,9  6,113.3             4,533.4  10,172,3  18,656.3          929.0   1,959.9   1,908.5
RAPTIOS
ratio                                       0.75,1    8,78,1        0.79,1    0.63,1        0,87,1    0.Oi 1           0.82,1      0.84,1   0.82:1            0.85,1      1 ,o6,     0.950:       1.24:1    1.14:1    1.17,1       8.71,1      1.16,1     1.16,1       1.03,1     1.06:1    1.31,1
Seveetnot portfolio/total acesto 9                     63        60            67         71           47         90               62           57        57              72          66         66          82        97         73           78          71         66           72         67         65
In-g- ten  dsit (RTDS/eqoity                            3,0       3.4           4.2        6.2          4.6        5.7              3.9         4.2       4.6               5.0        6,7        7.4         7.2      15.2       11,5          5.2        6.7         7.4        18.7         8.4       11.5
ITD other than Pe- sonIc-political
satitio /.qoity                                       2.2       2,2           2,6        4.0          2.9        3.5              2.5          2,6       3,1             2.1         3.3        3.3         1.4       1.7        1.3          2.1         2.9        3.1          3.9        3.6        5.3
P-ovisto/Oene-on-t pdr~tfolio 9                         1.5       1.7           1.8        1.7           1.9        2,0              1.3         i.8       2.2              1.3        1 .6       1,9         1.1        1.3       2.4           1,3        1.9        2.3          1.9        2.3        2.5
A-rsar/Iev-sta.ent po,f.tPiin 9                      n            o..6        0,.          1.3         -.e.         1,1           00          00           0.0 9            -          1.4        1.1       fa           .          ,          ..2217                            ne             .          .
lIes 1975



APPRAISAL OF
^N AGRIGULTJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
TJGOSLAVIA
Statement of Resources as of becember 31  ly73- 
( Milti ,n liners )
UJBZ          BB           LB                 VB               PBS          KBP          SBS           IBT             Total  3
Short-Terne
19,1147.9     16,597.8   21,347.1             3,136.7.          7,552.9      1,085.0    3,476.2          775.3
riims dn  .:iv'nVs deposits                                        3,630.5        2,009.6    2,747.5               416.5           1,986.9-       137.7    2,423.1          153.6            13,505.4
trlbh3 arnd lines of credit                                        6 456.9        6 707.6    3 657.8             1 941 5           1 325.5        57 .5    1 298.5          806k             2279.
Tovnl short-term resources                                   29,235.3    227:731       2       T 170,65.                       l            ,7972    7,78           1,7               109,
Shoft-term. I-oars outstanding                                       14,806.o      11,411.5   17,624.2             3,508.8           6,7!0.8       1,335.9    5,995.0       1,830.4            63,222.6
C1mpulsorf deposits with aB                                           4,322.1       3 887.4    3,834.5               855.2           2 237.2         229.7    1,038.0         276.9            16 681.0
Total short-term disbursements                               19,128.1 6,99   21,458.7                                                    7      1,6. 7,033.0        2,107.3            79,903.6
(rdisbuarsed 5d-ort- erm resources                                   10,107.2      1o,016.1    6,293.8             1,131.1           1,917.3         231.6       1614.8      (372.1)14         29,489.8
Undisbursed coioAitments                                               n.a.          n.a.        n.a.              _897.4               315.1            3        26.0        170.2              n.a.
Uncommitted sbort-term resources                                       n.a.          na. _    n.a.                   233.7            L902.2        (1147.7)     138.        (2.)                n.3)
tong2 Terrr
Resources
Time deposits                                                       8,663.5      11,755.2    7,802.7             1,058.5           2,675.0         148.6    2,732.2         689.3            35,525.0
Equity finds                                                        5,784.1       4,318.5    2,323.8               903.5           2,060.1         458.3    1,892.2         340.0            18,080.5
Loans from socio-political entities                                 7,233.0      10,690.9    5,721.9             1,605.0          10,164.6      5,132.8    9,529.7        2 654.6            52,732.5
Other loans                                                         9,513.1       7,871.6    3 708.2             2 o62.4           9.691.4                   3            1 942.0            30 809.6
Total long-term resources                                    27,193.7       3i,636.2   1956.6  tTT5,4   69,267.8 18,086.9                                                              137,147.6
Investment portfolio                                                 35,202.7      45,503.6   25,557.1             6,746.5          21,306.2       5,954.6   17,090.1        4,653.6          162,014.4
Undisbursed long-term resources                                      (8,009.0)   (10,867.4)  (6,000.5)            (1,117.1)            (755.1)       313.2       996.8         572.3          (24,866.8)
Undisbursed ccasitments                                                n.a.          n.a.        n.a.                 288.5          6,186.2       2,393.9    4,878.8       2,112;7               n.a.
Uncomnitted long-ter-m resources                                       n.a.          n.a.         n.a.             (1,40.6)          (6,.941.3)   (2.080.7)  (3,882.0)   (1,.540.4)               n.a.
Undisburse'1 Resources                                                  2,098.2         (851.3)      293.3               14.0           1,162.2        544.8    1,161 6          200.2             4,623.0
Urccnumittel Resources                                                   n.a.           n.a.        n.a.             (1,171.9)         (5,039 1)   (2,22814)  (3,743.2)   (2,082.7)                 n.a.
Shortfall in long-term resources for disbursement/short-term
resources %                                                               27.4          42.9        21.6               20.3               6.9                                                        22.7
/I   Excluding the resources and assets of the banks as working organizations.
L2   Not including the US$31 million IBRD loan for agro- industries in Macedonia which does not yet appear on SBS balance sheet.                                                                                 (S
3   Has only a limited meaning, because of double counting.
/4   Long-term funds were used temporarily for short-term  operations.
Ma,  1975



ANNE 7
APPRAtSAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLA
All Banks
Arrears and Write Off  an of Decaber 31i73
AzTearUvsonaatA  Loge                                          Wto QOf""
Amount       % of Inestment        fAU                                  AEou
(million Dinars)     Portfolio      (million Dinars)     Portfolio      (million Dinar)
UBZ          207.8               0.6             616.1               1.7               21.4
BB           611.4               1.3             8o6.o               1,7               24.8
LB           253.0               1.0             516.8               2.0               42.5
VB            62.2               0.9             148.9               2.2               12.0
PBS          243.2               1.1             411.3               1.9                2.1
KBP           65.5               1.1             149.0               2.4
SBS          292.3               1.7             4085                2.3                $4
MT            27.6               0.6             120.3               24                 ,
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Bank of Vojvodina
Forecast of Short-Term Loans 1974-78                                                     Forecast of Long-Term Loans 1974-78
tMi11ion Dinars)                                                                          (Million Dinars)
1974u            1951976                       1977     1__978
1974         197197976 4'7                                 1978                                T     70tal        17Ic Total  Agric  Total  Total A       Total Aic
ARvTETa Apr.la                                   Tota    Ag    Total Ag         Total Agr: T    ApprovalS                      -              -      -
Local Currency    3728   1230  4460   1360   4982    1696   5670  1863    6852  2208              Local Currency    1703   510   1521   563    2453    703    2521  772  2870   915
Foreign Exchange    O  O           bo 048 o                     __0   %               0           Foreign Exchange      30    18      50    19       90      24      70   27    80    32
Total  i375    1230 4500   1360   5030    1696   5725  1863    6907  2208                          Total       1733   52 7 157i        T    253   727    2591  798  20 9
Coymitments                                                                                        comwP&I
Local Currency    3464   1375  4154   1496   4671    1884   5351  2112    6571  2487              Local Currency      1468   306   1190   333    2033    419    2194  469  2324   553
Foreign Exchange ~~~~~  Q  0   .J~~~  0  ~~j  0  5$~~    0          foreign Exchange      30    17      50    18       90      2317    70   2690 23  80    3180    3
ToteignZxchale  3494   1375  8194   18496   4719    1884   5406  2112    6626  2487                Total        4I       2   120    351      123   l IiI7    228        2TbIE VT
Disbursements                                                                                      Dlsburscments
Local Currency    3210   1264  4052   1482   4520    1797   5202  2061    6410  2441               Local Currency     1119   300   1002   352    1580    427    1830  490  1930   580
Foreign Exchange             0   JO        0             1              2 0     6     40           Foreign Exchange      30    16        3   19       90 515              826      0 8
Total  3280   1268  8092   TTBT  8568    1797   5257  20~~~   68652881    Total       1189   ~      1052To370 370        ;   49    19009515020105610
Repayments                                                                                         RePayments
Wal C-urrency    2600   1067  3120   1278   3744    1543   4492  1838    5390  2210
Foreign Exchange    30       0    40       0      48       0    _55.    0               0          Local Currency       598   203    690   243       828    298      994  350  1222   821
Total      2b30   1067  3160   1278   3792    1583   4547  1838    58852210                Foreign Exchange       30 240                       90      0       70    0    801
Total        628   203    780   283       918    28      10-683_501T302   821
Forecast of Guarantees for Long Term Loans 1974-78
(Million Dinars)
1974         1975           1976           1977          1978
Approvals            Total Ag:r  Total  Agr.   Total  Agr         Total_ Aj. Total Agr.
Local Currency    200    22    250    27       310      32     350   34   410    36
Foreign Exchange  2       40    260    50      290      59     300   63   34    67
Total      815    62    510    77       600      90                 650; y  w7    103
MaY 1975



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF                         Table 8
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIm PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Bank of Vojvodina
Forecast Statement of Resources Li.
(Million Dinars)
Short-term                                  974        ' 9196E    1977   1978
Resources
Deposits                           4Ljs495   53445   6D660   7,570  7914W
Loans and lines of credit           2 054   L9,4   1,569   1,169        769
Total short-term resources       t3ff9   7,379   8,229   9,049   9,917
Short-term loans outstanding             4,120   5,s50   5,830   6,540   7,560
Compulsory deposits with NBL.              975   1 160   1 316   1 460   1,670
Total short-term disbursements 6,095         76210    8,000 9,230
Undisbursed short-term resources         1,454   1,169   1,083   1,049       637
Undisbursed commitments                  1,151   1,253   1,404   1,553   1,714
Uncommitted short-term resources           38iX)  (X(321)   (04  (1,027)
Long-term
Resources
Time deposits                       1674  2-o10   2,435   2,865   3,307
Equity Funds                          929      959   1,018   1,080   1,150
Loans                               3 795   4 306   4,758   5,128   5,472
Total long-term resources                727    8,211   9,073   9,929
Investment Dortfolio                    7(280   7,610   8,370   9,20C   9,900
Undisbursed long-term resources           (882)   (335)   (159)   (127)       29
Undisbursed commitments                    637     825   1,278   1,642   2,036
Uncommited long-term resources          (1,519) (1,160) (1,437) (1,769) (2,007)
Undisbursed resources                       572      _34    924      922      716
Uncommited resources                     (1,216)  (1,2htjY(1,758) (2,?73) (3,034)
Shortfall in long-term resources
for disbursement/short--term resources %  13        5        2       1       -
/   Excluding the resources and assets of the banks as working organizations
/2 National Bank
May 1975



APPRAJ',AL OF
AN AGNICULTUFAL CFEBIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Bank of Vojvodina
Forecast Balance Sheet 1974-78
(Million Dinars)
ASSETS                               Year ending December 31,                                  LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                 Year ending December 31,
CURRENT ASSETS                            1974    1975    1976    1977    1978                 CURRENT LIABILITIES
1974   1275   1976    1977    1978
Cash and deposits with other banks 1=,22   1704   7T-h   17fl             b                    Current deposits                       4,495  545  6,660   7,           9,1h8
Deposits with National Bank            975   1,160   1,316   1,460    1,670                    Short-term borrowings                  2,o54  1,934  1,569   1,169        769
Short-Term loans                    4,120   5,050   5,830   6,540    7,560                     Other current liabilities                800    990    939       660      190
Other current assets                   143     190      194    165         96                      Total current liabilities           ,00  o,36990  939 6709  1017
Total current assets            o20   o,O    9,08    9,647   10,190
LONG-TERM DEBT
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO                                                                                Time deposits                           1,674  2,010  2,435   2,865   3,307
Loans                                  3 795  4,306  4,758   5.128   5.Li72
Long-term loans                      7,230   7,550   8,300   9,130    9,840                        Total long-term debt                       6,316  7,193   7,993   8,779
Equity investments                     160     180      2Q0     220       240
Other long-term assets                  50      55       60      6         70             EQUITY AND QUASI-EQUITY
7,40-  7,765  TW~    .9,415 YU;
Less:  provisions for losses      160      175     190      215      250                   Founders' Funds                           929    959  1,018   1,080   1,150
Total Investment Portfolio    7,280   7,610   8,370   9,200    9,900                      Funds of the Bank                         14     179    192       199     208
Total equity and quasi-equity    10E7  1.38   .210          =      1,279
FIXED ASSETS                                 92     105      117     134       154
TOTAL ASSETS                        13,892  15,823  i7,571  18,981   20.244               TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                13L892 15J823 17,571  18,981  20.244
Forecast of Net Income 1974-78                                            Ratios
Year ending December 31,                                     Current ratio                           0.89:1 0.97:1 0.99:1  0.99:1  1:1
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978                                 Investment portfolio/total assets %    52         48     48       48      4,9
Long-term debt/equity                   5.1    5.6    5.9       6.2    6.5
Amount (Million Dinars)                70    80      85     92     100
S of average total assets            0.54  0.5h   0.51   0.50    0.51
% of average equity                  6.7   7.2    7.2    7.4      7.6
/1  Including loans for housing and public works.
Ma, 197C



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
All Banks
Long-Term Loans 1972-73                                    Guarantees for Long-Term Loans 1972-73
(Million Dinars)                                                 (Million Dinars)
Applications   Commitments         Disbursements                   ADnlications   Commitments
1972    1973   1972       1973     1972      1973                  1972    1973   1972   1973
UBZ    Total      NA      NA     3350      4250      2400     3038                    NA     NA      NA     NA
Agric.    NA      NA       350       443      190       365                   NA      NA     NA      NA
BB     Total      NA     NA      2822      9041     4275      4611                    NA     NA      NA     NA
Agri c.    NA     NA       120      384        92       418                   NA      NA     158    205
LB     Total      NA      NA     2590      3459      2165     2890                    NA     NA      NA      1174
Agric.    NA      NA        98      308        45       275                   NA      NA     NA      NA
VB     Total      997    1585    776       1303       667     1222                    446    680    376       627
Agric.    377      458    288       363       275       236                   142      26    122       24
PBS    Total    51498    6700   4603       3700      2871     3200                   9962/1 993  - 947O0     9863/1
Agric.    262      1493   131        60        74        96                   MA      NA     NA      NA
KBP    Total    4898    4505   3457        1825      2255     2064                    526    842    526       842
Agric.    NA      NA       4144     222       433       315                   NA      NA       51      13
SBS 2  Total    6449   12282   1778        5272      1844     2873                    766  1043L1  740 2   857LI
Agric.    356      678      98      291        82       159                   NA      NA     NA        24
IBT    Total    3778    2775   1625         901      1070     1073                    151    325    151       325
Agric.      36      22      21.      12        15        38                     0       0       0       0
Total  Total      -       -     21001    29751    17547    20971
Agric.    -       -       1550     2083    1]206       1902
Including guaranrees for sniort-terim loans.
2  DaGa for 1972 includes operations of SBS' Head office and SkopJe Branich 
only wh'riiC  re esLLnsted to account for about 85; of SBS' total long-tern loans.
M.ay 1975



ANNEX 
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Pro.jected Investments, Operating and Financial Results
The projected investment, income and cash flow statements for twenty-one
representative investment models are shown in detail in Appendices 1 to 21 of
this Annex.  The financial rates of return including those from sensitivity
tests are summarized in the following table. All prices, yields and other teen-
nical coefficients used in the models are based on information received at the
time of appraisal (November 1974). Although input and output prices are likely
to change over time, it is anticipated that they will increase at about the
same rate. Therefore, in all models, constant prices have been applied. A phy-
sical contingency of 5% has been included in the investment costs. The yields
anticipated are generally conservative, particularly for fruit and vegetable
production where risks are relatively high. Particular assumptions made for
each model are listed in the footnotes of the respective tables.
All cash flow statements have been computed on the basis of interest
rates on the subloans of 9.75% for the social sector subborrowers and of 7.75%
for the private subborrowers. In fact the rates on the portion of the subloans
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be ll/O for all subborrowers
and the rates on the portion of the subloans financed out of local ftnds would
be the prevailing rates on these funds, i.e. varying presently between 3% and
6% for the Drivate sector and 3% and 12% for the social sector. Considering
average lending rates of local funds across the country of 4.5% for the private
sector and 8.08% for the social sector, the cash flow statements as computed
reflect as near as possible the expected average interest rate to subborrowers.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Projected Financial Rates of Return
Base    Investment    Operating         Revenues
Case    Costs +10%    Expenses +10%    -lo%
Social Sector
Dairy Farm (h00 hd)                    14         12             9               7
Cattle Fattening (400 hd)              17         15             0              -3
Peas (100 ha)                          19         17            13              10
Tomatoes (80 ha)                       15         13             7               4
Irrigation North (500 ha)              14         13             6               h
Irrigation South (500 ha)              19         17            13              11
Drainage Open- Closed (750 ha)         20         19            17              15
Drainage Open (750 ha)                 22         21            15              13
Land DeveloDment (500 ha)              20         19            14              12
Cold Storage                           18         16             3               0
Grain Drying                           28         25            12               8
Milk Collection                        19         17            16              14
Private Sector
Dairy Farm (3 to 6 hd)                 20         19            13              11
Sheep Farm (50 to 80 hd)               19         17             8               5
Mixed Vegetables (1 ha)                32         30            30              27
Plastic House (1 ha)                   31         27            29              25
Cherries (.5 ha)                       15         13            14              12
Raspberries (.5 ha)                    22         18            17,             13
Vineyards CL ha)                       23         21            22              20
Mechanization (1 ha)                   20         18            12               9
Land Development (5 ha)                20         19            14              12



ANNEX 8
Tage l-
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model:  Social Sector Dairy Farm (400 Cow Unit)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
1          2            3            4          5-20
------------------ Din 000 -----------_________
Revenues
Milk  /1                                 __        6,432        7,128        7,o88        7, o48
C,111 Cows  /                            --          303          363          424          484
Female Calves   3                                    338          398          396          396
Male Calves                              --          273          321          319          319
Insurance                                - -          75           97           97           97
Subtotal                              --        7,=21        8,307       8,324        T3
Operating Expenses
Feed Cows   16                           __        2,130        2,840        2,840        2,840
Feed Calves                               -          237          247          243          243
Labor                                     -          360          360          360          360
Veterinary Services and Semen       9    -            60           80           80           80
Insurance   l                             -          142          178          178          178
Internal Services  /l4 1-                             65           80           80           80
External Services                        --           65           80           80           80
Maintenance Buildings  /13               --           40           60           80         160
Maintenance Machinery   mj               --           40           50           60           60
Administration  /15                      --          200          270          270          270
Replacement Heifers  /16                 --          7014       1 o88        1,248        14o0_8
Subtotal                               _        4,I-,V3      5,333        5,519 
Net Income Before Taxes                     --        3,378        2,974        2,805        2,585
Less Taxes  /17                          --          168          149          140          129
Net Income                                  --        3,209        2,825        2,665        2,456
1 4.o Din per liter.
2    550Okg at ll Din per kg.
/3   120 kg at 20 Din per kg - 4 months of age.
120 kg at 16 Din per kg.
5: Sale value on animal's death over 60 days of age
S7100 Din per year.
/7   750 Din per calf sold.
12 stock man at 2500 Din per month.
9   Medicine 120 Din per cow, semen 80 Din per cow.
0  Livestock 3% of sales velue, building 2%;  of veluq,
200 Din per cow,
12 200 Din per cow,
1 2% of ralue,
v 6% of value.
7    6 staff at 45,000 Din per year.
E   16,000 Din per heifer.
Taxes 5% of net income before taxes.
Ma- 19 5



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Dairy Farm (400 Cow Unit)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
2           3           4            5           6           Yn           8                       10           11           12         13-20
---  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -- - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - Din  '000.--  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                               --       7,421        8,307       8,324        8,344       8,344        8,344       8,344        8,344       8,344        8,344       8,344        8,344
Long term Loan  1t                                 7,701        4,776          --           --          --           --          --           --          --           --         8_            _           _
enterprise contrutton  L                           3 o68        2 280          --           --          --           --          --           --          --           --          --           --
Subtotal                                       30,7973 8,307                          8,344       8,344                        i                    8 o,3444-
Cash outflow
Operating Expenses                                             4,043        5,333        5,519       5,759        5,759       5,759       5,759        5,759        5,759       5,759        5,759       5,759
Investments                                       10,769        7,o56          --           --          --           --          --           --          --           --          --           --           --
Tanxes                                                 --         168         149          14o         129          129         129          129         129          129         129          129           129
Debt Service
Interest                                           350          983       1,216       1,130        1,036          932         818         693          556          405         24o           59           --
Principal                                           --           --         884         970        i o64       1 168        1,282       1,407        1544        1 695        1 86           603           --
Subtotal                                       11,119      12,250        7,582       7,759        i                                                             7t8          7,958 7,0    6,550         5,
Cash Flow                                               (350)      2,227         725          565          356         356          356         356          356         356          356       1,794         2,456
Compul60rY Allocation    L3
Cepreci   Ation                                        --         145         253          253         253          253          253         253          253         253          253         253           253
BuSpiness and Reserve Funds  L_                                   62           44i          38          35           38          42           45          49           54          59           64            66
Remaining for Distribution                                -       2,020          4            274          6                        61           58           544                     49        1,477         2,137
Incremental Cash Flow  L                             (10,769)     (3,908)      2,784        2,627       2,421        2,418       2,414        2,4U        2,407        2,402        2,397       2,392         2,390
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Rc t-,n
Financial Rate of Return:      114%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs +10%:      :12
Operating Expenses +10%:      9%
Revenue -10%                  7%
1 70% of investment costs at 9.75% interest rate,
30% of investment costs.
3 According to Yugoslav law.
Annual depreciation at 2% of investment costs for civil works and 7% for equipment.
5   mount to 3% of net income minus long term interest and depreciation.
Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary aflocations.
Incremental Herd value year 20  2,281,000 Din.
u xp
may 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTIURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model:  Social Sector Dairy Parm (40o Cow unit)
D. Investments
Year                                        Year                                        Total
1                                            2
Investment Items                                  No. of Uni t.    Cost per Unit       Local    Foreign Exc an;e   Total            Local   Foreign Exchange   Total           Local   Foreign Exchange   Total
-Din-----        ----         Din '000 -------Din '000                                                                Din ' -
Civil Works
Barr. Cows                                       2,840 m            1,870          3,982          1,328          5,310             __            __             __          3,982         1,328         5,310
Barn Delivery                                      160 m2           1,870             224            75            299             _-            __             __             224            75           299
Barn Calves                                        165 m2           1,496             185            62            247             --            __             --             185            62           247
14ilking Parlor                                    500 m2           1,870             702           233            935             __            __             __             702           233           935
Hay Barn                                           400 m2           1,122             336           113            449             -             -_             --             336           113           449
Silo                                               300 M2             748             336           112            448             --            __             __             336           112           448
yanure DGomp                                       500 m2             561             230             51           281             __                                          230            51           281
Access Roads                                     3,333 ma              45             123             27           150             --            --             __             123            27           150
Water and Drainage System                           __                 __             340             60           400             --            --             __             340            60           400
Electrical System                                   __                 __             150             50           200 P- O- O-                                                150            50           200
Building Administration                            150 mP           R,805             324            97            421             _-            __             __             324            97           421
Subtotal                                                                        __32           2,208          9,140             --            --             __          6,932                       9,140
Equipment and Machinery
Boxes-Calves                                        __                 __              16              5            21             _-            __             __              16             5            2J
Scraper-Manure                                       1             21,000              11              4            15             __            __             __              11             4            15
Loader-Front End                                     1             30,000              23              7            30                                          -               23             7            30
Trailer-Side Delivery                                1             55,000              41             14            55             --            __             __              41            14            55
Milking Plant and Cooler                            --                 --             153            187           340             __            __             __             153           187           340
Feed Bin for Concentrate                             1             68,ooo              38             30             68            --            -_             __              38            30            68
Small Equipment                                     --                 --              80             20           100             -_            __             __              80            20           100
SUbtotal                                                                           3       62    ___                                          __2 --  ----                 3r             267 
Other
Engineering Services                                __                 __             413             75           488             --            __             __             413            75           488
Breeding Stock
In Calf Heifers Local                         100 hd             16,000              __             _                         1,600            --          1,600           1,600            --         1,600
In Calf Heifers Import                        112 hd             20,000              --             --            __             __         2,240          2,240              --         2,240         2,240
YMxed Age Milking Herd with Calves  /I          254 hd                 --              --             _-             __         2,280            --          2,280           2,280            --         2,280
Incremental Working Capital                         __                 __              __             __                          600            --            600             600            --           600
Subtotal                                                                           El3            75                         TIM           2,240          6,720                         2,315 722,0
Physical ContingencY 58                                                                  384            128            512            224          112            336             608           240            848
Total                                                                            8,091          2,678        10,769           47             352          70             12795          5,030
A Existing herd purchased and moved to new barns.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
PagZe 4
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Dairy Farm (400 Cow Unit)
E. Herd Projections
Year
1        2        3         4
- _______----------head-------------------
Herd Composition
Cows                                 200       400      400       400      400
Mature                              15       1-5      335      -326      316
1st Lactation                       42       242       65        74       84
Calves Female                         27        56       54        54       54
Calves Male                           27        57       54        54       54
Mortality
Cows                                   4         6        8         8         8
Calves                                18        38       32        29       29
Sales
Cows Cull                             40        50       60        70        80
Calves Female /1                      81       141      i66       165       165
Calves Male /1                        81       142      167       166      166
Purchases
In-calf heifers                       44       256       68        78        88
Herd- cows                             --      400        --
calves                          --        54                          --
---------------Indices----------------
Production Indices
Calving Rate                          90        95       90        90        90
Adult Mortality                         2        2         2        2         2
Calf Mortality                         10       10         9        8         8
Cow Culling Rate                                13       15        18        20
Milk Production                        ---------------Liters-----------------
1st Lactation per cow            3,500    3,700    3,700    3,700    3,700
Mature Cows per cow              4,500    4,700    4,700    4,700    4,700
Milk Production                        -----------------0001 Liters-------------
Cows 1st Lactation                   147       895      241       274      311
Cows Mature                          711       743    1,575    1,532    11485
Subtotal                           858   1-FZ3 13616 3          6-7E1 5
Less Milk Consumed by Calves /2   -1 7  341               34    ...L.    -lit
Total                                                         17
/1 At 4 months.
7 100 liters per calf.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page l
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Cattle Fattening (400 hd Unit)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
1          2           3          4-20
-Din '000---------------
Revenue
Fattened Cattle /1 21790                 5,022       5,022       5,022
Operating Expenses
Feed /2                         945      1,701       1,701       1,701
Labor /3                         54          90         90          90
Veterinary Services /4            8          14         14          14
Insurance /5                     57        100         100         100
Transport /6                      8          14         14          14
Fuel /7                          14         24          24          24
Maintenance Buildings             4          28         28          28
Maintenance Machinery             2          12         12          12
Administration /8                45         45          45          45
Feeder Cattle /9                --       2,455       2,455       2,455
Subtotal                  1,137       4,483       4,483       4,483
Net Income Before Taxes          1,653         539        539         539
Less Taxes /10                   83         27          27          27
Net Income                       1,570         512        512         512
/1   400 cattle fattened year 1; 720 cattle per year thereafter;
mortality 1 to 2% per year covered by insurance. 450 kg live weight
at sale, gain 1.15 kg per day, 200 day fattening period. Sale
price 15.5 Din/kg.
/2   Average daily feed consumption 7.13 kg at 1.6 Din/kg, straw bedding
2 kg per day per head at 0.2 Din/kg.
/3   3 stockmen at 2,500 Din per month, salary 1,670 Din plus social
costs 830 Din.
/    20 Din per head.
/5   Livestock 2% of sales value, buildings 3% of value.
/6   20 Din per head.
/7   1,500 tractor hours per year at 16 Din per hour.
/8   1 supervisor at 3,750 Din per month, 2,500 Din salary plus social
costs 1,250 Din.
/9   220 kg live weight at 15.5 Din/kg.
/10 Taxes 5% of net income before taxes.
'Way 19,5



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Cattle Fattening (400 head unit)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10        11      12-20
---------------------------------------------Din '000------------------------------------------------_--
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                2,790      5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022    5,022
Loan Long term /1                      3,047        --                                      -
Enterprise Contribution /2             1,306        --        --        --        --        --        --        --        --        --                  --
Subtotal                            7,143                5 ,022    5,022    5,022    5           5JQ2     5022      5022    5,022    50            52
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                     1,137      4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483    4,483
Investment                             4,353        --        --
Taxes                                      83         27       27        27        27        27        27        27        27        27        27        27
Debt Service
Interest                               148        297       278       256       233       207       179       148       114        76        35       --
Principal                                         200       219       241       264       290       318       349       383       421       361       --
Subtotal                            5.721      5,007    5.007    5,007    5,007    5.007    5,007    5JQ0                      50       4.906    4,510
Cash Flow                                  1,422         15        15        15        15        15        15        15        15        15       116       512
Compulsory Allocation /3
Depreciation /4                            51       --        --        --        --        --        --             --        __               51        51
Business and Reserve Funds /5              41          6         6         7         8        9        10        11        12         13        14        14
Remaining for Distribution /6              1,330          9         9         8         7         6         5         4         3         2        51       447
Incremental Cash  Flow /7                 (2,824)       506       506       505       504       503       502       501       500       499       498       498
C,  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of  Return:       17%
Sensitivity Analysis
Investment Costs + 10%:    15%
Operating Expenses + 10%:   0%
Revenue              - 10%:  -3%
/1   70% of investment cestc at 9.75% irterest rate
/2   30% of investment costs.
/3   According to Yugoslav law.
/4   Annual depreciation buildings 2%, equipment 7%.
/5   Based on 3% of net income less long-term interest and depreciation.
/6   Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
/7   Incremental herd value year 20   2,077,000 Din.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Cattle Fattening (400 head unit)
D.  Investnents
Year
1
Foreign
Investment Items                       No. of Units        Cost per Unit          Local       Exchange      Total
---- Din                           Din  000----------
Civil Works
Barn Fattening                         1,000 m2             1,125                838          287         1,125
Manure Dump                              700 m2                375               215           48           263
Access Roads                           2,222 m2                 45                82           18           100
Water and Drainage System                --                    --                 90           30           120
Electric System                          --                    ,,                 53           17            70
Subtotal                                                                    1.278          40           .678
Machinery and Equipment
Scraper Manure                             1               1.,,000                11            4            15
Trailer Side Delivery                      1               55,000                 41           14            55
Concentrate Feed Bin                       1               34,000                 19           15            34
Tractor                                    1               6L,000                 29           36            65
Small Equipment                            -               2J,000                 16            9            25
Subtotal                                                                      116           78           194
Other
Engineering Services                     --                    --                 60          --             60
Feeder Calves                          400 hd               3,410              1,364           -          1,364
Incremental  Working Capital             --                    --                850                        850
Subtotal                                                                    2,274          -           2.274
Subtotal                                                                           3,668          478         4,6
Physical Contingency 5%                      --                    --                183           24           207
Total                                                                      3,851           502       4,353
Xay 19(5



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Peas (100 ha)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project           1          2           3-10
 ________________-Din '000 ---------------
Revenue
Wheat /1                                        960                    --               --
Peas                                             --              780      1,040         1,300
Green Beans A                                    --              9        1 248         1.556
Subtotal                   19760                            1.716
Operating Expenses
Tractor and Combines  2                          66              245         2h5 245
Wages 13                                         30               99          99           99
Social Insurance /A                              15                          g              9
Seed /5                                          48              38         383           A
Fertilizer /6                                    81              272        272           272
Pesticides                                       --              120        120           120
Irrigation L7                                    --               70         70            70
Insurance L                                      29               55         79            99
Interest on Seasonal Credit 19                    8               39         40            40
Subtotal                                      277           1.332         37          1.377
Net Income before Taxes                           68               384         931        1,479
Taxes  1                                         a
Net Income                                        649              365        884         1.405
For yields see Annex 8, Appendix 3, page 4.
2  Includes maintenance and repair for combine and sowing machine amounting to 6% of investment cost; traCtor
operating costs Din 4O/hour with an assumed tractor lifetime of 12 years.
/3  Skilled labor at Din 15/hour and unskinled labor at Din 10/hour.
77 Premium amounting to 50% of wages.
7 Peas 185 kg/ha at Din 15/kg; beans 100 kg/ha at Din 10/kg.
4   Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35Ag.
7rT Per ha irrigation costs of Din 700 consisting of Din 100 for water charges and transport, Din 170 for
maintenance and Din 430 for pumping.
/8 3% of production value, increasing to 3.5% at full development.
79 Based on 50% of operating expenses for 6 months at an annual interest rate of 12%.
/W  Taxes and legal contributions 5% of net operating income.
lay 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
Page 2
APPRAISAL O_
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Peas (100 ha)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1       2       3                  _ 5  6-10
----Din 'OOO-------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                          1,716"  2,288   2,856   2,856   2,856   2,856
Long-term Loan /1                1,,573    __       __      __      __       __
Enterprise's Contribution /2       674     --       _ 
Short-term Loan                    617     65g      66      66      66
Subtotal                         -a    2,947   3             3,525   _37   3
Cash Outflow
Operating  xpenses               1,332   1,357   1,377   1,377   1,377   1,377
Investments                      2,247     --       --      --       --      --
Taxes                               19      47       74      74       74      74
Short-term Ioan Repayment          647     659      669     669  , 669       669
Debt Service
Interest                           77     153      153     107      56      __
Principal                         5- -_            47j    523      573
Subtotal                       =22   2,216   2         2750   2749   2
Cash Flow                             288     731      775      775     776   1,405
Compulsory Allocations /3
Depreciation /4                    186     186      186     186      186     186
Business and Reserve FPnda /5        3      16       32      33      35       37
Remaining for Distribution             99     529      557     556     555   1,182
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return        (2,534)    219      724     723      721     719
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return        19%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs   +io%:    17%
operating Expenses +10%:    13%
Revenues           -10%:    10%
70% of investment costs at an annual interest rate of 9.75%.
2 30% of investment costs.
Annual depreciation charge 12% for machinery and 2% for irrigation network.
5 Based on 3% of net income minus long-term interest and depreciation charges.
Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.



.ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
Page 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Peas (100 ha)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
Cost per               Year 1
No. of     Unit     Local   Foreign Exchange,  Total
Investment Items               Units    Din '000   -----------Din 000--------------
Combine (Peas)                    1        900       --           900             900
Bean Picking Machines             2        220       --           440             440
Pump and Pipe Network L         100 ha       8      5             224             800
Subtotal                                        576          1               2 1 0
Physical Contingencies (5%)                          29            78             107
Total                                          605          1_642           2,247
/1  Pump and Motor Din 1,000/ha; buried lines and risers Din 2,700/ha; surface lines
Din 4,300/ha.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
Page 4-
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Peas (100 ha)
E. DeveloDment of Yields L
(Yields in 100 kg/ha)
Price Per                       Year
Crop          Unit         Unit         Pre-Project /2       1       2      3-10
---Din---       ------------------100 kg/ha-----------
Wheat          kg           2.4               40
Peas           kg           2.6                               30     40     50
Beans /3       kg           2.6                              36      48     60
/1  Assumptions:  1st year  60 per cent of average yields
2nd year 80 per cent of average yields
3rd year 100 per cent of average yields
/2 Pre-project crop rotation wheat-maize in northern regions, wheat-wiheat-fallow
in southern regions where pre-project yields are about half of those in the north.
/3 Second crop.
May 1975



ANN.Ex 8
Appendix 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Tomatoes (80 ha)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project            1            2            3-16
-----------------I an-'e--------------------------
Revenue
Wheat /1                                       768
Tomatoes  2                                     -               1.856        2,432         __j072
Subtotal                                     768              1,856        2,432          3,072
Operating Expenses
Tractor, Combine, Sowing Machine a              53                130          130            168
Wages /4                                        24                192          192            212
Social Insurance /5                             12                 96           96            106
Seedlings L6                                    38                862          862            862
Fertilizer 77                                   65                130          130            130
Pesticides                                                         60           60             60
Irrigation /8                                                      56           56             56
Insurance 19                                                       69           92            115
Interest on Short-term Credit /10                6                 48           49              1
Subtotal                                     197              1,643        1 7            F
Net Income before Taxes                          570                213          765          1,312
Taxes Al                                        29                 11                       _ 66
Net Income                                       5                  202          727          1,246
For development of yields see Annex 6, Appendix 4, page 3.
a  For development of yields see Annex 8, Appendix 4, page 3.
3 Includes maintenance and repair for combine and sowing machine amounting to 5% of investment cost;
tractor operating costs Din 40/hour with an assumed tractor lifetime of 12 years.
/4 SkiUed labor at Din 15/hour and unskilled labor at Din 10/hour. Labor requirement 240 hours/ha
including pre-season picking.
/5  Premia amounting to 50% of wages.
Seedlings/ha amounting to Din 10,775.
;   Complex fertilizer' (8-8-8), 1,200 kg/ha at Din 1.35/kg.
Irrigation costs Din 700/ha, consisting of water charges and transport at Din 100/ha, maintenance
Din 170/ha and pumping Din 430/ha.
/9  Three percent of production value.
/1   Based on 50 of operating expenses for 6 months at an annual interest rate of 12%.
/11 Taxes and legal contributions 5% of net operating income.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Tomatoes (80 ha)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
J.         2                _4          5         '         7        _               9        10        11
------------------------- -   --------------Din '000- ----------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                               1,856    2,432    3,072    3,072    3,072    3,072    3,072            3,072        3,072    3,072    3,072
Long-term Loan /1                     1,764       --        --        --        --        --        --         --            --        --        --
Enterprise's Contribution /2            756       --        --        --        --        --        --         --            --        --        --
Short-term Loan                         822       834       880       880       880       880       880        880           880       880       880
Subtotal                           5,198    3.266    3,9                       3.9552    3.952   3=9523 2952                               3,952
Cash Outflow
Operating  Expenses                   1,643    1,667    1,760    1,760    1,760    1,760    1,760            1,760         1,760    1,760    1,760
Investments                           2,520       --        --        --        --        --        --       1,13)  /7      -        (66o) /7  --
Taxes                                     11        38        66       66        66        66        66          66           66        66        66
Short-term Loan Repayment               822       834       880       880       880       880       880        880           880       880       880
Debt Service
Interest                               86       172       172       130        84        34       --         --           --        --        --
;;4ncl al                             --        --        428       470       516       350       --         --           --        --        --
Subtotal                           5.082    2,711    3,306                    06    3090    2.706         2,706        2.706    2.706    2.706
Cash Flow                                   116       555       646       646       646       862          1.246              1.246 11246    1,246
Co_ulsory Allocations /3
Depreciation /4                          116       224       224      224        224      224        224        224          224       224       224
Business and Reserve Funds /5            --         10        26        27        28        30        31         31           31        31        31
Umaining for  Distribution /6               --        321       396       395       394       608       991        991           991       991       991
Kucremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return              (2,859)      176       679      678       677       675       674        (426)         674        14       674
C.  Prolected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:        157.
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs + 10%:    13%
Operating Expenses + 10%:   77
Revenues             - 107:   47.
/1  70% of investment costs at an annual interest rate of 9.75%.
/2 307. of investment costs.
13  According to  Yugoslav law.                                                                                                                                  ;"I2
71  Annual depreciation charge 12%  for machinery and 2%  for irrigation network.
T5  Based on 3% of net income minus long-term interest and depreciation charges.                                                                                  ,x
/6  Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
7T   Replacement investments financed  by depreciation fund.  They have not been included in the cash flow, but were included in the
financial rate of return calculation.
Aay 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Tomatoes (80 ha)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
Year 1
No. of               Cost per                        Foreign
Units                 Unit               Local     Exchange     Total
Tin 1'000           -Din'0 ----------Dn00   -  _
Investment Items
Combine                         1                   1,100                --        1,100      1,100
Sowing Machine                  1                     660                --          660        660
Pimp and Pipe Network          ha                       8               460          180        640
Subtotal                                                              Z         1,940      2,400
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                                 23           97        120
Total                                                                483        2,037      2,520
E. Development of Yields
Price Per                          Year
Unit         Unit      Pre-Project         1          2          3-16
Crop                                      ---Din- -      ---------------------100 kg/ha--------------
Wheat /1                         kg            2.4           40             --         __           _-
Tomatoes                         kg             .8                         290        38U          480       a   x
/1 Pre-project y-.elds of northern regions. In the southern regions yields are about 50-60 percent lower.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Irrigation (500 ha Northern Region)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project /1       1         2        3         4        5-20
_________________---- =   Din '000 ---------------------------
Revenue
Wheat /2                              1,974        1,974       950    1,267    1,584    1,584
Maize /3                                956          956       918    1,224    1,530    1,530
Sunflower                               300          300       --       --        --        --
Sugar Beets /4                          400          400    1,296    1,728    2,160    2,212
Alfalfa /5                              170          170       540      720       900       900
Maize Silage /6                         320          320       468      624       780       780
Maize Silage Catch Crop /7              --           _         648      864    1,080    1,080
Subtotal /8                        4,120        4,120    4,820    6,427    8.034    8,086
Operating Expenses
Seed /9                                 185          185       178      178       178       178
Fertilizers /10                         284          284       580      580       580       580
Protective Agents                        69           69       114      114       114       114
Services /11                            783          783    1,143    1,143    1,143    1,143
Insurance /12                           124          124       241      241       241       241
Labor /13                               387          387       920      920       920       920
General Costs /14                        82           82       225      225       225       225
Maintenance /15                         --           --        110       110      110       110
Operation /16                           --           --        171      171       171       171
Water Charges /17                       --           --         63       63        63        63
Irrigation Labor /18                    --           --        170      170       170       170
Interest Short-term Loan /19             54           54       120      120       120       120
Subtotal                           1,968        1.968    4  0      43       4  035        3
Net Income Before Taxes                  2,152        2,152       785    2,392    3,999    4,051
Less laxes /20                          108          108        39      120       200       203
Net Income                               2.044        2,044       746              3,7  9 9
/1   Pre-project 235/ha wheat at 3,500 kg per ha; 125 ha maize at 4,500 kg per ha;
50 ha sunflower at 2,000 kg per ha; 25 ha sugar beets at 40,000 kg per ha; 25 ha alfalfa
at 8,500 kg/ha; 40 ha maize silage at 40,000 kg/ha.
/2   120 ha wheat at 5,500 kg/ha at 2.4 Din at full development.
/3   150 ha corn at 6,ooo kg/ha at 1.7 Din at full development.
/4   90 ha sugar beets at 60,000 kg/ha at 0.4 Din at full development.
/5   75 ha alfalfa at 15,000 kg/ha at 0.8 Din at full development.
/6   65 ha maize silage at  60,000 kg/ha at 0.2  Din at full development.
/7   120 ha maize silage at 45,000 kg/ha at 0.2  Din second crop at full development.
/8   Crcpping intensity 125% at full development.
/9   Bared on Din 5.4/kg for wheat; Din 6.0/kg for maize; Din 75/kg for sugar beets; Din 37/kg
for alfalfa.
/10  Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) superphosphate (20%) at Din 1.12/kg.
/11  Land preparation, planting, cultivating, harvesting, crop transport.
/12  Abc,ut 3% of crop value at full development.
/13  33 laborers at 2,200 Din/month; 2 supervisors at 2,200 Din/month.
/14  Administration, supervision and miscellaneous small purchases.
/15  2.5% valued pump plant; 0.5% value of buried pipe; 3% value of movable pipe lines; 7%
va ue of sprinkler heads.
/16  Electricity, lubricants, and fuel.
/17  126 Din/ha.
/18  3 laborers at 3,000 Din/month; 1 at 3,500/month plus Din 20,000 for seasonal leLbor.
/19  6 nionths at 12% annual interest rate.
/20  Ta:ces 5% of net income before taxes.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Irrigation (500 ha Northern Region)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1          2          3         4           5          6          7          8        9-20
--------------------------------------Din '000-----------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                4,120       4,820      6,427     8,034      8,086      8,086      8,086      8,086      8,086
Long-term Loan /1                      5,142         --         --
Enterprise Contribution /2             2,203         --         --       --          --         --         --         --         --
Short-term Loan                          900       2Q000      2,000     2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Subtotal                          12.365       6,820      8,427    10,034    10J086    10,086    10,086    10.086    10,086
Cash Outflow
Operating  Expenses                    1,968       4,035      4,035    4,035       4,035      4,035      4,035      4,035      4,035
Investments                            7,345         -          -         -           -         -                     -
Taxes                                    108          39        120       200         203        203       203         203       203
Short-term Loan Repayment                900       2,000      2,000    2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Debt Service
Interest                               250         501        501       501        404        297        180          51       __
Principal                              --          --         --        999      1,096    1203        1,320         524        __
Subtotal                          10T7         6,575         656    T735 775738            7,738                 b,613      6,238
Cash Flow                                 1,794         245      1,771    2,299        2,348      2 348     2.348       3,2'(3    3,848
Compulsory Allocation /3
Depreciation                              74         147        147       147         147        147        147        147        147
Business and Reserve Funds /5             52           3         49        95          99        102        105        109        115
Remaining for Distribution  /6            1,668          95      1,575    2,057        2,102      2,099      2,096      3,017      3f586
Incremental Cash Flow                    (7,397)    (1,301)        179    1,660        1,705      1,702      1,699      1,695      1,689
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 14%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs + 10%: 13%
Operating Costs  + 10%:  6%
Revenue           - 10%:  4%
/1   70% of investment costs at 9.75% interest rate.
/2   30% of investment costs.
/3   According to Yugoslav law.
/4   Annual depreciation at  2% of investment costs.
/5   Amount to 3% of net income minus long term interest and depreciation.
/6   Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.                                                                                OD
Nay 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Irrigation (500 ha Northern Region)
D.  Investments
Year
1
Foreign
Investment Items                No. of Units       Cost per Unit       Local       Exchange       Total
-----Din-----       ------------Din  OOO----------
Sprinkler Lines Hand Moved       12,420 m                  140          1,252          487        1,739
Outlet Valves Main Line              105 ea              2,125            172           51           223
Main Line Asbesto-Cement           5,740 m                 534          2,513          552         3,065
Pipe Installation (buried)         5,740 m                 148            697          153           850
Pumping Plant                          3 ea            116,875            252           98           350
Relief Valves                          6 ea              1,594              7            3            10
Miscellaneous                       --                 425,000            213          212           425
Engineering Services                                                      333                        333
Subtotal                                                             5,439        1,556        6,995
Physical Contingency 5%                                                   272           78           350
Total                                                                5.711        1,634         7.345
May 1975



ANNE 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Irrigation (500 ha Southern Region)
A. Projected Income Statement
/I                  Y e a r
Pre-Project      1            2             3          4           5-20
-------------------------------- Din  %0O0------------
Revenue
Wheat /2                                          1,14o        1,14o          867        1,156        1,445        i,445
Maize 73                                            19G          190          514          685          857          857
Barley                                              262          262          196          261          326          326
Tobacco7                                            160          160          360          480          6o0          6oo
Cotton                                               29           29           88          117          146          146
Sugarbeets /7                                        -            -           922        1,229        1,536        1,560
Tomatoes /8-                                                      -           461          614          768          840
Alfalfa   9-                                                -                 605          806        1,008        1,008
Maize Silage /10                                     -            -           600          800        1,000        1,000
Uncultivated Pasture /11                             48           48           -            -            -            -
Subtotal  12_                                                          _,613       9714         _7,9
Operating Expenses
Seed                                                114          114          449          449          449          449
Fertilizers /i4                                     153          153          577          577          577          577
Protective Agents                                    43           43          126          126          126          126
Services /15                                        310          310        1,088        1,o88        1,088        1,088
Insurance /16                                        54           54          234          234          234          234
Labor /17                                           276          276          920          920          920          920
General Costs  X                                     45           45          275          275          275          275
Maintenance  1                                       -            -           125          125          125          125
Operations  =0                                       _            -           250          250          250          250
Water Charges   1                                    -            -            63           63           63           63
Irrigation Labor /22                                 -            -           170          170          170          170
Interest Short-term Loan /23                         30           30          132          132          132          132
Subtotal                                     1,025       1,025        ___0_        ___0_         4W          ___0_
Net Income Before Taxes                                804          804          204        1,739        3,277        3,373
Less Taxes /24                                       40           40           10           87          164          169
Net Income                                            _7__2                                 1,752        33,20Oa
Ll   Pre-projectl90 ha wheat at 2500 kg per ha; 40 ha maize @ 2800 kg per ha; 55 ha barley @ 2800 kg per ha;
10 ha tobacco @ 800 kg per ha; 10 ha cotton @ 400 kg per ha; and 195 ha uncultivated pasture N 600 kg per ha.
/2   140 ha @ 4300 kg per ha @ 2.4 Din per kg at full development.
3 90 ha . 5600 kg per ha N 1.7 Din per kg at full development.
40 ha N 4800 kg per ha N 1.7 Din per kg at full development.
5 20 ha N 1500 kg per ha @ 20.0 Din per kg at full development.
20 ha @ 1000 kg per ha @ 7.3 Din per kg at full development.
7   80 ha    50030kg per ha N 0.4 Din per kg at full development.
/    20 ha @ 52500 kg per ha N 0.8 Din per kg at full development.
9   55 ha N 23000 kg per ha N 0.8 Din per kg at full development
10  125 ha N 40000 kg per ha N 0.2 Din per kg at full development.
1  All land is cultivated in project.
Cropping intensity 125% at full development.
Based on 6.0 Din per kg for maize, 5.4 Din per kg for wheat, 3.7 Din per kg for alfalfa, 3.7 Din per kg for barley,
Din per kg for tobacco, 80 Din per kg for cotton.
/14  Complex fertilizer (8 - 8 - 8) at .35 Din per kg; superphosphate (20%) @ 1.12 Din per kg.
15  Land preparation, planting, cultivating, harvesting and transport.
7Q 3% of crop value at full development.
f1   33 laborers at 2000 Din per month and 2 workers at 2200 Din per month.
7I& Miscellaneous consumable items.
m 9  2.5 value of pump plant, 0.5% burried pipe, 3% value of movable pipelines, 7% value of sprinkler heads.
r Administration, supervision and miscellaneous small purchases.
21 126 Din per ha.
m 3 laborers at 3000 Din per month, 1 at 3500 Din per month plus Din 20,000 for seasonal labor.
7; Seasonal short-term loans 6 months N 12% annual interest rate.
[04 Taxes 5% of net income before taxes.
may 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICUITURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVTA
Model: Irrigatiorn (500 ha Southern Region)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
1            2            3            4            5            6             7            8             9          10-20
----------------------------Din'000--------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                    1,829        4,613        6,148        7,686        7,782         7,782        7,782        7,782         7,782        7,782
Long-term Loan /I                         5,929           --           --           --            --           --           __            _            __           __
Enterprise Contribution /2                2,541           __           __           __            __           __           __            _            __           __
Short-term Loan                              500        2 200        2 200        2,200        2 200         2,200        2_20-        2,200         2,200        2,200
Subtotal                           710,799        6,1          8,34                       9,982        9,982        9,982         9,982        9,982        9,982
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                        1 ,025        4,409        4,409        4,409        4,409         4,409        4,409        4,409         4,409        4,409
Investments                               8,470           --           --           --            _-           _-           _-            -            _-            -
Taxes                                         40           10           87          164           169          169          169           169          169          169
Short-term Loan Repayment                    500        2,200        2,200        2,200         2,200        2,200       :2,200        2,200         2,200        2,200
Debt Service
Interest                                289            578          578          578          488           390          ;81           162           32          __
Principal                               -_             -_           --           922        1 012        1 110         1 219        1 338           328          --
Subtotal                         0,327        7,197        7,274        8,273           8          81T                        87,179                      7738
Cash Flow                                       475        ( 384)       1,074         1,613        1,704        1,704         1;704        1,704        2,844         3,204
Compulsory Allocation a
Depreciation /4                               60          --           119           119          119          119           119          119          119           119
Business and Reserve Funds                    13            _      _    29            72           79           82            85           88           92            93
Remaining for Distribution  _6____ 0)                                      926              7      1,506        1,503         1,500        1,47                       2 3992
____              ___          1422         ___           ___          ___            -             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_&  _?_j _  ,9
Incremental Cash Flow                        (8,483)       ( 570)          859        2,277        2,361        2,358         2,355        2,352        2,348         2,347
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return                     :  193
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs           +10%              17T
Operating Expenses         +10%           :  13%
Revenue                    -10%           :  11%
70  of investment costs 0 9.75% interest rate.
25. 30% of investment costs.
77   According to Yugoslav Law.
74   Annual depreciation @ 2% of investment costs.
5   Amount to 3% of net income minus long-term interest and depreciation.
Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
May 1975 ;



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Irrigation (500 ha Southern Region)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
Y e a r
1
Investment Items                          No. of Units  Cost per Unit        Local   Foreign Exchange   Total
---- Din            ------------- Din 000-----------
Sprinkler Lines, Hand Moved                 12,1420 m           140          1,252           487          1,739
Outlet Valves Main Line                        105 ea         2,125             172           51            223
Maintenance Asbesto-Cement                   5,740 m            700           3,295          723          4,018
Pipe Installation (buried)                   5,740 m            148             697          153            850
Pumping Plant                                    3 ea       138,125             298          116            414
Relief Valves                                    6ea          1,594               7            3             10
Miscellaneous                                  -            425,000             213          212            425
Inflow canal                                    60m              70               4          -                4
Engineering Services                                          -                 384                         384
Subtotal                                                                6,7322                       t,067
Physical Contingency 5%                                                         316           87            403
Total                                                                                 1,3 =2         8,470
May 1975
A X
x o
ol



ANNEX 8
Appendix 7
Page 1
APPRAISEL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model:  Social Sector Drainage (750 ha Open-Closed System-Heavy Soi)s)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project II /1        1                   2                  3                   4             5-20
-------------------------------------------- --Din '000 ------------------------------------------
Revenue
Marsh Land /2                                  4                  4                  -                   -                   -              -
Wheat /3                                    900                 900               1,440               1,555              2,074           2,592
Maize /4                                     714                714               1,005               1,077              1,436           1,795
Maize Silage Catchcrop /5                    --                 --                   -                  720                 960          1,200
Alfalfa /6                                  320                 320                 896                 941              1,254           1,568
Maize Silage /7                              --                 --                  765                 806              1,075           1,344
Subtotal /8                          1,938              1,938               4 106               5,099               6,799          8,499
Operating Expenses
Seed/9                                      118                 118                 261                 261                 261            261
Fertilizers /10                             265                 265                 591                 591                591             591
Protective Agents                            53                  53                 135                 135                 135            135
Services /11                                528                 528               1,222              1,222               1,222           1,222
Insurance /12                                59                  59                 255                 255                 255            255
Labor /13                                   466                 466               1,092               1.092              1,092           1 092
General Costs /14                            54                  54                 245                 245                 245            245
Maintenance of Drains                         --                  --                255                 255                 255            255
Interest Short-term  Loan /15                42                  42                 108                 108                1D8             108
Subtotal                             1,585              1,585               4,164               4,164               4,164          4,164
Net Income Before Taxes                           353                 353                 (58)               935               2,635          4,335
Less Taxes /16                                18                 18                  --                  47                 132            217
Net Income                                        335                 335                 (58)               888               2,503          4,118
/1  350 ha Marsh land @25 kg/ha, 50 ha wheat @2500 kg/ha 150 ha maize @2800 kg/ha, 100 ha alfalfa @4000 kg/ha.
/2  Marsh land developed during 1st year and put into production in 2nd year.
/3  270 ha wheat @4000 kg in 5th year @2.4Din/kg at full development.
/4  240 ha maize @4400 kg in 5th year @1.7 Din/kg at full development.
/5  150 ha maize silage @ OOOO kg/ha second crop @1 0.2 Din/kg at full development.
/6  100 ha alfalfa @19600 kg 4 0.8 Din/kg at full development.
/7  140 ha maize silage @48000 kg/ha @0.2 Din/kg at full development.
/8  Project cropping intensity of 1207.
/9  Based on Din 5.4/kg for wbeat, Din 6.0/kg for maize and Din 37 for alfalfa.
/10  Complex  fertilizer (8-8-8) @ Din 1.35/kg,superphosphate (207%) Din 1.12/kg.
/11  Including land preparation, cultivation, harvesting and transport.
/12  3% of production value at full development.
/13  41 workers @2000 Din/month; 4 workers 4 2,250 Din/month.
/14  Administration, supervision and miscellaneous small purchases.
/15  Seasonal short-term  loans 6 months @12% annual interest rate.
/16  Taxes 57, of net operating income.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Drainage (750 ha Open-Closed System-Heavy Soils)
B. Projected Cash Flow
Year
1           2            3           4            5           6            7            8            9          10           11          12-20
----------------------------------------------------------Din '000-------------------------------______--________________________________
Cash Inflow
Revenues                        1,938        4,106       5,099        6,799        8,499       8,499        8,499        8,499       8,499        8,499        8,499        8,499
Long-term Loan /1               7,858          --           --          --           --           --          --           --           --          --           --
Enterprise Contribution /2      3,367          --           --          --           --           __          __           __           __          __           __           __
Short-term Loan                   700        1,800       1,800        1,800        1,800       1,800        1,800        1,800       1,800        1,800        1,800        1,800
Subtotal                  13,863        5,906       6,899        8,599      10,299       10,299       10,299      10,299       10,299       10,299       10,299      10,299
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses              1,585        4,164       4,164        4,164        4,164       4,164        4,164        4,164       4,164        4,164        4,164        4,164
Investments                    11,225                             --           --          -_
Taxes                               18          --           47         132          217          217         217          217          217         217          217          217
Short-term Loan Repayment         700        1,800        1,800       1,800        1,800        1,800       1,800        1,800       1,800        1,800        1,800        1,800
Debt Service
Interest                        383          766          766         766          766         675          575          465         345          213           70          --
Principal                       --           -            --          __           934       1,025        1,125        1,235        1,355       1,487          697          __
Subtotal                  13,911        6,730       6,777        6,862        7,881       7,881        7,881        7,881       7,881        7,881        6,948       6,181
Cash Flow                                t48)       (824)        122        1,737       2,418        2,418       2,418        2,418        2,418        2,418       3,351        4,118
Compulsory Allocations /3
Depreciation /4                    --          --           122         224          224          224         224          224          224         224          224          224
Business and Reserve Funds /5    --            --           --           45           94           97         100          103          106          110         115          117
Remaining for Distribution /6             0           0            0        1,468       2,100        2,097       2,094        2,091        2,088        2,084       3,012        3,777
Incremental Cash Flow               (11,225)        (393)        553       2,123        3,689        3,686       3,683        3,680        3,677        3,673       3,668        3,666
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return           20%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs + 107,     :  1971
Operating Expenses + 1070   : 177%
Revenue             - 107,   :  157
J1  7071 of investment costs (a9.751 interest rate.
/2  3075  of investment costs.
/3  According to Yugoslav law.
/4  Annual depreciation 27, of investment costs.
/5  Based on 3% of net income less long-term  interest and depreciation.
/6  Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
P.)
Ha1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Drainage (750 ha Open-Closed System-Heavy Soils)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
Year
Foreign
Investment Items                     No. of Units      Cost per Unit       Local      Exchange       Total
------Din-----      ----------Din 'ooo-----------
Open ditch-tertiary                     22,500  -                35          646          142          788
Land preparation (350 ha)               87,500 m                 10          718          157          875
Subsurface drainage
(Plastic L8 m  spaeing)              450,000 u                 16.3     6,015         1,320        7,335
Outlets                                       7                 160            1          -              1
Access Roads                             18,750 m                63          969          213        1,182
Engineering Services                                                         509          -            509
Subtotal                                                             8,858         1,832      10,690
Physical contingency (5%)                                                    443           92          535
Total                                                                9,301         1,924       11,225       |
=~~~~~~~lJa
M   < ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ]o



ANNEX 8
Appendix 8
Page I
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Drainage (750 ha Open Drains Heavy Soils)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project L      1          2          3          4         5-20
---------------------------Din '000--------------------------
Revenue
Wheat  2                              1,296        1,296      1,368      1,642      2,189      2,736
Maize 5                                 425          425        861      1,032      1,377      1,721
Pastures                                 15           15        __         __         __         __
Meadows                                  60           60        --         --         --         --
Maize Silage  4                         375          375        563        675       9go       1,125
Maize Silage Catch Crop /5              --           --         600        720         960     1,200
Sugar Beets /6                          250          250        600        720        960      1,200
Tomatoes /7                             --           --         400        480        640        800
Subtotal L8                              2, 42      1      4,392      5,269      7,026
Operating Expenses
Seed  9                                 203          203        576        576        576        576
Fertilizer /10                          384          384        739        739         739        739
Protective Agents                        72           72        161        161        161        161
Services /<                             728          728      1,440      1,440      1,440      1,440
Insurance=                               71           71        264        264        264        264
Labor /13                               420          420      1,380      1,380      1,380      1,380
General Costs /14                        82           82        346        346        346        346
Maintenance of Drains                   --           --         340        340        340        340
Pumping Costs /15                       --           --          81         81         81         81
Interest Short-term Loan /16             54           54        156        156        156        156
Subtotal                           2,014        ,401       5 3        5,73       5,473      5
Net Income Before Taxes                    407           407    (1,091)       (214)    1,543       3 29c,
Less Taxes /17                        20           20        --         --          77
Net Income                                 387          387    (1 091)        (214)    1,466
/l  Pre-project 300 ha wheat at 1,800 kg/ha, 100 ha maize at 2,500 kg/ha, 50 ha pastures at 600 kg/ha,
150 ha meadows at 800 kg/ha, 50 ha uncultivated, 75 ha maize silage at 2,500 kg/ha, 25 ha sugar beets at
2,500 kg/ha.
2  300 ha wheat at 3,800 kg/ha at 2.4 Din/kg at full development.
/3  225 ha maize at 4,500 kg/ha at 1.7 Din/kg at full development.
125 ha maize silage at 45,000 kg/ha at 0.2 Din/kg at full development.
5 150 ha maize silage catch crop at40,000 kg/ha at 0.2 Din/kg at full development.
75 ha sugar beets at 40,000 kg/ha at 0.4 Din/kg at full development.
7 25 ha tomatoes at 40,000 kg/ha at 0.8 Din/kg at full development.
Cropping intensity 120%.
9 Based on Din 5.4/kg for wheat, Din 6.0/kg far maize, Din 75/kg sugar beets on Din 269 for tomato plants.
1   Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35/kg and superphosphate (20%) at Din 1.12/kg.
Including land preparation, cultivation, harvesting and transport.
2  3% of crop value at full development.
1   49 workers at 2,000 Din/month, 4 workers at 2,200 Din/month, 2 workers at 2,500 Din/month and 10
seasonal workers at 2,000 Din/month.
/14  Administration, supervision and miscellaneous small purchases.
/15  Pumping 3,000 m3/ha of water.
/16  seasonal short-term loans 6 months at 12% annual interest rate.
/17  Taxes 5% of net operating income.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 8
Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Drainage (750 ha Open Drains Heavy Soils)
B. Projected Cost Flow Statement
Year
1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8        9      10-20
Din '0OO        -                          -
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                2,421    4,392    5,269    7,026    8,782    8,782    8,782    8,782   8,782    8,782
Long-term Loan A                       3,808       --       --        --       --        __        __       __      __        __
Enterprise Contribution 2              1,632       --       --        --       --        -_       --        __      _         __
Short-term Loan                          900    2600    2 600    2 600    2,600    2 600    2,600    2,600   2 600    2,600
Subtotal                                     6,992                                          113T2   11,382 l
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                     2,014    5,483    5,483    5,483    5,483    5,483    5,483    5,483   5,483    5,483
Investments                            5,440      --        --        --       --        __       __        __      __        __
Taxes                                     26       --       --         77      165       165      165       165     165       165
Short-term Loan Repayment                900    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600   2,600    2,600
Debt Service:  Interest                  185      371       371       371      371       310      243       169      88       --
Principal                --        -_       -_        -_       629       690      757       831      901      __
Subtotal                            TO       oT                                              9         .24L  9,27    W85l,
Cash Flow                                   196   (1.462)    (585)   1,095    2,134    2,134    2,134    2,134   2,145    3,134
Compulsory Allocations                       37
Depreciation  4                           38       _76                          76        76        76       76       76       76
Business and Reserve Funds /5              5       --       --         31        81       82        84       87       89       92
Remaining for Distribution               153   (1,462)    (575)  -TS   17 77  1776                   4   T 9T71 1Tg         2,966
Incremental Cash Flow for Financial
Rate of Return                        (5,444)  (1,471)    (594)   1,055    2,673    2,672    2,670    2,667   2,665    2,662
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 22%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs +10%: 21%
Operating Costs  +106:  15%
Revenue           -10%:  13%
1 70% of investment costs at 9.75% interest rate.
2i 30% of investment costs.
aAccording to Yugoslav law.
EAnnual depreciation 2% of investment costs.
5 Based on 3% of net income less long-term interest and depreciation.
Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
May 1975,



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Drainage (750 ha Open Drains Heavy Soils)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
Year 1
Foreign
Investment Items          No. of Units       Cost Per Unit  Local        Exchge         Total
--I- in--Din'------              00------
Open Main Drains              4,500 m              98         362            79           441
Open Secondary Drains         7,500 m              46         283            62           345
Open Tertiary Drains         22,500 m              35         646           142           788
Access Roads                 18,750 m              63          968          213         1,181
Pump Station                      1           682,500         492           191           683
Camber Bedding
Ploughing                  3,000 hr            156         384            84           468
Field Ditch              300,000 m               0.5       123            27           150
Turn Strip                 6,750 m             130         720           158           878
Engineering Services                                           247           __           247
Subtotal                                              4,225                      5,1tml
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                       211           48           259        MX C
Total                                                 4,436         1004         5c44
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Apedx 9
Page J.
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Land Development (500 ha Non-Irrigated)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project /1    1         2         3        4        5-20
--- -----------_---Din '000- --__________                -
Revenue
Wheat /2                        1,200    1,200    1,070    1,426    1,783    1,812
Maize t                           298       298       541      721       9(1      956
Maize Silage /4                   200       200       374      499       624      658
Alfalfa a                          --       --        144      192       240      295
'Jncultivated Pasture /6            45       45       --       --        ---      --
Subtotal                     3,743    1,743    2,129    235    v             3,721
Operating Expenses
Seed /7                           105       105      158       158      158       158
Fertilizers /8                     48        48      157       157       157      157
Protective Agents                   8         8        51       51        51       51
Services /9                       297       297      494       494       4'34     494
Insurance /10                      51        51      107       107       107      107
Labor /11                         274       274       531      531       531      531
General Costs /12                  30        30       90        90        30       90
Interest Short-term Loan /13       24        24       48        48        48       48
Subtotal                       837       837    1,63      1,6363
Net Income Before Taxes               9D6      906       493    1,202    1,912    2,085
Less Taxes /14                     45        45       25        60        96      104
Net Income                            o61             --        1,142    I         2
==~~~~~~~~1=
/1  Assumes need for organization of land, unproductive land 150 ha, 250 ha wheat
at 2,000 kg/ha, 50 ha maize at 3,500 kg/ha, 50 ha maize silage at 20,000 kg/ha.
/2  250 ha wheat at 2.970 kg/ha in 4th year at 2.4 Din/kg and increases to 3,020
kg/ha in year 5.
/3  100 ha maize at 5,300 kg/ha in 4th year at 1.7 Din/kg and increases to 5,624
kg/ha in year 5.
L2  100 ha maize silage at 31,200 kg/ha in 4th year at 0.2 Din/kg and increases to
32,900 kg/ha in year 5.
/5  50 ha alfalfa at 6,000 kg/ha in 4th year at 0.8 Din/kg and increases to 7,375
ks/ha in year 5.
6  45 ha of uncultivated land will go into production as result of investment.
B Based on Din 6.0 kg for maize, Din 5.4/kg for wheat and Din 37/kg for alfalfa.
Application varies by region.
8  Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35/kg; superphosphate (20t) at Din 1.12/kg.
/ Ilcluding land preparation, cultivation and harvesting.
3' of production value at full development.
1' workers at 2,000 Din/month and 2 workers at 2,250 Din/month.
Alministration, supervision and miscellaneous small purchases.
Saasonal short-term loans 6 months at 12% annual interest rate.
E14  Taxes 5% of net operating income.
I Mv 1975



ANNEX 8
Pae2
APPPAIEAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PR0JECT
YUGO0LAVIA
Model: Social Sector Land Development (500 ha Non-Irrigated)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1          2_ _ _4                             5           6          7 ______9-20
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Din     'GOCO- -- - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                    1,743       2,129       2,838       3,548      3,721       3,721       3,721       3,721       3,721
Long-term Loan /                           2,458         __          __          __          __         __          __          __          __
Enterprise Contribution L                  1,054         -_          __          __          __         __          __          __          __
Short-term Loan                              400         800         800         800        800         800         800         800         800
Subtotal                                5,655       2,929          3         3                     4,521       4,521       4,521       4,52
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                           837       1,636       1,636       1,636      1,636       1,636       1,636       1,636       1,636
Investments                                3,512         --          __          __         __          __          __          __
Taxes                                         45          25          35          96        104         104         104         104         104
Short-term Loan Repayment                    400         800         800         800        800         800         800         800         800
Debt Service
Interest                                    120         240         240         240        240         175         105          27         __
Principal                                   --          --          --          --         660         725         795         278         __
Sub;otal                                4,914       2,701       2,711      2,772       3,440       3,440        3,440      2,845       2,540
Cash Flow                                        741        228          927      1,576      1,081       1,081       1,081       1,676       1,981
Compulsory Allocations 2
Depreciation /4                                35         70          70          70          70          70         70          70          70
Business and Reserve Punds L                  21           5          10          45          50         52          54          57          57
Remaining for Distribution /6         6     8      5        153         847       -          _4_1_          959        957      I_7_I        1,5
Incremental Cash Flow                         (3,533)      (398)        296         91o      1,070       1,068       1,066       1,063       1,063
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return      20%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs  +10%      19%
Operating Expenses +10%:   14%
Revenue   -10%              12%
/1  704, of investment costs at 9.75% interest rate.
7r 30% of investment costs.
r7 According to Yugoslav law.
75 Annual depreciation 2% of investment costs.
Based on 3% of net income less long-term interest and depreciation.
,7  Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Land Development (500 ha Non-Irrigated)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
Year 1
Foreign
Investment Items                   No. of Units      Cost Per Unit            Local           Exchange                 Total
-    Din -----          ---------------Din '000-------------------
Land Leveling
Heavy 100 ha                      70,000 m3              10                 574               126                     700
Medium 100 ha                     45,000 m3              10                 369                81                     450
Light 300 ha                      60,000 m3              10                 492               108                     600
Surveying and mapping                500 ha             500                 250                                       250
Clearing Land (150 ha)               150 ha          1,900                  233                52                     285
Fiunctional Drainage              15,000 m               20                 246                54                     300
Access Roads                      15,000 m               40                 492               108                     600
Engineering Services                                                        160                                       160
Subtotal                                                               2,81               529                   3,345
Physical Contingency (5%)                                                   141                26                     167
Total                                                                  2,957               555                   3,512
May 1975                                                                                                                  N Id



ANNEX 8
Appendix 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Cold Storage Facility (3000 ton)
A. Projected Income Statement
Y e a r
1          2            3          4         5-15
___________________ Din-' - -35   _------.--___----____
Revenue
Paprika A                                       --         6,563       9,375       9,375       9,375
Green Beans  e-                                           8,312      11,875      11,875      11,875
Carrots L3                                     --         3,500       5,003       5,()      5,000
Strawberry / 4-                                           9,625      13,750      13,75(      13,750
Peas  5                                                   8,225      11 750      11 750      11,750
Subtotal                                  -3 25                 5'                      51,750
Operating Expenses
Raw Materials                                  --        22,060      31,510      31,510      31,510
Packing Materials                              --         4,980       7,120       7,120       7,120
Electricity  7                                  -             80         115        11i          115
Water /8                                        --           217         310         310         310
Steam S                                        --           228         325         325          325
Labor                                           -         1,900        2,200      2,200       2,200
Maintenance                                     --           80C         950         950         950
Short-term Loan Interest   L                   --         1,26o         860       1 86)       1 860
Subtotal                      __                    31,525 25 94.3
Net Income Before Taxes                            --         4,700       7,360       7,360D      7,360
Less Taxes   2                                  --           235         368         363         368
Net Income                                         --                     6,992                       2
1   Selling price processed 7.5 Din per kg - 1250 tons per year.
2   Selling price processed 9.5 Din per kg - 1250 tons per year.
/3   Selling price processed 4.0 Din per kg - 1250 tons per year.
3   Selling price processed 11.0 Din per kg - 1250 tons per year.
X    Selling pricE processed 9.4 Din per kg - 1250 tons per year.
1625 tons paprica, 1500 tons shelled peas, 1750 tons green beans, 1625 tons strawberries,
2000 tons carrots.
f7   960 000 '   @ 0.12 Din per  KWH.
705,000 mcy @ 0.44 Din per mr
Dj~  637,000 kg @ 0.51 Din per kg.
ro   27 permanent workers and 96 seasonal workers.
Jz    31,000,000 Din for 6 months C 12% annual interest rate.
Taxes 5% of net income before taxes.
Hay 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AY. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSALVIA
Model: Social Sector Cold Storage Facility (3000 Ton)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
1          2          3          4           5          6           7 a                   9          10        11 - 15
_____________________________________-------------- DinfOOO----------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                      --       36,225     51,750     51,750      51,750     51,750      51,750     51,750     51,750      51,750     51,750
Long-term Loan  1                          24,042       --                      --                               --         --
Enterprise Contribution 2                  10,304       --         --          --         --         --          - -        - -         - 
Short-term Loan a-                                    21,000     31,00       31,000     31 000     31.000      31,000     31,000     31 000      31,000     31,000
Subtotal                             3           57,225      2 ,750    82,750      82,750      50        82,750       750        25        82750        2^75
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                           __       31,525     44,390     44,390      44,390     44,390     44,390      44,390     44,390      44,390     44,390
Investments                                34,346       --          -    -         -    -      -    -     -      --         __          _          _ _        _ 
Taxes                                        --          235        368        368         368        368         368       368         368         368        368
Short-term Loan Repayment                    -        21,000     31,000     31,000      31,000     31,000      31,000     31,000     31,000      31,000     31,000
Debt Service
Interest                                 1,172      2,344      2,344      2,124       1,883      1,618      1,327       1.008        658         273       --
Principal                                   2- --              2256       2 476       2,717      2,982      3,273       3,592      3,942       2,804       __
Subtotal                              35,515     55,104                8 0,3                   0,355  8 0,355 o  O,358    o 75,535 f7
Cash Flow                                     (1,172)     2,121      2,392       2,392      2,392      2,392       2,392      2,392      2,392       3,915      6,992
Compulsory Allocation /4
Depreciation                                           i -  1,400  1,400      1,4oo      1,400      1,400       1,400      1,400       1,400      1,400      1,400
Business and Reserve Funds                   _            21         97         104        111        119         128        138         148        160         168
Remaining for Distributions                     -           700        895         888        881        873         864        854         844      2,355       5,424
Incremental Cash Flow                        (34,346)     4,444      6,895      6,889       6,882      6,874       6,866      6,856      6,846       6,834      6,824
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return                     18%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs          +10%         : 16%
Operating Expenses        +10%             3%
Revenue                   -10%         :  0%
70% of investment costs @ 9.75% interest rate.                                                                                                                       a  CD 
2   30% of investment costs.
Seasonal credit @ 12% annual interest rate.                                                                                                                             M
According to Yugoslaw law.
Annual depreciation 2% buildings and 7% equipment.
53ased on 3% of net income less long-term interest and depreciation.
Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocations.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROWECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Cold Storage Facility (3000 ton)
D. Investments
Y e a r
Investment Items                                              Local   Foreign Exchauige   Total
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------ ' ---Di-'u --------
Civil Works
Land preparation                                              400         --              400
Cold Rooms                                                  3,898          952          4,850
Machine Room                                                  552            98           650
Office                                                        340           60            400
Processing Room                                             1,400          500          1,900
Boiler Room                                                 1,308          192          1,500
Dry Storage Room                                              270           30            300
Transformer Station                                           171           19            190
Fencing                                                       160           15            175
Roads                                                         369           81            450
Subtotal                                                                             1.7815
Equipment
Scale                                                         415          135            550
Sewage System                                                 510           90            600
Electrical System                                             520           130           65o
Refrigeration                                               1,020        4,o80          5,100
Processing                                                  4,655        8,645         13,300
Small tools and Hand Equipment                                100         --              100
Subtotal                                                7,220        13,080         20,300
Other__l                                                                                               H 
Engineering Services                                        1 435           160         1,595    m i 
Physical Contingency 5%                                       876           760         1,636  l
Subtotal                                                  2,311          920          3,231        X
Total                                                         18,399        1S,947 37J34
Eq   , 



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model:  Grain Drying Facility (30,DDO Tons A-nnually)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
1            2            3            4           5           6-15
---------------------------- Din '000 ----------------------------
Revenue
Maize /1                                  3,060       5,100        5,100        5,100       5,100        5,100
Subtotal                               3,o60       5,10D        5,100       5,100        5,100        5,100
Operating Expenses
Fuel  2                                   1,491       2,295        2,295       2,295        2,295        2,295
Gear oil                                      1           2            2           2             2           2
Grease                                        1           1            1           1             1           1
Electric Power   3                          310         493          493         493          493          493
Labor   /4                                  569         875          875         875          875          875
Maintenance   A                             104          165         165         165           165         i65
Transport                                    72         110          110         110          110          110
Miscellaneous                               118         165          165         165          165          165
Subtotal                              2~ 4,1T                   4,107      4             _,106        4T0
Net Income Before Taxes                        394          994         994         994           994          994
Less Taxes                                   20          50           50          50            50          50
Net Income                                     374          944         944         944           944          944
/1  3000 tons at 1700 Din per ton - lo% annual throughput - this quantity would
be lost in storage dine to high m'oisture content.
2g  850 tons per year at 2700 Din per ton.
3  822,000 kWh at 0.6 Din per kWh.                                                                                             5 X x
23 staff and laborers.                                                                                                   H a m
;5  Civil works 2% per year, equipment 6O/ per year.
Taxes 5% of net income before taxes.                                                                                        ,
May 1975



ABBE 8
Page 2
APPFAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTHRAI CRFlIT PROJECT
YUlGOSLkVI.A
Model: Grain Drying Facility (30,000 Tons Annually)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1           2          3           4        Y              6         7              W        9
- -.._- -- _ - ----_-.- --- -- - - ---- -- ---- = -- ----- Din  ' 000 - -- - --  - -- ---- - - - ----- -- - ------ -- - ----
Cash Inflow
BRvenue                                             3,060       5,100       5,100      5,100       5,100       5,100     5,100       5,100       5,100
Long-Term Loan /1                                   2,490          --          --         --          __          __        __           _          __
Enterprise ContWbution  2                           1 o67          -_          -          --          -           --         --         --          --
Subtotal                                         e7           =5        10 5,10                 5=00      _5,100    _5,100   5,1007
C.aBh outflow
Operating Erpenses                                  2,666       4,106      4,106       4,106       4,106      4,106      4,106       4,io6       4,106
Investments                                         3.557          __           _         __          __          -_        __          __
Dazes                                                  20          50          50         50          50          50         50         50          50
Debt Service
Interest                                            121         243         243        211         176         138        95          5D          __
Principal                                            -_          __        325         357         392         430       473         5-
Subtotal                                                                                        4, _14     TA 4,2     47             g        4____
Cash Flow                                                  253        701        376         376        376         376        376         380        944
Compulsory Allocation                                       84
Depreciation  /4                                         87       174         174        174         174         174       174         174         174
Business and Reserve Funds  /5                            5        16          16         17          18          19        20          22          23
Remaining for Distribution  /6                             161        511        186         185        184         183        182        184         747
In:icremental Cash Flow                                 (3,188)      928         928        927         926         925       924         922         921
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Fianil  ae of Return:     2$
Sensitivity Tests:
Investment Costs  +10%:      255%
Operating Expenses + 10%:   12%
Revenue   - 10%:              8%
/1 70% of investment costs at 9.75% interest rate.
2X 30% of investment costs.
According to Yugoslav law.
Annual depreciation of investment costs at 2% for civil works and 7% for equipment.
4  Amount to 3% of net income minus long term interest and depreciation.
Available for distribution to workers and other voluntary allocation.
MV 1975



ANEX 8
Pap 
APPR&=   01
AN AGRICULRAL CRO IT PRJECT
ILOOSLAVIA
Model: Grain Drying Facility (30,000 Tons Annually)
D. Investments
Investment Items          No. of Units   Cost per Unit    Local  Foreiffn Exhange  Total
__mn - ------------ Din 000 ---------
Civil Worka                100 K             1,900          171           19          190
Equipment                     --                --        1,310          790        2,100
Fuel System               3000 1                67          110           90          200
Access Roads      .       4000 m2               50          164           36          200
Installation                  __--                          486           54          540
Engineering S rvices    .                                     98          --           98
Training                      __                __           60           --           60
Subtotal                                                              9 9
Physical Contingency 5%                                     120           b99
Total                                                  L2           1033,557
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJEQT
JUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Milk Collection Station (3,000 liter capacity)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
1        2        3        4-2 0
------=Din  0=---- :--
Revenue
1ilk /1                   32.8    65.8       98.6      131.4
Subtotal                32.6  63            K        131.4
Operating Expenses
Electricity /2              7.3     9.7      11.7       14.6
Wkter /3                   2.8      3.7       4.4        5.5
Labor 7X                  26.3   26.3        39.4       39.4
Naintenance /5             o.5      1.5       3.0        4.9
Subtotal                36.7    U12        g75       z T
Net Income before Taxes     (L1)   24.6         40.1       67.0
Igss Taxes /6              _ -                             -
Net Income                    (4.1)  23.4       38.1       63.6
/1 Collection charge Din. 18 per liter (1) average daily collection (365 days per
year) year 1, 500 1; year 2, 1,000 1; year 3, 1,500 1; year 4, 2,000 1.
/2 Up to 40 kWh of 1 Din. per kWl.
75 Up to 15 Dini. per day.
7E Years 1 and 2, 4 hours per day; thereafter 6 hours per day at
18 Din per hour including social benefits.
/5 2% of building and equipment value.
76 Taxes and contributions equal to 5% of net operating income.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
.'odc'L: Social Sector Milk Collection Station (3000 liter capacity)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1          2                      3                      6                     _.                      10          11         12-20
----------_--__--------------------------------------------- Din ------------------------------------------------------------__
Cash  onflow
Revenue                                       32,800      65,750    98,580      131,400    131,400    131,400    131,400    131,400    131,400   131,400         131,400    131,400
Long-term Loan A186,270                                     _-         -          --             -
Enterprise Contribution  /2                    79,830       -          --         --             --         --          --          --         --         --           --       --
Subtotal                                  298,900                7,50                               131, 400    131,400    131,400    131,400   131,400       131,400
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                            36,900      41,200    58,500       64,400     64,400      64,400      64,400     64,400      64,400    64,400       64,400      64,40o
Investments                                  266,100       --         --          -
Taxes                                                      1,200      2,000       3,350       3,350      3,350       3,350      3,350       3,350      3,350       3,350       3,350
Debt Service
Interest                                    9,081      18,161    18,161       18,161     16,520      14,718      12,740     10,570       8,188      5,574       2,705        --
Principal                                   ..                                16,839     18,480 o                22,260     24,430      26,812    29426        27,741        --
Subtotal                                  355,. 1       T0,__ _      6       102,75     102,750    102,750    102,750    102,750    102750   102750            i           67,750
Cash Flow                                        (5If8l)       5,189    19,919      28,650      28,650      28,650     28,650    8_,650       28,650      28,650      33_204     63695 0
Compulsory Allocations /3
Depreciation cA                                            4,_00    15,610      15,610      15,610     15,610      15,610      '5,610     15,610      15,610      15,610     15,61o
Business and Reserve Fuods  /5                                36        229          896        946      ioo         1,059      _1  14__6              ____2_      1,360       1,441
Remaining for Distribution                 --11                          4,180      12,14       12,4       12 0        11,98       11,916     11 844      11,766      16,234     LL2L9
Incremental Cash Flow for                        (2(0,200)   23,314    37,951       62,754      62,704     62,650      62,591      62,526     62,454      62,376      62,290     62,209
Financial Rate of Return
C,  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:      19%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Cost + 10%:    171
Operating Expenses + 10%: 16%
Revenues - 10%:            141%
1  70I% of investment costs at 9.75% per annum.
2  30% of investment costs.                                                                                                                                                                 O M
3  According to Yugoslav law.                                                                                                                                                                    co c
Annual depreciation charge 2%o  for building, 1.5% for water and drainage system, and 7% for equipment.                                                                                     X
5  Based on 3% of net income minus long-term interest and depreciation charges.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 12
Page 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Social Sector Milk Collection Station (3000 liter capacity)
D. Investments
Investment Costs
No. of    Uhit                    Year 1
Investment Items                      Units    Cost        lccal2  Forxgn Exchange  Total
_--Din '000---        --------- Din  000 --------
Construction
Building /1                         1         .3         7C.o        4.O           79.0
Water and drainage system          --                    11.4        o.6           12.0
Electrical system                  --         --          3.8        0.2            4,0
Equipment
Insulated tank (1500 1 capacity)   2        6&c          54.        82.C          136.0
Centrifugal mill pump (500 i/hr)   1         6.4           --         .             6.
Milk scale                          1        0.2           --        o.2            o.2
Milk filter                         1        li5                     0 .33         1.5
Milk lines                          1        2.0          iM3        0.7            2.0
Milk sampling equipment             1        5.0          3.3        1.7            5.0
Installation                          --         7.3         7.3          --           7.3
Subtotal                                            Y:.3         96.1          253.4
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                  7.9         4.8          12.7
Total                                                165.2      100.9          266.1
/1  Size of Building 35 m 2.
'May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Dairy (3 to 6 cow unit)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project       L             2             3            4             5           6            7_20
--------------------------------------------------Din---_____________________________
Revenue
Milk /1                     21,600       40,000        48,ooo       60,000        62,400        67,200       67,200       67,200
Cull  Cows /2            __          4,300         4,300        4,300         5,000         5,000         5,w00       5,000
cull Cows /2                 4,04- ,0                                              7,000        14,000         7,000      10,5000
Heifers  3                   4,900        47,90                                    7            1,00004ooo     7,000      10,500
Malesr23                     4,Loo        4,9oo
Male Calves /4                _-          3,000         3,000         3 000        4,500         3,000         4 500        3 700
Subtotal                 31,400       52,200        55,300       74,300        70,900        o9,200       o3,700           2
Operating Expenses
Feed /5                     18,000       35,700        35,700       40,800        43,300        44,40o        42,300      43,400
Veterinary Services L6       2,000        2,800         2,800         3,200        3,300         3,500         3,300        3,400
Insurance L7                 1,000        2,100         2,100        2,400         2,600         2,800         2,800       2,800
Electricity and Water        1,500        2,000         2,100         2,500        2,500         2,500         2,500        2,500
Maintenance                  1,000         1,000        2,000         2,500        2,500         3,000         3,000        3,000
Miscellaneous                1,000         1,000        2,000         2,500        2 500         3,000         3,000       3,000
Subtotal                 2                          46700        53,900        56,700        59,200        5,90        5100
Net Income                      6,900         76600                     20 400       22,200        30,000        26 800
Ll 4 Din per liter.
/p Up to year 3, 430 kg liveweight@~z 10 Din/kg, thereafter 500 kg liveweight.
U3 up to year 2, 350 kg liveweight@  14 Din/kg, thereafter heifers at breeding value.
Z4  Sold at 3 to 4 months of age, 100 kg liveweight 3 15 Din/kg.
L5  Preproject 3,600 Din per animal unit, from year 1 5100 Din per animal unit.
M6 Medicines and A I services 400 Din/animal unit.                                                                                            x
7  3% of herd value.                                                                                                                          H
I-F
k#.



APPRAISAL OE
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Dairy
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1            2             3             4            5             6         ear               8              9             10            11           12-20
--------------------------------------------------------------------__---__     -- Din-----------  -   -   -   -   -  -    -  -   -    -  -   -  -    -   -  -    -
Cash Inflow
Revenue                      52,200        55,300        74,300        78,900        89,200        83,700        86,400        86,400        86,400        86,400        86,400        86,400
Long term loan /1            63,840                                                    --                   --            --            --                                        --
Farmer Contribution Z2       15,960           --           --            __
Subtotal                 132,000        55,300        7,3700                                                8 3            86.400  8                   86.400 8 8
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses           44,600        46,700        53,900        56,700        59,200        56,900        58,100        58,100        58,100        58,100        58,100        58,100
Investments                  79,800          __--                        --            --                   --                          --           --             --
Debt Service                    --            --    --            --            --            --            --            --                   --            --            --
Interest                   2,474         4,948         4,948         4,479         3,973         3,429         2,842        2,210         1,528            794             3          __
Principal                                              6 052         6,521         7,027         7,571         8,158         8,790         9 472       10 206             43        _    _
Subtotal                      __       51,648        64,900        67,700        70,200        67,90       0       6       9,100  69,100              69,106        58,146         58,100
Cash Flow                         5,126         3,652        9,400        11,200        19,000        15,800        17,300        17,300        17,300        17,300        28,254        28,300
Incremental Cash Flow Z3        (79,100)        1,700       13,500        15,300        23,100        19,900        21,400        21,400        21,400        21,400        21,400        21,400
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return : 20%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment costs   + 10%   19%
Operating expenses + 10%: 13%
Revenue             - 10%: I1%
,1 80, of Investment Costs at 7.75% interest rate.
2  20% of Investment Costs
3  Incremental herd value  55,200 Din in 20th. year.                                                     
C,
MYx
Ma)' 197S 



APPRATIA1 OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model:  Private Sector Dairy Farm
P. Investments
Year
1
Investment Items                     No. of Units    Cost per Unit            Local      Foreign Exchange       Total
- in _Z -1------------Din---________________
Cow Barn Extensions /1                        4 hd            6.500            23 835        2,165              26,000
Irrigation                                   --              6,000              4;920        1,080               6,ooo
New Pasture                                  2 ha            1,000.             1,800          200               2,000
Farm Equipment /2                            --               --                8,ooo        2,000              10,000
Heifers in Calf                                :d           16,000             32,000         --                32oo 0
Subtotal                                                                   70,555        5, ,                 ,o
Physical Contingency 5%                                                         3 527          273               3,800
Total                                                                      74,502        5,718               79,0
E. Herd Projection
Year
Pre-Project           1            2             3             4             5 L           6 7
Herd Composition               ------------------------           ---------------head_-----------------------------
Cows                           3                 5             5             6             6             6            6
Heifers 1-2 years              I                 1             2                           2             3            2
Heifers Under l year          1                 2             2             2             3            2             3
Males 1-2 years               1                 1             --            --
Males under l year           1                 __
Calves Born 3 Female         2                  2             2             3            2             3             2
Male        1                  2            2             2             3             2             3
Total Animal Units /4        5                  6.6           7            8.0           8.3           8.7           8.3
Sales
Cull Cows 5                                     I             1             1            1             1             1
Heifers 1-2 years            I                 __             _                           1            2             1
Males 1-2 years               I                 1                                         __            __           __
Male  calves                  __                2             2             2             3            2             3
Purchases
lleifers in calf             --                 2             --          --             --            --            --
Milk Production               -----------------------------_--------------Liters------------------------------
Average per cow            1,800           2,000         2,4o00        2,500         2,600         2,800         2,800
Total Milk                 5,400          10,000        12,000         1,500        15,600        16,800        16,800
/1  Increase housing capacity from 7 to 11 head
2  Milking Equipment, mower, trailer
3  Calving rate 80%.                                                                                                                v
,4  Animal units (AV) cow 1 1-2 year old Animals 0.7, under 1 year old animals 0.3
5  Culling rate 20%
6  Herd composition same for years 5,7,9,11,13,15,17, 19
7Herd composition same for years 6,8,10,12,l4,16,18,2o
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Sheep Farm A
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project      1           2            3            4            5          6-20
---------------------------------- Din _________-____
Revenue
Rams /2                                                                          400                      400          200
Cult ewes /3                            4,800        4,800        4,800        7,200       7,200        7,200        7,200
Lambs 14                                8,500        8,500       13,300      14,600       15,600       15,600       15,600
Wool /5                                 1,900        1,900        3,100        3,000        3,100       3,100        3,100
Milk /6                                 8,800        8,800       14,000       13,700      14,000       14,000       14,000
Insurance /                             1,400        1,400       2,400        2,400        2,400        2,400        2,400
Subtotal                          25,400      25,400       37,600       41,300       42,300       42,700       42,500
Operating Expenses
Feed /8                                 9,600        9,600       14.300       15,300      15,300       15,300       15,300
Insurance /9                            2,100        2,100        3,500       3,500        3,500        3,500        3,500
Veterinary Services /10                 1,000        1,000        1,400        1,500        1,500       1,500        1,500
Transport /11                             600          600        1,000        1,000        1,000       1,000        1,000
Rent /12                                  400          400          600          600         600          600          600
Fertilizer /13                            -            -            800          800          800          800         800
Replacement Rams /14                      300          -            -          1,500          -         1,500          750
Miscellaneous   il                        700          700          900        1,100        1,100        1,100        1,100
Subtotal                          14,700       14,400      22,500       25,300       23,800       25,300       24,550
Net Income                                   10,700      11,000       15,100       16,000       18,500       17,400       17,950
Li  Increased ewe flock from 50 to 80 at full development.
/2  Liveweight 50 kg at 8 Din per kg.
/3  Liveweight 40 kg at 12 Din per kg.
/4  Average price of 340 Din per lamb based on 60-b slaughter of spring lambs of 15 kg liveweight at 20 Din per kg and 407. of fall lams
of 25 kg liveweight at 16 Din per kg.
/5  Fleece weight of 1.5 kg for adult sheep at 25 Din per kg.
76  507% of ewes milked producing 50 liters at 7 Din per liter.
/7  Market value for ewes and hogget deaths.
/8  150 kg hog per sheep unit at 1.0 Din per kg.
/9  77, of flock value of rams, ewes and hoggets.
/10  15 Din per sheep unit.
/11  0.5 Din per liter of milk.
/12  6 Din per sheep unit.
/13  200 kg per ha at 2 Din per kg (2 ha).
/14  Ram replacement rate 4 years.                                                                                                                      on
k44y2.975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Sheep Farm
B.  Proiected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1           2            3           4            5           6            7            8
---------------------------------------------- Din---------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                              25,400       37,600      41,300       42,300      42,700       42,500       42,500      42,500       42,500
Long-term Loan /1                    26,376          -            -           -            -            -           -            -            -
Farmer Contribution /2                6,594          -            -           -            -            -           -            -            -
Subtotal                        58,370      37,600       41,300      42,300       42,700       42,500      42,500       42,500       42,500
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                   14,400       2Z,500      25,300       23,800       25,300      24,550       24,550       24,550      24,550
Investments                          32,970          -           -            -            -           -            -            -            -
Debt Service
Interest                            1,022        2,044       2,044        1,730        1,391       1,026          633          209         -
Principal                                          -         4,056        4,370       4,709        5,074        5,467        2,700          -
Subtotal                        48,392      24,544       31,400      29,900       31,400       30,650      30,650       27,459       24,550
Cash Flow                                   9,978      13,056        9,900      12,400       11,300       11,850      11,850       15,041       17,950
Incremental Cash Flow /3                  (32,670)      4,400        5,300       7,800        6,700        7,250       7,250        7,250        7,250
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return         19%
SenRsitivity Tests
Investment costs  + 107        177
Operating costs   + 107         87
Revenue            - 107     : 5%
/1  807 of Investment Costs at 7.75% interest rate.
/2  20% of Investment Costs.                                                                                                                             X   C
/3  Incremental herd value 25,500 Din in year 20.
M"y 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Private Sector Sheep Farm
D. Investments
Year
1
Investment Items               No. of Units   Cost per Unit      Local   Foreign Exchange    Total
----- Din--Din--------
Extensions to Wintering Barns      38 SU            300          10,450        950           11,400
Pasture Improvement                 2 ha          1,000           1,850        150            2,000
Breeding Stock
Rams                             1 hd          1,500           1,500       --              1,500
Ewes                            30 hd            550          16,500        --            16,500
Subtotal                                                              1,100            31,40
Physical Contingency (5%)                                         1,515         55            1,570
Total                                                      31,815     1,155            32L970
May 1975
(Q



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm 14odel: Private Sector Sheep Farm
E. Flock Projection
Y e a r
Pre-Project  1         2         3         4         5
-Ci------- ----------- Head--------_________________
FLock Composition
Rams                                                   1        1         2         2         2         2
Ewes                                                  50       50        80        78        80       80
Hoggets                                               13       13        13        22        20       20
Lamb                                                 42        b2        68        69       72        72
Total                                            106       106       163       171      174       174
Sheep Units /                                     64        64        95       102      102       102
Mortality
Ewes                                                   2        2.        4         4         4         4
Hoggets                                                1        1         1         1         1         1
Lambs                                                  4        4         7         6         6         6
Sales
Cull ewes                                             10       10        10        15        15        15
Lambs                                                 25       25        39        43        46        46
Rams                                                                                1                   1
Purchases
Ewes                                                  -        30        -         -         -         -
Rams                                                  -          1       -          1                   1
Production Indices                                  T---------------------Indices-----------------------
Lambing rate   %                                      85        85       85        go        9o        go
Mortality lambs  5                                    10        10       10        10        10         9
Mortality ewes  %                                      5         5        5         5         5         5
Culling rate ewes  %                                  20       20        20        20        20        20
/I   Rams, ewes and hoggets estimated at one sheep unit (SU).
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 15
Page l
APPRAISAL OF
AN AaRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUMOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mixed Vegetables (1 ha) with Small Scale Irrigation
A. Project Income Statement
Year
Pie-
Project        1          2         3
Revenue  /1
Tomatoes /2                                   11,970      13,110     14,250      15,960
Nepper   73                                   10,308      11,664     13,608      16,200
Beans    71;                                  11,700      12,870     13,650      17,550
onions   75                                    2,250       2 475      2,700       3,10
Subtota r                                  36_226                 44,20__     52___
Operating Expenses
Seed                                           1,485       1,485      1,485       1,485
Fertilizer  /6                                 1,250       1,380      1,650       1,990
Pesticides                                        700        900         900        900
Irrigation  /7                                               850        850         850
Insurance   78                                 1,003       1,173      1,428       1,795
Labor, hired79                                 2,420       2,670      3,700       5,200
Machine and Transport Services   /10              930      1,000       1,110      1,280
Interest on Seasonal Credit      7mT             229         284        334         405
Subtotal                                    ,.17       297g       1T          17
Not Income                                        28,211     30,377      32,751     38,955
/1  Fbr yields see Annex 8, Appendix 15, page 3.
77  Planted area 0.3 ha; price per kg Din 1.9.
75  Planted area 0.3 ha; price per kg Din 2.16.
71  Planted area 0.3 ha; price per kg Din 6.5.
75  Planted area 0.1 ha; price per kg Din 2.25.
7Z  Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35 per kg.
77  Variable pumping and maintenance and repair costs.
75 3%o of production value increasing to 3.5%o at full development.
77  Seasonal labor required for picking (50% of total harvest labor in year 1 and
inczeasing to 60% in subsequent years) at Din 10 per hour.
/10 Ploughing, fertilizer distribution and land preparation.
79T Based on 50% of operating expenses for 6 months at an annual interest rate of 12%.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mixed Vegetables (1 ha) with Small Scale Irrigation
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1          2           3            4           5           6             7         B             9          10-15
---  -  ---------------                ------------Din------ __
Cash Inflow
Revenue                               40,119,      44,208      52,860       52,860      52,860      52,860       52,860      52,860       52,660       52,660
Long-term Loan                        I23,856                                                             _
Farmer's Contribution   2               5,964          --          --           --                        _           _                        _            _
Short-term Loan                         4 729       5,562       6 750        6 750       6,750        6,750       6 750        6,750       6,750        6,750
Subtotal                                        49 770                   5~90 3 5    59,         59, 10       59,610      59,610      _59_,61_0 _59__,C10
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                      9,742      11,457      13,905       13,905      13,905      13,905       13,905       13,905      13,905       13,905
Investments                            29,820          --          --           --          -
Short-term Loan Repayment               4,729       5,562        6,750       6,750       6,750        6,750       6,750        6,750       6,750        6,750
Debt Service
Interest                                924        1,849       1,8J49       1,605       1,342       1,058          753          423          69
Principal                                 -.  --1                           3,                                   4.2547 44.577                            --
Subtotal                                        18,868       25,655      25,655      25,655       25,655      25,655                                20,655
Cash Flow                                 29,453      30,902       33,955      33,955      33,955       33,955      33,955       33,995       38,001      38,955
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return               (27,654)      4,540      10,744       10,744      10,744       10,744      10,744       10,744       10,744      10,744
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:      32%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs + lo%:   301
Operating Expenses + 10%: 30k
Revenues - lo%:            27Jo
1 80% of investment costs at an annual interest rate of 7.75%.                                                                                                    0 'd
2  20% of investment costs.                                                                                                                                        x CD
H.y17
Mar" 1975



AWTNEX 8
Appendix 15
Page 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mixed Vegetables (1 ha) with Small Scale Irrigation
D. On-Farm Investments
Investment Costs
Year 1
Local    Foreign Exchange   Total
Investment Items                             ----------------Din--------------
Motor Pump                                    4,620          1,380        6,000
Pipeline /1                                   1,584            816        2,400
Well /1  -                                   18 320          1,680       20,000
Su-otal                                   24,524         3,           ______
Physical Contingencies (5%)                   1,226            194        13420
Total                                     25,750         4,070        ?9,820
/1 Including family labor.
E.  Development of Yields
Year
Pre-Project           1              2             3-15
------------------------100 kg per ha---------------
Tomatoes (0.3 ha)            210             230             250            280
Pepper (0.3 ha)              160             180             210            250
Onions (0.3 ha)              100             110             120            140
Beans (O0l ha)                60              66              70             90
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 16
Page 
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model:    Plastic House (1 ha)
A. Projected Income Statement
Y e a r
1           2          3 - 9        10
Pre-
Project     Total        Total       Total        Total
------_-------------Din------------------------
Revenue A
Tomatoes /2                       76,800     211,,464     282,331     282,331      282,331
Salvage Value of Plastic House      --          --          --           --        24o,o
Subtotal                        7,         211,464+                 282,331      522,331
Operating Expenses
Maintenance /3                      --          --          --          23,700      23,700
Fertilizer /1F                     1,700        2,980       2,980        2,980       2,980
Manure /5                            100          100         100          100         100
Irrigation /6                      1,025       1,450        1,450        1,450       1,450
Plant Protection                     650        1,300       1,300        1,300       1,300
Plastic /7                          --        23,400       23,400       23,400      23,400
Hired Unskilled Labor /8           4,200        7,800      10,000       10,000      10,000
Insurance /9                       2,304       6,344        8,470        8,470       8,470
Interest on Seasonal Credit /10      300       1 300        1,431        2,142       2,142
Subtotal                        10,279      44,674       49,131       73,542      73,542
Net Income                          66,521      166,790     233,200      208,789     448,789
1 Domestic sales only.
For seasonal prices and quantities see Annex 8, Appendix 16, page 4.
40 aluminum tubes and 80 nozzles.
About 1,000 kg of 16.16:16 complex fertilizer at 2.58 Din/kg for first planting and
300 kg ammonium nitrate at 1.38 Din/kg for second planting.
8 3000 kg/ha every third year of Din .1 per kg.
76  Own well; Din 425 pumping costs (diesel) and Din 600 maintenance costs.  For second
planting pumping costs only.
Replacement of half of the plastic material each year at Din 13 per kg.
Picking norm 50 kg/hour + 160 hours for removal and rebuilding of plastic house. Half
of total labor requirements is hired labor at Din 10 per hour.
3 percent of production value.
9  Based on 50 percent of operating expenses for six months at 12 percent annual interest.
Note: Due to free labor capacity in the pre-project stage, family labor has not been
costed. Total additional family labor amounts to 650 hours per annum.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Plastic House (1 ha)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Y e_a r
1          2          3           4          5          6           7          8           9          10
-    --------------------------------------- -   ------   Din-------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                             211,464    282,331    282,331    282,331    282,331    282,331    282,331    282,331    282,331        522,331
Long-term Loan/I                    445,280      --         --          --         --          --         --         --          --          --
Farmer's Contribution/2            111,320                  --          --         --                     --          --         -- __
Short-term Loan                      21,687     23,850     35,700      35,700     35,700      35,700     35,700     35,700      35,700       35,700
Subtotal                          789,751    306,1b1    318,031    318,031    318,031    31b,031    318,031    318,031    318,031        558,031
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                   44,674     49,131      73,542     73,542     73,542      73,542     73,542      73,542     73,542       73,542
Investments                         556,600 oo               __          __         __          __         __          __         __           __
Short-term Loan Repayment            21,687     23,850     35,700      35,700     35,700      35,700     35,700      35,700     35,700       35,700
Debt Service:  Interest              17,255     34,509     27,496      19,940     11,797       3,024       --          --         --           __
Principal              _-        90,491     97,504    105,060    113,203      39,022        --         --          --          --
Subtotal                          640,216    197,981    234,242    234,242    234,242    151,288    109,242    109,242    109,242         109,242
Cash Flow                             149,535    108,200      83,789     832789     83,789    166,743    208,789    208,789    208,789        448,789
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return           (456,331)  166,679    142,268    142,268    142,2068    142,268    142,268    142,268    142,268         362,268
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:   31 %
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs   + 10 ci: 27 t
Operating Expenses + 10 %:  29 %
Revenues           - 10 %:  25 %                                                   m  I 
6 80% of the investment costs at an annual interest rate of 7.75 %.X
/2  20 %of the investment costs.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 16
Page 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model:   Plastic House (1 ha)
D. On-Farm Investments
Investment Costs
Y e a r  1
Number of    Cost Per                Foreign
Investment Items                  Units         Unit        Local    Exchange   Total
Din --    ---------- Din  000 ------
Tubes                           800 tubes        563        300.0     150.0      450.0
Nozzles                        1476 nozzles       15         14.7        7.4      22.1
Manila Hemp                    1000 kg             7          7.0       --         7.0
Labor                           120 hours         10          1.2      --          1.2
Plastic                        3600 kg            13         35.1      11.7      46.8
Manure                           30 tons         100          3.0      --          3.0
Subtotal                                                3611o l69.1         530.1
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                  18.0        8.5      26.5
Total                                                   379.0     177.6     556.6
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix Y6
APPRAISAL OF                        Page
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model:   Plastic House (1 ha)
E. Prices, Yields and Sales of Tomatoes by Season
Y e a r
Pre-Project              1               2 - 10
Month                        Price/1  Quantity  Sales    Quantity  Sales    Quantity  Sales
Din per kg  100 kg    Din       100 kg    Din       100 kg    Din
First Planting
1 - 31 May                  9.60       --       --         55     52,800       70     67,200
1 - 15 June                 5.20       --       --         70     36,400       90     46,800
15 June - 15 July           4.60       50     23,000       90     41,400      120     55,200
15 July - 1 August          2.12      150     31,800      110     23,320      150     31,800
1 - 31 August               1.11      200     22,000      110     12,210      150     16,650
Subtotal                            40oo    76,800      435    166,130      580    217,650
Average Price per kg
(lst Planting)                        1.92                3.82                 3.75
Second Planting
1 Sept.- 15 Oct.            1.00      --        --        110     11,000      130     13,000
15 - 31 October             2.50      --         --        75     18,750       92      23,000
1 - 30 November             4.10                           38      15,580      70      28,68o
Subtotal                                                223      45,330     292      64,68o
Average Price per kg                                       2.03                 2.22
(2nd Planting)
Total (lst and 2nd Planting)        400     76,800      658    211,460    872      282.;Rp
/1 Prices for:
- May/June market price of the individual sector (mission estimate);
- June/October average market price 1972/73 (Source: Instituta za ekonomika poliprivrede);
- November (mission estimate).
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Cherries (0.5 ha)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project          3         4          5         6          7         8          9       10-20       21         22        23
------------------------------------------ Din_ _- _-
Revenue
Maize A                        2,250                  --         --              --        --         --        --         --                   --
Cherries /2                      --              _                  6,300     8,050    10,500    12,250    14o000    15,750    14,000    10,500          8,050
Subtotal                    2,250    __ __                       6,300     2,050    10,500    12,250                           14,000    10,500
Operating Expenses
Seed /3                          180                                  --         --        --         --        --         --         --        --         --
Fertilizer  4                    607             - -        -         4        500       650        650       700        770        700       650        500
Plant Protection                 --            1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000
IrrigatiDn                       --              675        675       --         --              --        --         --        --         --              --
Packing Material                 --              --         --        100        120       150        175       200        225        200       150        120
Skilled Labor /5                 --              300        300       500        500       500        500       500        500        500       500        500
Unskilled Labor L6               --            1,200      1,200       500        650     2,050      2,300     2,600      2,900      2,600     2,050        650
Insurance  C7L    6r                             --         - 6       190        240       315        367       420        472        420       315        2 0
Interest on Seasonal Credit A    2b              --                               90       140        150       163        176        1(3       140         90
Subtotal                   B-BT1            3,175                                         552,771  3,100  4   5,142  5,553  6,043  5       4,505      3,100
Net Income                        1,369          (3,175)   (3,175)    3,529       4,950      5,695     7,108      8,417     9,707      8,417      5,695     4,950
41 Yields 3,000 kg per ha; price per kg Din 1.5.
For prices and yields see Annex 8, Appendix 17, -)age 3.
3 Seed per ha 30 kg at Din 12 per kg.
Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35 per kg.
of total labor required for picking in year 7-20 about 80% will be hired labor ( 50o, and 60% in year 5 and 6, respectively).  The opportunity cost of the
farmer's own labor input is assumed to be zero as there is free labor capacity in the pre-project stage.                                                              ' co
Three percent of prDduction value.                                                                                                                                       H
Based on 50% of operating expenses for 6 months at an annual interest rate of 12%.
ma' 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Cherries (0.5 ha)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1        2         3         4         5         6        7         8         9        10       11-20      21        22      23
------------------------------------------------------ Din.----------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                             --       --        --        --     6,300    8,050   10,500   12,250   14,000   15,750   15,750   14,000   10,500    8,050
Long-term Loan A                10,808    2,667        --        --        --        --        --       --        --        --        --        --        --
Farmer's Contribution /2         2,702       667       --        --        --        --        --       --        --        --        --        --        --        --
Short-term Loan                     --       --        --        --      1 345    1,505    2,333    2,486    2,710    5,867    5,867    2,710    2,333    1,505
Subtotal                     13,510        _        --         -               9,555   12,o33   16,710   21,617                          16,1 3 3             9,555
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                  --       --      1,975    1,975    2,771    3,100    4,805    5,142    5,583    6,043    6,043    5,583    4,8o5    3,100
Investments                     13,510    3,334        --        --        --        --        --       --        --        --        --        --        --        --
Short-term Loan Repayment           --       --        --        --      1,345    1,505    2,333    2,486    2,710    5,867    5,867    2,710    2,333    1,505
Debt Service:  Interest             419      941    1,044    1,044    1,044    1,044           869      681       478       259       __        __        __        __
Principal          --        --        --        __        -_     2,256    2 431    2 619    2 822    3,347           --        --        --        --
Subtotal                     1,                                                                             153   1        6 11,910    8,293    7,130  1705J
Casn Flow                             (419)    (941)  (3,019)  (3,019)   2485    1,650    2,395    3,808    5 117              101    9,707    8,417    5,695    4,950
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return       (14,879)  (4,703)  (3,344)  (3,344)   2,160    3,581    4,326    5,739    7,048    8,338    8,338    7,048    4,326    3,581
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return  :  151
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs   +101:  13%
Operating Expenses +10%,:  14%
Revenues            -10M:  12%
CDE
/1 80% of investment costs at an annual interest rate of 7.75%.
2  20% of investment costs.
xay 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Cherries (0.5 ha)
D. On-Farm Investments
Year
No. of           Unit                                  Total
Investment Items               Units             Cost      1         2      Local      For.    Total
--______ ------- Din--------------------------
Plants                         25 plants        250.0    6,250       --     6,250       --      6,250
Manure /1                  20,000 kg               .1    2,000       --      2,000      --      2,000
Fertilizer /2                 105 k               1.35   1,417       --        945      472    i,417
Irrigation 75               1,350 m)              1.5       --       675       600       75       675
Plant Protection                                                   1,000       700      300    1,000
Hired Machine Services A        2 days          600      1,200       --      1,080      120    1,200
Skilled Labor Hired /5         60 hours          15         --       300       300      --        300
Family Labor                  320 hours          10       2,000    1,200    3,200       --      3 200
Subtotal                                             12,67    3175   107              97   1
Physical Contingencies (5%)                              's 643      159       754       48       802
Total                                                13i5310       3               1,01,7 2-Z05   -16,544
/1  Initial fertilizing only.
75  Complex fertilizer (8-8-8).
7j  Using existing irrigation facilities.
7  Land preparation.
75  Pruning
E. Prices and Development of Yields
Price                                               Yields
per                                                 Year
kg        1-4     5        A       7        13      9                 10-20   21       22       23
Din          -----------------------------------------g '00--------       --------------- 
Cherries    3.5         --     18      23       30      35       40               45      40       30        23
May 1975                                                                                                         x m



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Raspberries (0.5 ha)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project          1              2             3-4           5-7            8-9
_- -   --------- -------- --------- -------- -----Din --------------------------------
Pevenue
Maize            2,250            --             --             --            --             --
Raspberry /1      --            4 130          10,000         18,700        18 600         14 520
Subtotal     2,250            X             10,000         18,700        18,600         14,520
Operating Expenses
Fertilizer         607            607             750            940           932            850
Pesticides         --             112             112            112           112            112
Crates             --              40             100            200           175            150
Corn Seed          180            --             --             --            --             --
Labor /2           --             --            2,650          8,960         8,320          6,720
Insuranc e /3       68            144             360            760           760            575
Subtotal      __55             903           3,972         10,972        10,299          8,407
Net Income          139      ,       227           628            7.72     8   8,301          _6,113
(D (D
L  Price of "Extra" variety Din 8 kg, First Class Din 5 kg.                                             PI
/2  In year 3-9, 80 per cent of the labor required for picking is hired; in year 2 about 50 percent;     x
in year 1 picking by family labor.
a  3.5 percent of production value, increasing to 4-71, at full development.
Note: Due tc free labor capacity in the pre-proiected stage, family labor has not been costed.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Raspberries (0.5 ha)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1        2       3        4         5        6        7        o        9
------------------------ - - - - -Din    --------------------------------________
Cash Inflow
Revenue                         4,130  lo,ooo  18,700   18,700   18,600   18,600   18,600   14,520   14,520
Long-term Loan A               18,610
Farmer's Contribution           4,652      --      --       --       --        --       --       --       --
Subtotal                    27,392    10,000 18,700 18,700         600 18,600   14,520
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                903    3,972   10,972   10,972   10,299   10,299   10,299    8,407    8,407
Investments                    23,262
Debt Service:  Interest            721   1,442   1,442    1,089        708      298     --       --       --
Principal          _               4558    4,911    5 292    3,849                          _
Subtotal                    24i               1,972 i61,299    4,4076  i                               ,T7
Cash Flow                           2,506    4,586    1,728    1,728    2,301    4,154             6.113    6113
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return       (21,430)   4,633   6,333    6,333    6,906    6,906    6,906    4,718    4,718
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return   : 22%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs    +10%:  18%
Operating Expenses  +10%:  17%
Revenues            _10%:  13%
80% of investment costs at an annual interest rate of 7.75%.                                                  0 
20% of investment costs.
KWy 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULFURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
Farm Model: Raspberries 0.5 ha
D. On-Farm Investments
Investment Costs
Year 1
Investment Items           No. of Units         Unit Cost          Local      Foreign Exchange      Total
---Din--                ---------Din-------------------
Plants                     15,000 plants           0.7             10,500             __            10,500
Supports                      420 supports         8.0              3,360             --             3,360
Wire                           250 kg              7,0              1,348            402             1,750
Manure                      20,000 kg                .1             2,000             --             2,000
Fertilizer /1                  700 kg              1.35               633            312               945
Hired Machine Services /2        1 day           600                  600             --               600
Planting, Hired Labor         200 hours           10                2,000             --             2,000
Family Labor                 1,100 hours          10                1,000             --             1,000
Subtotal                                                        21,441           7Tfl            22,155
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                        1,072             35             1,107
Total                                                           22,513            749            23,262
/1 Complex fertilizer (8-8-8).
7   For land preparation.
kVY 1975                                                                                                       COx 
(D



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CRtIIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model:  Raspberries 0.5 ha
E. Prices and Development of Yields
Price per                            Year
Variety          Unit           Unit      1            2            3-4          5-7           6_9
----------------kg---------------------------
"Extra"            kg            8       210           500           900        1,200           840
"First Class"      kg            5       490         1,200        2,300         1,800         1,560
Total Yields                          700         12700        3,20          3,000         2,400
TMaYr1975
n-d
t,I 
,@



ANNEX 8
Appendix 19
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
IUGOSLAVIA
Farm Mkodel: Vineyard (1 ha)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pr-
Project   3            4        5-24
_____________ ___-- Din -------------
Revenue
Corn /1                     3,000         --         __          --
Grapes /2                      --     10,200     20 400      34 000
Subtotal                    0      10,Z
Operating Expenses
Fertilizer  /3                809      1 ,215     1t,485      1,485
Plant Protection              360        460        460         460
Quicklime   /4                 --         90         90          90
Hired Tractor Services 1%       -      1,400      1,400       1,400
Hired Labor, Unakilled 7       --      2,500      2,500       2,500
Maintenance of frellises       --         --          --        600
Insurance  /7                  90        306        612       1,020
Tax /8                         --      1,400     1 ,400      1,400
Interist on seasonal credit/9  35        221        238         256
Subtotal                            7;392    " 5          -721
Net Income         1,706                             12,215 24,78
/1  2000 kg per ha at Din 1.5 per kg.
v  For yields see Annex 8, Appendix 19, page 4.  Price per kg Din 3.4.
73  Conplex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35 per kg.
71  60 kg per ha at Din 1.5 per kg.
75  2.3 days at Din 600 per day.
7Z  Half of the total labor requirements for cultivating, cutting and picking.
77  3 per cent of production value.
78  Contribution to wine development fund.
77 Based on 50% of operating expenses for 6 months at an annual interest
rate of 12%.
Notes Due to free labor capacity in the pre-project stage, family labor
has not been costed. Tbtal additional family labor input required
for the project amounts to 250 hours per annum.
i-*!%



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model~ Vineyard (1 ha)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1           2           3            4           5            6           7           8-24
---------------------------------------  Din_ --_
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                            --          --      10,200       20,400      34,ooo       34,000      34,000      34,000
Long-term Loan   /24,621                                   26,132          --           --          --           --          --           --
Farmer's Contribution  /2                       6,155       6,533          4_ __                    __           __          __           _
Short-term Loan                                    -3 686                            3,974       4 274        4,274       4,274        4 274
Subtotal                                                32,663,7    13,?86       24,374      372          327         38,274
Cash jutflow
Operating Expenses                                 --          --       7,592        8,185       9,211        9,211       9,211        9,211
Investments                                    30,776      32,665          --           --          --           --          --           __
Short-term Loan Repayment                          __          __       3,686        3,974       4,274        4,274       4,274        4,274
Debt Service:  Interest                           954       3,021        3,933       3,933       3,933        2,533       1,024           --
Principal                          __           __          __           __      18,067      19 467       13 219           --
Subtotal                                    31,730                                           35,485                                1-3 6 ,5 13,4
Cash Flow                                           (954)      (3,021)     (1,325)      8 282        2789        2,789       10,2546     2"4,789
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return                       (32,482)    (34,371)         902      10,499       23,083      23,083       23,083      23,0W3
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:    23T
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs +lo%:   21%o
Operating Expenses +10%l: 22%
Revenues - lo%:          20%
/1 80% of investment costs at an annual interest rate of 7.75%.
2  20% of investment costs.
MaY 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Vineyard (1 ha)
D. On-Farm Investments
Investment Costs
Year                       Total
Investment Iitems                       No. of Units  TJnit Cost          1        2         Local    Foreign Exchange      Total
-:D,             ---------------------- DDin-------------------
Planting                                 3,740 plants        4           13,600   1,360      6,369         8,591          14,960
Manure                                  4o,000 kg              ,1         4,000      --      4,000            --           4:,000
Fertilizer  /1                           2,860 kg            1.35         2,460   1,400       2,586        1,274           3,860
Plant Protection                            --                 --           150     250         268          132             400
Trelli ses                                                                       ?5,700     23,130         2,570          25,700
Hired Tractor Services                     5.8 days        60o            2,100   1,400       3,150          350           3,500
Hi'ed Labor  /2                           550 hours         10            5,500      --       5,500           --           5,500
Family Labor                              150 hours         10            1,500  l,ooo        2,500           _.500
Subtotal                                                           29,310  31,110     47,___        12,917          60,420
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                         ____   1,5'        2,375           6_ 3_021
Total                                                              30,776  32                                       63474 13,  1
/1  Including 1800 kg Quicklime.
7- 75 per cent of the labor for planting,                                                                                            |
14ay 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1/
Pagek4
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CeDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Mode1  ViMneard (iha)
E. Developumnt of Yields
Years
1      2       3      4       5-24
_ - _______------ Fg/ha-
Grapes           --       -    3,000   6,000   10,000
May 1975



APNEX 6
Appendix 20
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
A. Projected Income Statement
Y e a r
Pre-
Project       1          2          _12
- -   -           Din  000      
Revenue A
Wheat                                         12.0        13.3      14.7       16.1
Maize  2                                      11.7        13.5       3.8         -
Sugarbeets                                     5.0         6.o       7.0        8.o
Sunflower Seed                                 4.8         5.4       5.7        6.o
Milk                                           8.0        16.0      24.3       26.4
Pigs                                          14.0        14.0      70.0      14C.0
Eggs                                           1.9         1.9       1.9        1.9
Calves /3                                        .8        1.7       1.7        2.5
Cows                                                                            3.6
Horses A                                        --         8.o       8.0        --
Sub-total                                58.2        79.      137.1     2=0
Services on Neighbor Farms (Net)                --        10.3       10.3      1
Sub-total                                58.2        90.1     147.4     214.9
Operating Expenses
Fertilizer /6                                   3.5        3.9       4.5        4.9
Seed                                           2.3         2.3       2.3        2.3
Plant Protection                               0.5         0.9        1.5       1.5
Machine Services /7                            1.9         1.9       1.9        1.9
Labor, hired                                   4.3                   --         --
Tractor Costs
Fuel, Oil, Etc.                             --          3.8       3.8        3.8
Maintenance and Repairs                     --          2.5       2.5        2.5
Insurance                                    --         1.4       1.4        1.4
Registration                                --           .3        .3         .3
Implements                                      --         2.5       2.5        2.5
Horses, 8  Excluding Feed                       1.7        --         -         --
Feed /9                                         -          5.2      27. 8      62.5
Farrows /10                                    4.0         4.0      20.0       40.0
Insurance /1                                    1.7        2.4       4.1        6.1
Interest on Seasonal Credit  1                   .8       1.3        3.0        5.4
Total Operating Expenses                 20.7        32.4      75.6      135.1
Net Income                                       37.5        57.7      71.8       79.8
For prices and development of yields see Annex 8, Appendix 20, Table E.
Production minus feed for pigs.
Calving rate of 0,8 and production life time of cows five years.
Two horses being replaced by two cows.
For details see Annex 8, Appendix 20, Table H.
Complex fertilizer 8 - 8 - 8
Renting of cereal and sugarbeet combine, 850 DinAha  and 1450 Din/ha  respectively.
Veterinary services and shoeing.
Int-years one and two proteins only, in subsequent years including maize. Price
of soya meal Din  4.5 per kg  and of fish meal Din  10 per kg.
/    Increase in annual pig production from 10 to 50 in year two and to 100 in sub-
sequent years.
i Three percent of production value.
_    Based on 70 percent of operating expenses for six months at an annual rate of 12%.
Note:  Due to free labor capacity in the pre-project stage, additional family labor
input has not been costed,
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAMIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Y e a_r s
1          2           34       5__                      6           7                      9       10 - 12
------------------------------------Din   -------------
Cash Inflow
Revenues                                90,100      147,400    214,900   214,900      214,900    214,900    214,900    214,900    214,yOO    214,900
Long-term Loan A                        105,404      63,840       --        --            --         --          --        --          --           --
Farmerts Contribution  2                 26,351     15,960         _        _              _
Short-term Loan                          21.770     50,820      90,800     90,800      90.800    -QJ80        90,800      90.800     90.800      90. 800
Sub-total                          243,625    278,020    305,700    305,700    305,700    3o5,700    305,700    305,700    305,700    305,700
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                       32,400      75,600    135,100    135,100    135,100    135,100    135,100    135,100    135,100    135,100
Investments                             131,755      79,800        _         -                       -- __       __
Short-term Loan Repayment                21,770      50,820     90,800     90,800      90,800     90,800      90,800      90,800     90,800      90,800
Debt Service
Interest                               4,o85     10,643      13,116     11,420       9,593      7,624       5,502       3,216        753         __
Principal                          _               --        21,884     23,580      25 407      27,376     29,98       3178        9715 
Sub-total                          190,010    2686        260.900    260,900    260.900         9       260.900    ?~.         -LI-68    225,900
Cash Flow                                   73,615      61,157     44,800      44,800     44,800      44,800     44, 800
_  5__15_448o                   44_8oo      44_8oo    ____4,o                              9332       7,0
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return               (111,555)   (45,500)    42,300       42,300     42,300      42,300     42,300      42,300      42,300     42,300
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return                 20%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs + 10%             18%
Operating Expenses + 10%           12%
Revenues           - 10%         : 9%
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . _
/1   80% of investment costs of an annual interest rate of 7.75%.
rx
1    20% of investment costs.
MaY 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
D. On-Farm Investments
Investment Costs
Year                           Total
-12o3t per                                       Foreign
Investment Items                               Unit          1            2        Local       Exchange    Total
----------------Din ----------------
Investments on Model Farm
Tractor 35 HP                               62,106      62,106        4- 7,822                14,284      62,106
Trailer, 3 t                                15,000      15,000                   11,550        3$450      15,000
Plough, 2 Furrow                             4s413       4,413                    3,398        1,015       4s413
Roller                                       3,000       3,000         _          2,310          690       3s000
Building - Material & Hired Labor )                                  h- D/2  45,000  42s732    2,268      45,000
- Family Labor           )         1,00  Din  m            15,000       15,000        --         15,000
Cows                                                    16,000      16,000       32,000         --        32,000
Joint Investments with 3 Other Farms
Sowing Machine (Wheat)                      15,000       3,750         --         2,887          863       3,750
Sowing Machine (Maize)                      10,000       2,500         --         1,925          575       2,500
Cultivator                                  10,000       2,500         _          1,925          575       2,500
Inter Space Cultivator                       7,000       1,750         --         1,348          402       1,750
Sprayer (300 ltr.)                          10,000       2,500         --         1,925          575       2,500
Mower                                        7,851       1,962         _          1,510          452       1,962
Maize Harvester (1 row)                     4O,0Q0      10,000         --         7,700        2300       10,000
Sub-total                                    125481                   174,032       27,449     201,481
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                 6,274        3,800       8,702        1,372      10,074 h   0
Total                            ZUU                                  182.73h      28,821      211.555
HM co
to
MaY 1975                                                                                                                0i



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSALVIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
E. Development of Yields and Number of Cattle on
Model Farm (8 ha) and on Serviced Neighboring Farms (15 ha)
Y e a r
1               ~~~~~~2 3-12
Neigh-                Neigh-                Neigh_
Prices                  Pre-  /1    Model      boring      Model     boring      Model/2   boring/3
- Din -     Unit        Project     Farm       Farm       Farm       Farms       Farm      Farms
Wheat           2.3/kg       100 kg/ha         26          29        27          32        29           35        32
Maize           1.5/kg       100 kg/ha         36          40        37          45        41           50        45
Sugarbeets        .4/kg      100 kg/ha        250         300       270         350       320          400       360
Sunflower       300/kg       100 kg/ha         16          18        17          19        18           20        19
Alfalfa           .8/kg      100 kg/ha         75           80       80          85        85           90        90
Sugarbeet Leaves .2/kg       100 kg/ha        125         150       135         175       160          200       180
Cows            6,000/head  head                1           2        --           3        --            3        --
Milk            4o0/kg       kg/cow          2000         2000       --        2025        --         2200        --
Pigs            1400/head   head               10           10       --          50        --          100        -
Hens                -        head              25           25       __          25        __           25        __
/1   Average yields in Private Sectors
a  Average yields on cooperating farms.
Average yields ten percent less than on Model Farm.                                                                   m 
May 1975                                                                                                                   x x
o1



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YTGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
F. Labor Use on Model Farm /1
Animal        Other Work
Wheat         Maize    Sugar beets    Sunflower    Alfalfa    Production           On Farm         Total
Month         a/2   b/2      a       b   a       b       a      b    a       b    a        b      a       b       a      b
March         a      3       --    __ 17         5       __    __    5       2    50      60      20     20      100      90
April         --    __       80    30   80       75      30    10                  50     60      20     20      260    195
May           --    --      175   150   45      45       60    50  55       50    50      60      20     20      405   375
June          --    --      160   130    5       5       50    40   45      35    50      60      20     20      330    290
July         90    40        40    10   10       5       --    --   __      --    50      60      20     20      210    135
August        --    --       --    __   __      __       __    __   45      35    50      60      20     20      I15    115
September     --    --       --    --  160      45       10     5   --            50      60      20     20       240   130
October      -'85    25     395   120   15       5       30     5    5       5    50      60      20     20      600    240
Assumption:  1.5 family labor units.
2 a: pre-project
b: project
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
eMa9 1975                                                                                                                1
IX 
o0



ANNEX 8
Appendix 20
Page 6
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
G. Structure of Land Use /1
Model Farm          Neighboring Farms
^  f                      Of
Total                     Total
ha   Area               ha      Area
Wheat                           2.0   25                3.7     25
Maize                           3.0   37                5.5    37
Sugar-beet                      0.5     6               0.9      6
Sunflower                       1.0    13               2.0    13
Alfalfa                         0.5     6               0.9      6
Permanent Grassland             1.0    13               2.0     13
Total Area                            io        1Q.O   1QQ
L1 Assumed to remain unchanged.
lsy 1975



ANNEx 8
Appendix 20
Page 7
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model: Mechanization
Annual Cash Income of Model Farm From
H.  Off-Farm Tractor Services
Price                          Variable
Per      No. Of      Gross   Tractor        Net
Unit     Unit      Units /1    Income   Costs       Income
_                    __            -
-------Din-
Ploughing                 ha       300        13.0        3,900     930       2,970
Sowing Wheat              ha       100         3.7          370      85         285
Sowing Maize              ha       100         5.5          550     125         425
Fertilizer Spreading       ha       60         13.0         780      200        580
Plant Protection           ha      200        10.0        2,000     650       1,350
Corn Harvesting           ha       450         5.5        2,475     615       1,860
Transportation            to/km  12.5        400.0        5 000   1 250       3,750
Total Income before Taxes                                                    11 220
Less Taxes /2                                       ---      ---          9
Net Income after Taxes                                             ---       1Q0322
/1 Structure of land use unchanged.
2  Municipal taxes, varying by communes  assumed average of 8% of net incorae.
May 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 21
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Private Sector Land Development (5 ha Non-Irrigated)
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
Pre-Project E    1          2         3I       4_1
Revenue
Wheat /2                   10,120    7,360    8,832   11,776   14,720
Maize /3                    2,475    1,763    2,115    2,820    3, 55
Sunflo: r /                 2,100    2,700    3,240    4,320    5,400
Tobacco                      --      L4,000    4,800    6,400    8,ooo
Maize Silage  6               --      1,500    1,800    2,400    3,000
Pasture  7                   --         600       720      960    1,200
Meadow                      1,000      --        --       --        -_
Uncultivated                   200     --        --        --       --
Subtotal                159X   17,923   21,507   28,76   35,845
Operating Expenses
Seed A                        831    1,620    1,822    1,822    1,822
Fertilizer a                   510    1,180    1,494    1,494    1,494
Protective Agents             176       500       531      531       531
Services /10                1,596    3,o60    3,385    3,385    3,385
Insurance  l                  312       538       645      860    1,361
Labor /12                     832    2,692    3,097    3,097    3,097
General Costs /13             225       500       600       600      600
Interest Short-term Loan'L   120        360       360      360       360
Subtotal                 4,602   10,450   11,934   12,149   12,650
Net Income                    11,293    7,473    9,573   16,527   23,195
/   Pre-project 2 ha wheat at 2,200 kg/ha, 0.5 ha maize  at 3,300 kg/ha,
0.5 ha sunflower at 1,400 kg/ha.
2 2 ha wheat at 3,200 kg/ha at 2.3 Din/kg.
3 0.5 ha maize at 4,700 kg/ha at 1.5 Din/kg.
1.0 ha sunflower at 1,800 kg/ha at 3.0 Din/kg.
5 0.5 ha tobacco at 800 kg/ha at 20 Din/kg.
0.5 ha maize silage at 30,000 kg/ha at 0.2 Din/kg.
7 0.5 ha pasture.
Based on Din 5.4/kg for wheat, Din 6.0/kg for maize, Din 80 for sunflower
and Din 600 for tobacco.
/. Complex fertilizer (8-8-8) at Din 1.35/kg and superphosphate (20%) at
Din/kg.
/1   Ploughing, cultivation, harvesting and transport.
7l1 3% of crop value increasing to 3. % at full development (Preproject 2%).
112  Seasonal labor, 2 man months.
/13 Miscellaneous consumable items.
7I1 Seasonal credit at 12% annual interest rate.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Private Sector Land Development (5 ha Non-Irrigated)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Year
1               2          3          4         5          6         7         _           9        10        11-15
----------------------------------------------------Din--------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                               17,923          21,507    28,676    35,845    35,845    35,845    35,845    35,845    35,845    35,845    35,845
Long-term Loan A                      27,726                  --         --        --         --              --        --         --         --         --
Farmer Contribution /2                 6,924             --        --         --         --             --         --         --         --              --
Short-term Loan                        6,ooo           6,ooo      6 000      6,000     6 ooo      6,ooo      6,ooo     6,ooo      6,ooo      6,ooo     6,ooo
Subtotal                      58,5'73 27,507    3,7                      El,oB5          1    T,5    13,15    Tr,  5    41,875    4IM5  41,8B5
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                    10,450          11,934    12,149    12,650    12,650    12,650    12,650    12,650    12,650    12,650    12,650
Investments                           34,650             --        --         --         --        --         --        --         --         --         --
Short-term Loan Repayment              6,000            6,o00     6,ooo      6,000     6,0oo      6,ooo      6,000     6,ooo      6,ooo      6,ooo     6,ooo
Debt Service:  Interest                1,075            2,149     2,149      1,912      1,658     1,383      1,087        769       425         55       --
Principal               --               --       3,051      3,288      3,542     3,817      4,113     4,431      4,775        709       --
Subtotal                           52,175           20,083    23,349    23,850    23,850    23,4 50    23,650
Cash Flow                                 6,398            7,424    11,327    17,995    17,995    17,995    17,995    17,995    17,995    22,431    23,195
Incremental Cash Flow for
Financial Rate of Return             (38,470)          (1,720)    5,234    11,902    11,902    11,902    11,902    11,902    11,902    11,902    11,902
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:            20%
Sensivitity Tests
Investment Costs   +10%:          19%
Operating Expenses +10%:          14%
Revenue             -10%:         12%
/1  801 of investment costs at 7.75% interest rate.
2  20% of investment costs.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICUJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Model: Private Sector Land Development (5 ha Non-Irrigated)
D. Investments
Year 1
Investment Items   No. of Units         Cost per Unit         Local  Foreign Exchange   Total
Din-----            --------------Din-----------_-_
Land Levelling
Heavy               1,600 m3                10            14,400       1,600         16,000
Medium                900 m3                10             8,100         900          9,000
Surveying                  5 ha               500             2,500         --           2,500
Functional Drainage      100 m                 20             1,800         200          2,000
Access Roads             100 m                 20             1,800         200          2,000
Engineering Services      --                                  1,575         --           1,575
Subtotal                                               30,175      2,900          33,075
Physical Contingency 5%                                       1,509        145           1,65
Total                                                  31,684      3,045          34,729
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ot 
MaY 1975                                                                                            ,
coP



APPRAISAL OF
AT AGRIC1JLE'TRAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUCOSLAVTA
Project Cas?; Flow Statement
(Millions of Din)
1976    1977    19r(   19(9          1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985)    1986    1987             1988      1989    1990
Sources
Parti,ipating Barks /1                               461.8   491.6       --       --       --       --        --       --       --        -    -            --        --       --       --
IBRD Loan /2                                         125.8   379.1   276.3    68.8         --       --        --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --
Loan Collection
Social Sector                                      --        2.4    30.1    74.9   110.1   125.4   120.1   111.3    90.2              75.2     65,7    38.1        6.7    --         --
Private Sector                                     --        2.1     36.7    78.5    94.8   113.3   113.3   101.8            82,3    68.8    36.8          .2    --
Seasonal Credit                                   78.5   182.3   227.2   227.4   228.8   228.9   229.5   229.6   229.8   232.3   231.3   231.3    231,3    231.3   231.3
Interest from Loans
Social Sector  (9.75%') 41                         15.1    55.1      80.1    79.7    72.5    61.7         49.4    37.7    26.9    18.1    10.8            4.4        .7    --        --
Private Sector (7.756) 4/                          10.4    37.9    54.8    53.5    47.4    40.o    31.2            22.5    14.6        8.2       2.9    --        --        --       --
Seasonal Credit  (126)                              4.7    10.9    13.6    13.7         13.7    13.7    13.8    13.8         13.8     13.9    13.9       13.9     13.9    13.9       13.9
Total Sources                                        696.3  1161.4   718.8   596.5    567.3   583.0   557.3   516.7   457.6   416.5   361.4   287.9   252.6   245.2   245.2
Use of Funds
Loans to Subborrowers
Social Sector                                    310.6   478.3    61.3    --            --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --
Private Sector                                   268.8   412.9    46.7    --             _       __       _         __       _        _                  _        _         __       __
Seasonal Credit                                    78.5   182.3   227.2    227.4   228.8   228.9   229.5   229.6   229.8   232.3    231.3   231.3   231.3   231.3   231.3
Direct Financial Expenses
Commitment Fees                                    9.2       3.7      1.2      0.1    --         --       --                 --       --       --        --       --       --        --
Interest IBRD (8.56)                               2.1     25.7      56.3     71.0    69.1       64.7     59.8    54.6    48.9        42.7     35.9    28.5       20.6     11.9       2.5
Interest PB  (5.53%)  5/                          12.6    39.3       53.9    43.5      37.7      35.1    32.3      29.3    26.2    22.9    19.4          15.7    11.8       7.7       3.4
Interest Seasonal (97.)                            3.5       8.2    10,2    10.2    10,3    10.3          10.3    10.3    10.3        10.5    10.4       10.4     10.4    10.4    10.4
Repayment
pBRD 't-                                                    --       --       24.1     51.3      55.8    60.6    66.0        71.6     77.8    84.6       92.0  9' t9.9    108.5      57.8
Participating Banks                                         --       --       45.7    48.3    50.9        53.7    56.7       59.9    63.1      66.6      70.3    74.2      78.3      60.9
Reimbursement PB /v                               --        --      224.8    --         --       --       --                             
Administrative Expenses                               11 0     11.0      7.0       2.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5
Total Uses                                           696.3  1161.4   68.6   424.0   446.5   446.7   447.2   447.5   447.7   450.3   449.2   448.7   448.7   448.6   366.8
Annmal Inflow                                            --        --        ?,2   172.5    120.8   136.3   110.1         69.2       9.9    (33.8)  (87.8) (160.8) (196.1) (203.4) (121.6)
income on Surnlus (127)                                 _         __           _      3.6    24.8    42.2        63.6    84.5   102.9   116.5   126.4   131.0   127.5    119.2   109.1
Net Cash FlDw                        -                        -    -        30.2    176.1   145.6    178.5   173.7   152.7   112.8           82.7     38,6    (29.8)  (68.6)  (84.2)  (12.5)
Cumulative Cash Flow                                               _        30, 2    06. 3   351.9    5304   7041   857.8   970.6  1053.3  1091.9  1062.1    993.5   909.3   896.8
1/  Includes advance contribuLioil Lu coser iruLial investments.
2/ See disbursements schedule.
3/ During fraction of year outstanding.
41  Average interest rate on subloans-
5/  Average cost of funds
6/  Reimbursement of participating banks' advance contribution to cover initial investments
May 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Rate of Return of the Project
1.        The economic rate of return was calculated by aggregating the rep-
resentative models as described in Annex 8 and adding training costs and those
for administering the Project. Benefits resulting from improved resource al-
location in the agricultural sector have not been included in the base case,
but their impact on the economic rate of return were tested in the sensitivity
analysis.
2.        The economic rate of return calculations are based on the following
assumptions:
(a)  Output Prices.  For wheat, maize, and beef the Bank's commodity
world price projections (in constant 1974 prices) were used as
basic data. The price of milk has been reduced by the subsidy
of Din 25 per kg; it has been projected to develop according
to the beef price. Prices of sugar-beets and sunflower se,eds
were reduced by the prevailing subsidies of Din .03 per kg
and Din. 20 per kg, respectively. The remaining products
have been priced at prevailing farmgate prices.
(b) Input Prices. Investment items have been priced at constant
end 1974 prices less import duties levied on imported compo-
nents. Prices of feed grains have been projected on the basis
of the development of the Bank's commodity world price esti-
mates. Prices of replacement cattle have been projected to
change according to the beef price. Other inputs have been
valued at end 1974 farmgate prices, adjusted by taxes where
applicable.
(c) Labor. Hired labor has been valued at the prevailing wage
rates. For investments family labor has been accounted for
at the wage rate for unskilled labor.  Family labor has not
been costed as operating expenses because there are unused
liabor capacities on private farms at the pre-project stage.
(d) Cold Storage and Grain Drying Benefits. Calculation of bene-
f:,ts from cold storage investments has been based on the price
d:fference of products sold at harvest and off season time and
reduction of losses. Grain drying has been assumed to result
in a reduction of loss and waste of maize.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(e) Administrative and Training Costs. Costs have been based on
salaries of additional staff to be hired by the Bank of
Vojvodina and the Participating Banks.
(f) Exchange Rate. The exchange rate was devalued in October 1974
to Din 17 per US$1. It has been used for all calculations.
3.        Based on these assumptions, the project benefits and costs have
been calculated as shown in the attached table. The Project's economic
rate of return would be about 27%   The sensitivity analysis shows the
following results:
Investment Costs          +10%:   24%
Operating Costs           +10%:   21%
Benefits                  -10%:   18%
4.        Resource Allocation Benefits.  As the first agricultural credit
project covering all of Yugoslavia and involving eight banks the impact on
improved resource allocation will be significant particularly in the less
developed regions where misallocation of resources is compounded. The Proj-
ect provides for training of the banks' staff, that will handle, apart from
investments under the Project, most of the investment financing in the agri-
cultural sector. In the sensitivity analysis it has been - very conserva-
tively - assumed that 0.5% of agricultural investments, excluding those under
the Project, will be saved as a result of improved appraisal techniques.
This would raise the economic rate of return to 31%, thus underlining the
role that the Project would play in helping to improve resource allocation
in Yugoslavia.
5.        The economic rate of return indicates that the Project would re-
sult in substantial gains to the economy.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Rate of Return
year
__ ____   3_____   _           4          5         6          7,_ ___  9_ --- --i  '                                100     - --L  j_- ~  ~~~ ~~~~~   1 4  1 5  14       1 7        18          9   __ _
Project Benefits
FPam Output
Milk                                104,750   242,170   303,750   326,250   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750   348,750
Beby Beef                            64,050   109,220   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160   103,160
Beef, HelIu., Calves                 33,220    46,140    60,760    79,780    80,540    80,540    80,540    60,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540    80,540
Park                                  --        23,130    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,340    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040    52,040
Sheep Produ-ce                        --        20,490    27,250    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450    29,450
Cer-ule                             (18,640)       800    29,660    58,600    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69.670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,670    69,672    60,670    69,670
Tobacco                                 980      1,540     2,150      2,750      2,750      2,750     2,750      7,731      2,750     2,750 2,750           2,750     2,710      2,250      2,750      2,750     2,758      2,250      2,750 27750
Sg6rbetet                               80    15,190    21,900    29,400    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750    31,750
Alfalfe cad ShLge                      600    35,800    52,270    70,490    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    78,750    70,750    78,750
Temetse.                             38,560    54,380    68,550    70,040    71,170    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370    71,370
Peas eed Beaus                       39,520    52,700    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    45,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770    65,770
Freeh Vegetables                      9,180    14,040    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140    25,140
Fruite                                2,390    5,780    19,350    28,250    45.000 _ 46,000    48,000    48,000    400               48,000    48_000    48,000  48_000    48,000    48,00            48000    4800    48,000    48,000    48_000
utbttoal                         374,690   671,380   831,750   941_190 1,04J40  1_4        n  l.nn740 1 007_140 1,5714 0                  ,n 1   l,nn7,1@  17,1hn I   _nn7lhn 1007,140   007,14n 1.047.1hO1                     1,007,1hO  1.007,1hO
Cold stIeage                             --   3      1,340   116 ,200                1,2 0   1,00 116.200 116_200  2  00   116,200   116.200                                                 136,200 116,200   116.200                        116, 200 116,200
Totel   Project Beneffit                  274_690   702.720   9                    147954 057,320   , 1,  3_0 1,23 1,1 23,340 1,123_340 13 0 1,123.340 1,123,340 1340  1 123,340 1 1,123,340        1,123,340 1.123,340 1,123.340
Prajert Caste
Inve-t.e.ts end Oper-ting Cf.ts
Inveatre ta                         586,420   728,930    85,100       -          --         --        --        19,200       6,000   39,350    25,160       --         --         --        --        19,200      --         --         --        --
Replaceaent Ctttle                   11,700    67,270    18,790    21,170    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550    23,550
Feed Greit                          108,090   170,290   199,760   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300   271,300
Fertili-er                            6,450    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    19,140    190140    19,140    19,140
Fuel                                 12,080    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140    20,140
Inter                                14,750    49,670    62,420    67,420    62,940    62,940    62,940    62,940    62,940    627940    62,940    62,940    62,940    C2,940    62,940    62,940    42,940    62,940    62,940    62,940
Other                                78,320   246,580   308,03    317240   318,650   318-659   318.650   318,650   318. 650   3180,650   318,650   318,650   318,650   318_50   318,6;0   318.650   318,650   318.650   31.960   318,650
Subtotl                         817_810 1,302,020   713,380   711,410   715,720   715,9O2   715,720   734,920   721,720   755,070   740,720   715,720   715.720   715,920   715,720   734,90   715,720   715,770   715,720   715.720
Adnin.itrative end T-ninRe  Ctests          11,00         00      7,000      2,000      1,000     1,000      1,080      1,800      1,880     1,001      5,000        500        500       500        500        500        500                  500        500
Total Prj-ect Caste                        821810 1,313,020   720,380   713,410   716,720   716,720   716,720   735,920   722,720   756,070   741,880   716 220   716220716,220   716,220   73540716,220   716_220   716,220   716_220
Nct Benetitt                              (554,120) (6102300)  227,570   343_910   403,620   404,620    06,620   387,40   400,620   367,270   381,460   417,154   407,120   407,120   407.120   387,920   407.120   407,120   407,120   407,120
Econnoic Rate of Return:                       277
Semsitivity Test
Investment Caste                 +10%:      242,
P-ujece Operating Casts          +10%:      21%
Project Beenfite                 -507%:     187
Res.urce Allocation Be.efit  Of 3.370,
of Agricultural Investaets:                 317,






IBRD 3774R
AUS
3                                                     Z.    H               u
C3    A    R                         y
bMoribor
X,                                                                                                                    'A ItitudIes,  meters
A
L                                                       in
Vcjrcjzd'                                                                                                                  400-         0
V                                           150
LJUBL                                                                                                                                                                           1500-
;7 '--,"ZZAGREB
arovac
K I
sisak'
j                                                                                                                      v 0 1 V 0 D                A
c       R                 A       T        I       A                                 'Ovi Si,
Rovin'                                                                                                                                                                                                 '4V
RA                       R
Zvornik
cl
B '.0  S N VA          H E R,s         O'V IN A                                                                                     Bor
Zenica
Zadar
J
CD
Sibenik
c
Nis
F  .-I                   Ploc 0    - f
M  0 N T E    E G  R,
Z'                                                                                sovo
Dubrpvnik.
K        S  0           0
TITOG R!A
YUGOSLAVIA
RELIEF
KO RJE
Intemotionol boundaries
Republics boundaries
Autonomous Provinces
A          E    D          N    I   A
N
0    20   40    60   80  100
K1.1-et.1.
C3, R E E 0






-'; P1OPO'ED SE LIPS
-                                                                                                                                                                             JF  O         INAVESASS CANAo L US   iCON OISSK
EPA  S                                                                                                                                                        C                                DDSAC
\LuPnGLAyu ~   ~      ~     ~     INAN  PORT                                                                                                                                                                   C                               - \ i_ /1 O   ^ ( \ ~ _ PLNA \s   t'&t   A     I           u!    fFrjl-   'I0-_.;A51  S:l
g       [ I t K   m                  _  A   T    E           h A  ;           #   -  _                                            -3w                                           8       -\                     .     r         r  Eh                       =   .............................................R.........  'SJ:O S, C- 0  ; 5;
-   -    I NORPSRT ONCARDAROARIDS                                          T--I.....
AGRICULTURAL PR~~~~~OCDUCADERDS4SD5  ANRSDODPOC
TRANSPORTAT                                      NAS   A ARO GGN\IRSOO                                                       DSECs                                            pA Do S 
CC5                               _n          ,   D-                         ,                                                           IN -5-                                                                                                                              C8-
FuE~ ~~~~~~~A                                               \                     rNEEV_. <                                                                                                                                                                     xue                          a4 
~~ W X   f  J             r                 M I IEVINAog                                  A                              >                        ZROEUPLJE                   r                ROT        X      i;~~~~~~~~~~~~31IT
MO,r)   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



