FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL -BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-158.1a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
VOJVODJANSKA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 20, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRj C CY EQUIVA LENTS  *
Currency Unit                         Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
Ul$1                                   Din. 17.0
Din. 1                                US$ 0.O588
Din. 1,000,000                         US$58,824.53
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13
1973.   The currency equivalents given above are
those effective in early November 1974 and take into
account the devaluation of October 29, 1974.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMRENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF A
PROPOSED LOAN TO VOJVODJANSKA
BANKA
WITH THIE GUARANTEE OF
TIE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Vojvodjanska Banka(VB), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to help finance a project
to provide credit for agricultural development throughout Yugoslavia. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at 8 1/2 percent per annum. US$36.4 million of the proceeds of the
loan would be onlent by VB to seven other participating banks at 9 1/2 per-
cent per annum over 15 years, including four years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (R74-1) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic updating
mission visited the country in October 1974 and its findings are reflected
in this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth and significant
structural change during the past two decades. GDP at constant prices in-
creased by about 5.5 percent per year and per capita GDP by over 4.5 percent
per year. Average per capita GNP is estimated at around US$900 (1973). The
number of people engaged in agriculture has decreased both absolutely and as
a percentage of the labor force, while the number engaged in industry and
services has correspondingly increased. However nearly half of the labor
force is still engaged in agriculture, most of it on small private farms.
Industry accounts for 23 percent and services for 22 percent of the labor
force.
4.        Two important features of the economy have been strengthened by the
recent constitutional changes. Self-management, whereby the means of produc-
tion used by different workers' collectives are given to them to manage, has



- 2 -
emerged as the fundamierntal right and obligation of every basic uniit of orga-
nized labor in whatever sector. Second, the responsibility for most important
economic and social policy decisions has been delegated to the Republics and
Provinces. Against this background, Yugoslavia has placed increasing reliance
on the market mechanism and tthe opening-up of the economy to international
trade.
5.         liThe leading role in economic and social development has been played
by the social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and institu-
tions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, and which accounts
for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. All
the enterprises and institutions are under workers' self-management and re-
sources are under social ownership. There is a private sector predominantly
,-omprised of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit on a holdina of arable
land) and smiall enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of non--family
workers), mainly in handicrafts, colnstruction, trade, transport .n,' tourism.
In the past the private sector has beer. relatively ne'glected by -vernr:ienL
policy.  llow,ever, the government has lately been devotin- mrory aLtentiton to pri-
vate farmers with a view to acCeleratir:g the growth of agricultural production.
6.        Despite a policy of fostering accelerated growth in the less-
developed regions, major differences persist in the levels of development
among Republics. The more-developed regions are located in the north and
include 65 percent of the population. But even this area includes sizeable
pockets of poverty, particularly in private agriculture. The less-developed
regions are in the south and are generally more mountainous and less densely
populated. This makes agricult,ure and transportation more difficult. The
southern regions are rich in minerals, coal and hydropower generating poten-
tial. The development of these resources has provided the major stimulus for
growtn.
7.        Although the economy of the less-developed regions has been growing
at almost the same rate as the more advanced areas, per capita income has
lagged behind because of faster population growth (1.6 percent per year as
compared with 0.7 percent in tne more-developed regions).     Consequently,
regional inequalities have widened. Average per capita GDP in the less-
developed regions now amounts to about 50 percent of that of the rest of the
country. Yugoslavia's development policy aims at reducing regional inequal-
ities by transferring investment funds from the more advanced to the less-
developed regions. In 1972 these transfers amounted to almost US$300 mil-
lion, about one-third of the less-developed regions' total investment ex-
penditure.
8.        ln addition to significant regional income differences there are
substantial sectoral income differences. For example, per capita GDP in pri-
vate agriculture in Kosovo (by far the poorest region), is just over US$100
or about one-ninth of the national average. Many private farmers there sup-
plement their incomes by working in the social sector but are, nevertheless,



- 3 -
unable to maintain an adequate standard of living. Although incomes in pri-
vate agriculture are somewhat higher in other parts of the country, they re-
main far below those obtaining in non-agricultural activities.
9.        Thus far, the employment situation in Yugoslavia has remained man-
ageable not least because of the sizeable temporary migration abroad which,
since 1972 has stabilized at a level of about 1.1 million. Open unemployment
was estimated to be around 3.5 percent of the resident active population in
mid-1974, and in the private agricultural sector there was severe underem-
ployment. There is considerable public concern about the size and composi-
tion of the emigrant labor force. The Government expects that the economy
has now reached a level and momentum of development which should create an
annual increase of domestic employment exceeding the natural increase in
the labor force and policies are being introduced to encourage the return
of skilled and educated workers and those who have been abroad for some
time.  liowever, due to an econoimiic slowdown in major recipient countries,
job opportunities abroad may decline and migrant workers may return faster
than intended with potentially negative effects on domestic unemployment
and on the balance of payments.
Recent Developments
10.       Rapid economic growth since 1968 was accompanied by inflation and
balance of payments problems. Many enterprises experienced financial diffi-
culties primarily as a result of over-zealous investment programs and a lack
of financial discipline. To coVnter inflation and improve the external pay-
ments position, the Government, in 1972 and 1973, adopted measures aimed at
restricting monetary expansion, limiting public expenditure, temporarily
strengthening price controls, reducing the growth of personal income, im-
proving the financial structure of enterprises and imposing limitations on
external borrowing. In addition, to neutralize the inflationary pressure on
the balance of payments, the dinar was devalued by 16.6 percent in January
1971, and again by 18.8 percent in December 1971. The dinar has been floating
since July 1973 and on October 29, 1974 the Yugoslav Central Bank established
a new intervention rate of US*1.00 equal to Dinars 17.23, an effective deval-
uation of 7 percent.
11.       As a result of these mieasures economic growth slowed from 8.8 per-
cent in 1971 to 4.4 percent in 1972 and 5.1 percent in 1973. Exports in-
creased during the same period at significantly higher rates than imports.
Aided by a sharp rise in workers' remittances (up 36 percent in 1972) the
current account showed a surplus of US$419 million in 1972, the first sur-
plus since 1965. A current account surplus was again achieved in 1973 ($464
million). Foreign exchange reserves increased from the equivalent of about
one month's merchandise imports in 1971, to nearly 4 months by the end of
1973. lThere was no slowdown in the rate of inflation, however, and most
prices continued to rise at the rate of 15-20 percent per year through 1973.



- 4 -
12.       In 1974 economic growth picked up again (reaching an estimated an-
nual rate of 7 percent). This higher growth rate was accompanied by a recur-
rence of the difficulties associated with rapid growth, further amplified by
the changes in the international trade situation. The pace of inflation
accelerated and the annual rate of increase in the leading indicator--the
overall producer price index--rose to approximately 30 percent. Liquidity
problems in enterprises associated with the rapid increase of the invest-
ment rate began to reappear. The balance of payments deteriorated due to
the coincidence of worsening terms of trade, slow growth of commodity ex-
ports to countries in the convertible currency area, and stagnation of real
net exports of invisibles. As a result, a current account deficit of about
$1 billion is estimated for 1974.
13.       The Social Development Plan for 1971-75 projected an average GDP
growth of 7.5 percent per year in real terms but it is clear that this will
not be realized. Even if economic growth in thie last two years of the period
reached that level, average growth during the five years would amount to
around 6.8 percent, due to the slowdown associated with the 1972/73 stabil-
ization measures. Given the slow population increase this would still be
rather high, and would compare well with growth during the preceding five-
year plan period (4.7 percent per year).
The Energy Sector
14.       On a caloric basis about two-thirds of Yugoslavia's energy needs in
1973 were met from domestic sources. Domestically-mined coal remains an im-
portant source of fuel. Practically all thernal power plants are coal-fired.
About one-third of the oil consumed is of domestic origin. Yugoslavia gen-
erates more than half of its electricity from hydro plants despite the fact
that only about 30 percent of its hydropower potential has been developed.
The shortages of electricity that are emerging are not due to the lack of
hydro generation potential, coal or oil, but rather to insufficient plant
capacity and delayed construction. National energy policy emphasizes maximum
development of domestic resources to curb the need for imported energy.
Federal agencies are preparing studies to coordinate this development for
the most efficient use of resources.
15.       In spite of Yugoslavia's relatively low dependence on imiported oil,
increases in the price of oil are bound to affect tile government's efforts
to improve the external payments position. In 1973 oil imports amounted to
US$259 million, or 6 percent of conmodity imports. For 1974 oil import pay-
ments were of the order of US$900 million, at an average c.i.f. price of
US$100 per metric ton - m.t. (US$13 per barrel), equivalent to about 13 per-
cent of imports of goods and services.    The imnpact on the balance of payments
has been to contribute to a substantial current account deficit in 1974, which
will continue in later years, instead of the surpluses Yugoslavia has enjoyed
recently.



- 5 -
16.       The indirect consequences of the world energy crisis are unclear.
On the positive side the availability of coal and hydropower resources should
iniprove the country's international competitive position, although their de-
velopment would require heavy investment with long gestation periods. On thle
other hand job opportunities for Yugoslavs working abroad may diminisih as eco-
nomic growth in Western Europe slows down. Returning migrant workers would
exacerbate unemployment and housing problems and workers' remittances, whlich
have played a dynamic role in the economy, may suffer. moreover, stagnation
in economic activity abroad could affect Yugoslavia's exports. Although the
rise in the cost of automobile and air transportation might unfavorably in-
fluence tourism, preliminary 1974 data showing foreign tourist visits slightly
below 1973 and foreign exchange earnings equal to 1973 indicate that there
has not been a serious decline. These conflicting trends are being watched
carefully by the Yugoslav authorities and the Bank.
Capital Requirements
17.       Yugoslavia is dependent to a large degree on imported equipment for
its economic development and the country has borrowed substantial amounts
abroad. Gross capital inflows have more than tripled during the last five
years, reaching US$1,186 million in 1973, mostly in medium-term commercial
credit. However, due to rapidly rising amortization payments, an increase
of US$746 million in gross inflows between 1967 and 1972 resulted in an in-
crease in the net inflow of only US$224 million. The growing discrepancy
between gross and net inflows reflects a shift, following the 1965 Economic
Reforms, from long-term official loans to medium-term commercial credits as
a result of the limited availability of official capital and the liberaliza-
tion of foreign trade and borrowing. The United States, the Federal Republic
of Germany, Switzerland, Italy and the United Kingdom have provided most of
the commercial credits. IBRD, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the USSR
have been the principal sources of long-term official capital.
18.       Until recently it was thought that much of the foreign exchange
needed to finance imports would come from the growth of exports cf goods and
invisibles. However, the energy crisis and other factors make it doubtful
whether this source will continue to expand at its previous high rate and the
country will, therefore, need to maintain a high level of foreign borrowing.
Its gross medium- and long-term capital requirements are tentatively estimated
at between US$2.0 and 2.5 billion per year during 1974-79. Around US$500-600
million of this may be provided in the form of official development assistance
from bilateral and multilateral sources. The remainder will come mainly from
foreign banks and suppliers. Raising such large sums will be a formidable
challenge, but Yugoslavia's success in the past in obtaining the funds it
requires from the capital markets, and its continued good credit standing,
give grounds for confidence that it will be able to obtain the capital in-
flow required to finance its development efforts.



-6-
Creditworthiness
19.       In spite of the present unsettled international conditions, the
prospects for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade
are good. The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its rela-
tively low dependence on imported energy sources, its pragmatic approach to
economic problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, com-
bine to give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects.
20.       External public and publicly-guaranteed debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1973 was US$1,912 million. In addition there was US$2,407 mil-
lion non-public external debt outstanding. Total (public and non-public) debt
service payments in 1973 were equivalent to 13.5 percent of foreign exchange
earnings including workers' remittances. With external borrowing projected
at around US$2 billion per year during 1974-76 with a rising trend, the debt
service ratio (public and non-public) is expected to gradually increase over
the next few years. Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and
the measures taken in thie past to control balance of payments problems, as
well as the prospective growth of production and foreign exchange earnings,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
21.       Many of the high priority projects in Yugoslavia have a low foreign
exchange component due to the relatively advanced state of Xugoslav industry
and the competitiveness of Yugoslav contractors. Were the Bank to confine
its lending to the foreign exchange costs of projects, an adequate contribu-
tion to Yugoslavia's external capital needs could be made only by spreading
the lending over a large number'of projects, including some of lesser prior-
ity. Therefore it seems reasonable to provide for some measure of local ex-
penditure financing in the Bank's lending program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
22.       The Bank has made 32 loans totalling about US$1,021 million to
Yugoslavia. Of this amount approximately 50 percent (US$531.4 million) has
been for 12 loans for the transportation sector - six for highways totalling
US$180 million, four for railways totalling US$248 million, US$59.4 million
for the Naftagas pipeline and US$44 million for the Port of Bar Project. Bank
lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition
to the transportation loans, power (three loans totalling US$135 million),
telecommunications (one loan for US$40 million), three multipurpose projects
totalling US$103 million and US$6 million for the Dubrovnik Water Supply and
Wastewater project.   Nine loans have also been made for industry, :wo for



- 7 -
tourism and one for agricultural industries in Macedonia. This would be the
first loan for agricultural credit covering the whole of Yugoslavia. IFC has
made eight investments in Yugoslavia totalling about US$80 million.
23.       In the last few years delays in loan effectiveness have hampered
project implementation. To some extent delays are inevitable since the
clearance of loan documents involves all the Republics and Provinces in every
case. Thus conditions of effectiveness can rarely be met speedily regardless
of how well the ground is prepared. Following the adoption of a new constittt-
tion last year, the Federal Government is drawing up plans for revised
procedures which would simplify the loan ratification process and enable proj-
ect implementation to get underway more quicklv. In the meantime steps have
been taken to speed up the existing clearance procedure. All six loans ap-
proved in FY74 and the first approved in FY75, have been declared effective
and disbursements have started under all of them. Disbursements generally
have picked up substantially and have been running at a rate in excess of $100
million per annum over the past six months. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans and IFC investments as of Mlarch 31, 1975 and notes on the
execution of on-going projects.
24.       The major objectives of Bank lending to Yugoslavia are to
accelerate development in the less-developed regions of the country; to
promote agricultural development, particularly among the small private farm-
ers by providing basic infrastructure, credit, equipment and processing
facilities; to promote structural reforms in major sectors of the economy
through improved coordination and the strengthening of institutions; and to
provide Yugoslavia with long-te4m capital on favorable terms. These objec-
tives are basically the same as those which have guided Bank lending in
previous years, but efforts to give special support to the less-developed
regions and the small farmers, to whom the proposed loan is partly addressed,
are being strengthened.
25.       Over the next two years loans envisaged for the less-developed
areas include an urban pollution control project for the city of Sarajevo and
two multipurpose projects. Highway, railway, power transmission and oil
pipeline projects planned for the same period would promote structural re-
forms in the transport and energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating
several new investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would
provide technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term
capital.
26.       In addition to substantial assistance given in identifying and
preparing projects for Bank financing, the Bank is providing technical
assistance in several areas. A series of regional studies of the four less-
developed regions of Yugoslavia was initiated two years ago and two studies,
covering Kosovo and Bosnia-Her-egovina, have been completed.    A third study,



of Macedonia, was carried out last month. This series, when completed,
will contribute to a better assessment of development programs and will
assist in formulating development strategies for these regions. Other cur-
rent activities include assistance with a study on the Yugoslav capital market
designed to help improve resource mobilization and allocation, and assistance
with a training program for auditors of the Social Accounting Service, which
audits all enterprises and Government activities, including Bank-financed
projects. The SAS training program has progressed satisfactorily and furthler
training is being planned by the SAS in co-operation with an English consult-
ing firm. Yugoslavia continues to send participants to EDI courses and EDI
staff have assisted in training programs attached to some Bank-financed
projects.
27.       The level of Bank lending has risen substantially and is expected
to average about US$200 million during the period FY74-76. Although this
represents only a small proportion of the country's need for external fi-
nance, it is equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official
capital inflow in convertible currencies. Even assuming that the level of
Bank lending continues to rise during the next five years, the outstanding
debt to the Bank would remain about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external
debt. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service would
increase from 3.2 percent in 1973 to 4.8 percent in 1976.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
28.       Agriculture is no longer the leading sector in Yugoslavia but it
still absorbs 44 percent of the nation's labor force and accounts for 20 per-
cent of the social product. The social product in the agricultural sector
grew by 3.2 percent annually from 1968 to 1973, only about one-third of the
rate for industry. Favorable weather conditions and a bumper wheat and
foodgrain crop are estimated to have produced a 4 percent growth rate in 1974,
notwithstanding the late rains which delayed the harvest.
29.       Agricultural activities are many and varied.   This is partly a
result of the three distinct climatic zones which affect the country and
partly due to the topographical configuration. Although Yugoslavia is pre-
dominantly a mountainous country, 58 percent of the territory is recorded as
agricultural land, two-thirds of which is arable and the rest pasture. The
soil is better than in other southern European countries, especially in the
fertile plain in the northeast which includes Vojvodina and which, while
containing only one-sixth of the country's total area, encloses nearly one-
third of the arable land and produces more than half of the wheat and maize
and three-quarters of the sugar beet. In the hilly areas covering much of
Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia, a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountainous
regions to the west and south contain extensive upland pastures. Along the
Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic zone, vineyards and olive and
citrus groves flourish while further south, in Macedonia, sub-tropical crops
such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.



- 9 -
30.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
a private and a social sector. The social sector grew out of the post second
world war collectivization policies, aided by the Agrarian Reform of 1953,
which limited private holdings of cultivable land to 10 hectares, and brought
a further 276,000 hectares into the social sector. The social sector is made
up of a number of different institutions including kombinats (either inte-
grated factory farms or general agricultural and livestock farms), general
agricultural cooperatives and teaching and research institutions. The social
sector has continued to expand and, by 1973, embraced 15 percent of the
cultivated land, furnished 33 percent of the total agricultural product,
employed 6 percent of the agricultural manpower and included some 1,745
holdings averaging 1,247 hectares in size. In the post-war period, the
social sector has absorbed more than two-thirds of the gross fixed investment
in agriculture. The sector has also benefitted, by comparison with the
private sector, from a much higher input of trained workers and, in terms of
land and labor productivity, from being predominantly in the more fertile
areas.
31.       By contrast the private sector has suffered from increasing frag-
mentation over the years, despite an overall reduction in its share of total
land area and a national decline in the agricultural population. The average
land per holding has shrunk from 5.3 hectares in 1945 to 3.9 hectares today.
The private sector still covers 85 percent of the cultivated land and employs
96 percent of the farm population. Productivity is significantly lower than
in the social sector due to inferior land and the dearth of inputs, credit
and extension services. The number of persons who may be employed on a
wage basis is normally restricted to two. In the past the private sector
has been neglected by governmental policies but a number of measures have
been taken by some republics to help the private farmer, including the estab-
lishment of extension services and special funds, especially for improving
livestock rearing. Despite the traditional constraints, average yields on
private farms for the principal crops - wheat, maize and sugar beet - and for
livestock, have risen substantially due mainly to greater use of fertilizers,
mechanization and better husbandry. However the constraints which have im-
peded progress in the private sector in the past, still largely persist.
32.       The private and social sectors are, for the most part, complementary.
Cooperation between them usually takes the form of the provision of services,
supplies and credit by the social sector, contracting for joint production,
and trade in inputs and output. About 30 percent of all private farmers co-
operate with the social sector in one way or another, while 15-20 percent
cooperate under contract. Farmers in the least-developed areas, where
kombinats are few and far between, tend to be least affected by this coopera-
tion.
33.       The trade balance in agricultural commodities was mostly positive
in the 1960s, but by 1973 rising imports of concentrates and other feedstuffs
resulted in a large deficit. Among the leading exports are meat and live
animals. During 1974 severe constraints developed in the export of meat to
the European Economic Community which are estimated to have cost Yugoslavia
some $200 million in lost exports.



- 10 -
34.       Nearly half of the total agricultural product is traded through the
authorized social markets.   The balance is either consumed by the producers
or sold in the private markets. Prices tend to be free from intervention in
the private markets, especially for perishables. In the social markets, how-
ever, there is a guuaranteed minimum prices system applied to important agri-
cultural goods like cereals and meat and products which require processing
such as milk and sugar.
35.       The responsiblity for formulating and imnplementing agricultural
policy rests with the Republics and Provinces, all of which are represented
on the Federal Committee for Agriculture, the President of which is a member
of the Federal Executive Council with the rank of M8inister. The Committee
is responsible for coordination of agrarian policy, legislation and prices
and exports. In July 1973 an "Inter-Republican Agreement on the Long-Term
Developoment Policy for Agriculture" was finalized setting out the policy
objectives for the period 1973-85. It is the result of two to three years
inter-republican discussion and provides a comprehensive framework for the
development of agriculture encompassing, for the first time, the private as
well as the social sector. The basic aim is to raise production above the
level of domestic requirements. The agricultural development plan emphasizes
the expansion of the social sector through the use of modern production tech-
niques, expansion of processing facilities, and the development of the private
sector through cooperation with the social sector. The targeted growth rate
for agricultural production through 1985 is 3.5 percent, with the social
sector projected to grow at 7.5 and the private sector at 2 percent. Invest-
ment at the rate of about US$370 million per annum at 1974 prices is planned,
more than half of it for the private sector. Special fiscal measures will be
introduced to encourage agricuTtural investment and to facilitate the importa-
tion of machinery. The system of minimum price levels will be extended. And
cooperation between the private and social sector will be encouraged through
incentives like the availability of financing, and interest rate and tax
concessions. The social benefits available to workers in social sector enter-
prises will be extended to private farmers associated with an enterprise
through cooperative agreements.
36.       It has been part of the Bank's policv in Yugoslavia for some years
to find ways of assisting with the development of agriculture, with a special
emphasis on helping the private farmer. The 1973 agricultural development
plan thus provides a suitable framework for Bank lending, since it aims, by
explicitly supporting the private sector, to improve resource allocation and
promote more even income distribution within the sector.    The investments
to be financed under the proposed project are included in the priority list
of investments under the plan. The plan's projected growth rate for the
social sector seems optimistic.   Also some criticism has been levelled at the
assistance program for the private sector being linked to the for,nation of
cooperative arrangements with the social sector. since this may limit the
plan's ability to reach the poorer farmers in tvie motuntainous areas.   However,
in recognizing tlhe potential of thie private sector, t1he plan is a big step



- 11 -
forward towards better resource utilization. Future proposals for Bank
assistance for agriculture will include further loans for the kind of credit
facilities envisaged under this project probably supplemented, in the less-
developed regions, by loans for irriaation. Some important multi-purpose,
rural development projects in Macedonia, Montenegro and Kosovo are planned
and similar projects are under consideration for the less-developed parts of
Croatia and Serbia.
Agricultural Credit
37.       The prevailing interest rate structure in Yugoslavia varies from 3
percent for some investment loans for agriculture, or for investments using
resources from the Federal Fund for Crediting the Accelerated Development of
the Insufficiently-Developed Republics and Provinces, to 11-12 percent for
short-term loans and long-term "rcommercial" loans from the banks. With in-
flation currently exceeding 20 percent these are negative real rates. In
general official policies favor low interest rates as important for develop-
ment purposes, particularly in the less-developed regions and the agricultural
sector. However the low price of capital may have tended to lead to capital-
intensive investment and thus to aggravate unemployment and underemployment,
especially in agriculture. The use of appropriate factor prices has begun to
play a larger role in resource allocation than in the past. The interest rate
regime proposed for this project (see para. 49 below) would represent a move
towards the use of more realistic rates for making decisions on investments,
an aim upon which the Bank and IFC have been focussing for some time in their
discussions with the Yugoslav authorities on resource allocation. Agreement
has been reached that further study of interest rates in the agricultural
sector would be carried out under the proposed project.
38.       Credit to the private farmer is normally provided through a social
sector organization with which he has a cooperative agreement. Private
farmers may also obtain credit directly from the banks, usually on less
favorable terms. Under the proposed project, the private farmer would have
access to the credit facilities both directly and indirectly through the
kombinats.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project  is described in detail in the report "Appraisal
of Agricultural Credit Project: Yugoslavia" dated May 9, 1975, which is being
distributed separately. The project was appraised in September/October 1974.
Negotiations were held in Washington in March/April 1975. The Yugoslav delega-
tion was led by Mr. Miodrag Stoljiljkovic, Assistant Federal Secretary for
Finance and consisted of representatives from the Federal and Republican Gov-
ernments, Vojvodjanska Banka (VB) and the participating banks. Annex III
contains a loan and project summary.



- 12 -
Project Description
40.       The proposed loan would make funds available during a three year
investment period to VB for use in Vojvodina, and through VB to one partici-
pating bank in each of the other seven Republics and Provinces, for credit
to social sector enterprises and private farmers, for investments in agri-
culture. The funds would support the objectives of the agricultural develop-
ment plan to increase production, improve product quality and raise produc-
tivity and income, especially on private farms. The project would account for
11 percent of the agricultural development plan's projected investment during
the period.
41.       The proceeds of the loan would be allocated according to the poten-
tial for agricultural development that prevails in various parts of the coun-
try, which means that the regions with the highest potential, the more deve-
loped Republics and Provinces, would receive the bulk of the loan - 73 per-
cent - compared with 27 percent for the less-developed regions where the
absorptive capacity is much less. This allocation may seem at variance with
the Yugoslav regional development policy, and with the Bank's lending policy
of helping to channel resources to the less-developed regions. However, the
Bank expects to continue to play a major role in investments in agricultural
infrastructure which would help improve the absorptive capacity of the less-
developed Republics. The main concern of the agricultural development plan,
and thus of this project, is to provide the credit facilities where they can
be most effective. Over 40 percent of the proposed loan would be allocated
to the private sector and a significant part of this percentage would reach
the poorer farmers in whatever part of the country. The closer links that
the project would foster between the private and social sector, would help
increase the prosperity of private farmers through better access to, for
example, markets and processing plants and, in particular, help exploit their
comparative advantage in livestock production. The proposed project would
cover investments in livestock, vegetable and fruit production, land reclama-
tion and development, agro-industries including grain drying, cold storage
and milk collecting, and on-farm mechanization.
42.       Livestock is expected to constitute the largest type of investment
in both sectors, absorbing about 49 percent of total project costs. Land
reclamation for the social sector and farm mechanization for the private
sector, would be the second most important type of investment. The allocation
of types of investment by Republic or Province would vary widely. For ex-
ample 46 percent of social sector investments in Croatia would be in land
reclamation whereas in Bosnia and Kosovo 75 percent or more of social sector
investments would be in livestock. The pattern in the private sector would
be more uniform.



- 13 -
Project implementation
43.       Under the agricultural development plan a coordinating committee
was established to coordinate policy matters, including the allocation of
funds for agricultural investments. The committee will also exercise a
coordinating role for the proposed project. The committee is chaired by the
Vice-President of the Federal Committee for Agriculture, and includes repre-
sentatives from all the Republics and Provinces. Assurances were obtained
from the Federal Government that this committee would continue to exercise
its responsibilities with respect to the project.
44.       The proposed borrower would be VB, which has been designated in
the agricultural development plan as the apex bank for the project. The idea
of having an apex bank stems from the need to facilitate coordination and
implementation of the project, and to concentrate the institution-building
aspects of the proposed project initially in one bank. VB would have a dual
role. Since only one bank from each Republic or Province would participate
in the project, VB would also be responsible ror the execution of the project
in its own Province, Vojvodina. As the borrower and apex bank, VB would be
responsible for the repayment of the proposed loan, and for the overall
implementation of the project by the other participating banks. VB would
onlend to each participating bank the amount of the loan allocated to the
particular Republic or Province in which it is located. VB would enter into
agreements with each participating bank covering the policies and procedures
for sub-lending under the project. The coming into effect of all such agree-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan (Sections 3.01 (b) and 7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement). Each parti-
cipating bank would be directly responsible for the execution of the project
in its respective Republic or Province.
45.       VB was selected as the proposed borrower because Vojvodina is the
most important agricultural area in Yugoslavia and a large part of VB's opera-
tions covers the agricultural sector. It is a mixed commercial and investment
bank comparable with the borrowers selected for the Bank's industrial credit
loans. VB employs about 1,000 staff and has 14 branch offices in addition to
its head office in Novi Sad. Its management and staff are well-trained and
experienced, although lacking familiarity with the appraisal techniques
favored by the Bank. VB, like the other regional banks, operates according to
an annual "business policy", which sets out the main objectives, scope of
operations and interest rate structure. Its policies are under the general
supervision of its founders - the principal enterprises in Vojvodina. VB
also acts as a financial agent for the government of Vojvodina.
46.       A special department has been set up within VB to implement the
project. Qualified staff are being recruited and assurances have been ob-
tained from VB that the department would be appropriately staffed in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that VB would under-
take a comprehensive organizational and staff reinforcement program to help
improve their and the other participating banks' knowledge of appraisal tech-
niques and the management of a national credit system (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01 (a)). A training program for the staff of participating banks was



- 14 -
launched last January with a seminar on appraisal criteria. Bank staff would
continue to assist with the training program.
47.       VB and the other seven participating banks together account for
nearly 75 percent of the banking activity in Yugoslavia. In general the
other banks enjoy a status in their own Republics comparable with that of
VB in Vojvodina, and pursue similar operating policies and procedures. Most
of the participating banks are known to the Bank as borrowers or disbursement
agents: four of them are participants in the industrial credit project.
Project Financing
48.       The total cost of the sub-projects which the loan would help fi-
nance would be US$125 million, including $25 million of foreign exchange
costs. The proposed loan of $50 million (i.e. 40 percent of the total cost)
would be made to VB for 15 years, incluuing four years of grace. VB would
retain $13.6 million of the loan for use in Vojvodina: the balance would be
onlent to the other seven participating banks (see Annex III, page 1). The
eight participating banks, including VB, would provide $43 million of the
local costs, and the sub-borrowers the balance of US$32 million (26 percent)
from their own funds. 43 percent of the proposed loan would be allocated
to the private sector, in which 20 percent of a sub-project's cost would be
furnished by the sub-borrower and 40 percent by the participating bank. A
private farmer's contribution could be in the form of his own labor or build-
ing materials. The comparable figures for the social sector would be 30
percent equally by a sub-borrower and a participating bank. For both the
private and social sector the Bank's contribution to the cost of a subproject
would be 40 percent. Agreement was reached that, as a condition of effective-
ness, the Borrower and the participating banks would establish measures satis-
factory to the Bank to protect themselves against the risk of losses from
changes in exchange rates (Sections 5.05 and 7.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement).
It is expected that these measures would provide that social sector sub-
borrowers would carry the risk and that other suitable arrangements would be
made for loans to private sub-borrowers.
Relending Terms and Procedures
49.       Each of the other participating banks would receive from VB a
subloan out of the proceeds of the loan, at 9-1/2 percent over 15 years, in-
cluding four years of grace. Interest paid by the sub-borrower on the portion
of the subloan financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan, would be 11 per-
cent. On the portion financed from local funds, the sub-borrower would pay
interest at the prevailing rate for that type of investment in the particular
Republic or Province. These interest rates would result in a blend cost of
between 7.5 percent and 11.5 percent for the social and 7.0 and 8.5 percent
for the private sector. The regime would give the participating banks a
spread of 1.5 percent on the proceeds of the Bank loan and normally at least
0.5 percent on their local contribution. In cases where the spread were to
prove insufficient, the deficit would be met from a bank's net revenue. Grace
and repayment periods would vary with the type of investment.



- 15 -
50.       VB and the participating banks would ensure that sub-projects are
technically and financially sound. Assurances were obtained that sub-projects
would be appraised on their ability to generate an adequate cash flow to meet
all commitments and yield an adequate rate of return. Sub-projects from the
private sector coming through a social sector enterprise, would also be scru-
tinized for the adequacy of the cooperation agreement. A participating bank
would be responsible for approving sub-projects having an investment cost be-
low US$1,000,000. All sub-projects above this level would be referred to VB
for review and approval. Sub-projects costing more than US$1.5 million would
be submitted by VB to the Bank for approval. The Bank would also review and
approve the first project for both the social and private sectors from each
participating bank. In all it is expected that the Bank would review about
50 sub-projects which would total about 30 percent of the project cost. Due
to the current uncertainties in the European Communities market for meat
products, assurances were also obtained that the appraisal of cattle-fattening
sub-projects would include a detailed export market analysis and that these
sub-projects would be submitted to the Bank for approval irrespective of the
free limit (TIoan Agreement, Schedule 5).
Procurement
51.       International competitive bidding according to IBRD Guidelines,
and under the supervision of VB, would be applied by the sub-borrowers for
the procurement of cold storage facilities and the planting and harvesting
equipment for the social sector vegetable subprojects (US$7 million). The
cold storage facilities would be procured under a turnkey contract since the
processing units need to be inteorated with the freezer and chill storage
units. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15 percent margin of prefer-
ence or the actual level of import duty, whichever is less, in bid comparisons.
52.       About 1,400 in-calf heifers (UIS$2 million) for the social sector
dairy farm component would be procured from abroad through solicitation of
bids from suppliers from at least three countries. VB would maintain a con-
solidated sunmnary for each procurement of imported heifers showing the bids
received and selected together with a copy of the contract awarded to the
successful bidder.
53.       The facilities for dairy and cattle fattening farms, milk collection
stations and grain drying (US$36 million) are simple structures, widely dis-
persed throughout the country, and consist mainly of civil works. They would
be most suitable for local contractors and would, therefore, be procured
under local bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
54.       Items for on-farm development (UTS$54 million) would not be suitable
for bulk procurement and int-rnational competitive bidding because of the
phasing of subprojects and the dispersion of investors throughout the country.



- 16 -
Sub-borrowers would purchase equipment, fertilizers, seeds, livestock, small
quantities of construction materials, pipe and planting materials directly
through existing commercial channels which include both domestic and interna-
tional suppliers or through local bidding procedures. Machinery and equip-
ment dealers maintain adequate supplies of spare parts, provide servicing
and repair facilities and are suitably competitive.
Disbursements
55.       Bank disbursements would take about 4 years although the entire
loan is expected to be committed by the end of the second year. The annual
phasing of investments is shown in Annex III. Disbursement of the Bank loan
would be made against 57 percent of the social sector and 50 percent of the
private sector sub-loan amounts disbursed by VB to the participating banks.
Disbursement requests for the social sector investments would be supported
by full documentation. For sub-loans to the private sector, the Bank would
disburse against certificates of expenditure. The same procedure would apply
for disbursement by VB to the participating banks. Supporting documents and
contracts would be retained by the participating banks and would be available
for review by VB and the Bank during supervision.
Audit
56.       The accounts of Yugoslav banks are examined, once a year, by the
Social Accounting Service (SAS), which verifies the cash balances and conducts
a limited review of the financial statements for mathematical accuracy and
comparison with previous years. A more detailed field examination is con-
ducted at irregular intervals. The main purpose of the SAS examination is to
ensure that financial transactions are in compliance with the law but it does
not verify the validity of any account.
57.       In January 1974 the SAS initiated, under the auspices of Coopers
and Lybrand, a UK auditing firm, a program for training some of its staff in
modern auditing practices and this program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Auditing the Yugoslav banks poses special problems because of their size and
diversity of operations. Audit work on the Privredna Banka Sarajevo, a
borrower under the Industrial Credit project, began in 1974. During 1975
this work will be continued and work on the Stopanska Banka Skopje, the
other borrower under the Industrial Credit project, will begin. Assurances
were obtained that VB's accounts would be audited under the same arrangements
as under the Industrial Credit projects starting with the 1975 accounts, and
it is expected that the accounts of the other participating banks would be
audited in accordance with an agreed schedule (Loan Agreement, Section 5.03).
The subsidiary loan agreements would also provide that, during the transition
period, i.e., before satisfactory audits can be performed, the participating
banks would submit through VB to the Bank, SAS certified financial statements
in accordance with sound auditi4.g pri.ciples consistently applied, acceptable
to the Bank, within six months of the end of the fiscal year.



- 17 -
Economic Justification
58.       The project would result in reduced crop fluctuations and increased
production of most staple items. The annual incremental production at full
development would be worth about US$67 million. The benefit would be felt
in a number of ways including, despite the project being oriented towards the
domestic market, reduced dependence on imports e.g. feed grains, increased
exports e.g. beef and fruit, (the net foreign exchange savings and earnings
over 20 years would be US$200 million), and increased supplies for the
domestic market some of which would improve dietary habits e.g. milk. The
increased production would not cause a reduction in farmgate prices since
domestic demand is projected to outstrip production.
59.       About 380 social sector enterprises and 10,200 private sector farmers
would benefit directly from the project. The income of more than 3,000 fami-
lies would rise as a result of the increased income in the social sector.
The average farmer's income in the private sector would rise by about 170 per-
cent. Altogether some 39,000 small farmers would benefit directly or indirect-
ly from the project. There would be considerable employment benefits, includ-
ing over 6,000 man years of new jobs created in both sectors. During the im-
plementation period a further 8,700 man years of employment would be generated,
mainly for construction. The institution-building part of the proposed loan
would also have, in time, a substantial effect on resource allocation in the
agricultural sector through improved sub-project appraisal. The forging of
closer links between the private farmer and local kombinat would also lay a
firm foundation for increasing the prosperity of the farmer, providing him
with a better supply of inputs and improved market facilities.
60.       The overall economic rate of return on the project is estimated at
27 percent. The financial rates of return on typical investment models pre-
pared for the project vary from 14 to 32 percent. Some sub-projects would be
highly sensitive to changes in costs or revenues, notably in cattle fattening.
Sensitivity tests on overall costs and benefits show that, even under pessi-
mistic assumptions, the economic rate of return would not fall below 18 per-
cent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft loan agreement between the Vojvodjanska Banka and the Bank,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       Particular attention is called to the additional conditions of
effectiveness referred to in paragraphs 44 and 48.



- 18 -
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 20, 1975



IAN1NEX I
Page 1
,OicTRY DATh 71CJC60111_rb
AREA                                                 POPULATION                                    DENSITY
,001 Icr-                 20.7? nillion  (cdd-1972)                       ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~202  Per k.2of ...eble land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference     "E-. Co-antr Fdie
1~~~0  191          190           170            1970
GN? PER CAPITA U5$ (ATLAS BASIS) QI                                  375          810 Ia        780 Ia        810 Ia      3,390 Ia
DEIMO 9.7010
CuF.de Di-th rate (per thuosa..d)                                   21,          18            lb21                      13.u
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                     10            9            10            10          12.1
Intent mortality rate (per thousad lire birthe)                     78           56            56            49          23.5
Life eup-otancy at birth (yeare)                                    12           65            67 lb        619          69.4
Gro..s reprduton rate/                                             1. 3         1.3           1.5/b         1.3           1.2
n ,ult=mgoth rt       7.2                                                   1.1' /0       0.  7          .0A/         0.9 Ic
Population growth rate - urben                                       S/d          3 Id         ..37Is
Age etructue (Percent)
0-lb                                                             31                      062.7 If         26          23.0 If
15-6h                                           ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~63  6~1  62.5 77    65         653. 771'
65 and ..e.                                                                     S           9.2 77          9          103.L7?
n-nd-sy ratio lb0.                                                     /g       0.6 /P        1.1-          0.7           0.5 77
Urban population BB p ...ent of total                               29 /0,       35 Id                      La 4  /e     38.6 A-, i
Family planing:   Nic, of acoptors -uolati-n (thoo.)                   -
No. of .oeo.  (  of earned ece
EXPLOYhENT
Total labo- forc   (tho-sarde)                                   8, 3(2      8,900 /f       3,600 /'      9,900 /i     26,800 /fk
Percantags oeployed in agrIcultur                                 57           45 If       36.6  '         49 7'        8.2 t.
Perontago cne-ployed                                               7AI       3.3 /f.ud       ..0                        0.6  _
INSOME IISTRIBMTOO
Percent of national inonue reab-d by highest 5%                     17Ino        15 In O0      .              6p
Peo_nt of natiOool income reoennd by bigluet 20%                    41l          0I 
Psrcoot of na iona  -jem     --ci-ad by loweet 20%77 _                                         .24j
Percent of natioa    tom    rosro     byoret4%17tf                               19 'c
DSISTRIBUTION OF LABS EiOARSHRF
N oaned by top IONa!omnr
% ownad by sn1lleet 10% or oan-r
HEALTH ARD NUTRITION
Pnpulatioo per physician                                         1, -0,, /I   0,010         1,100           860 Ic        70
Population per noreing pere oe                                     501 7, -      10           9003I         200  i        '351
Population, per hoepital bed                                      1lq7-)        180           160 -         120            90
Per .epit. oclorie oupply os % ci (requirements IS                 l717         125A/         117           110           020 I
Per caPita Protei   supply, total (groar  per day)I6                91, 7?       92 T.         82            82            63 T0
If whc,    naol andpulse                                          2  7?,       29 7          10            26            5c 7
Death rts 1-     eae   7i4                                             7?       2.5 7?        3.2 /f        2.6           0.9 7
EDUICATION
Thju_sTscl IS primary sohool erolleert ratio                         91          9i            95           139            132
Adjusted 7? ooondruay -chn    enroll1ent ratio                       5           4             65            62            61
Years of sohooling provided, firet and second level                 12                         13         12-Ic,        I2-15
Vo..utional enrolmeet asNof -ec. ochoo.      nrlrI  n               72           72            32            58 lao        I'8
Adult lI-terac.y rain %                                             77           89/t          ..             .            9
HOUSINGl
Aseraga No. of Persons per room (urban)                            l.: L        1.3 If         ..0.              xI       0.3 I
P.rcent ofccpied units wthout piped water                           s20          66   d87                     6 bcua      0.3     .
Arsteeootf    nt   (ae % of total pepulatio)                    I                                         7  oh
Par-ot of oral ppulation c-nctod to elactriolty                     3F67   5     8                           497tX        007.
COBSIMPTICIR
Ldia. reosice     per 1070 pepluti.o                                22 IK                     ltO           1`0           316
Passeger oar    per 100  pepultton                                   3           715           60            ..221
Eleotric Pos'er-cnsuption (kah p. C.)                              527 I       ,08            766S        1 615         ..7
Newsprint consuption p.c. kag per y-a                              2.L .                       .6           2.5          1-
totes:   Pigr-o refer either to the lotest periods or- to              anoco-t of enoiromsental temperature, body ceighte, and
the Intent yfoam.   Latent periode refer in prinoiple t.               dbetributiou by age ao sea Of national populatlora.
the yours 1956-60 or 1966-70; the insect yeure in prit-            lb  Protein etandarde (requIrement.) for .3.1 ec.-triem   ac estab-
uiplo ro 1960 and 1970.                                                Iiabed by ISDAE .. lunoin uaaurh Servine provide for a si.nin
jI  The Per Copita GNP natiente in at ou-Nut prioeo for                ul1ooaoo   of 60 graze  nf total protein Per day, .in  20 gans of
y-.ur  other th., i9)60,ualoclnted by the aune co-uerolon          anlol and pulee protein, of h6mh 10 grams ahold be animal
tec=nqar us the 1972 World lank btIon.                             protein.  Theae etandard   are  -eoeaht l1ne   than thoec of 75
2A- cerg   nubor of daughtern per -unn    of rep-du-tine             graae  of total protein and 23 gane of ani-a    protein ase ani
ago.                                                               average for the   -IdA. Propoeed by 7A0 in the Third World Food
/0  Pbploti-o groth rot- ore for ihNn droadem ending in                barney
1960 and 1920.                                                 I7 lone etcdlee have e-ggested that or-de death ratee of duildr-..
/(  RatIio of  dcdr 15 cod 65 and 00cr are bracketo to                ages I throagh L may be usd aeafir-st epprni.matinm      index of
th...ac In  obr- force br-cobra of ogen 15 through 64.             el.tiin
L~ F60 refer-o     e,tandor-cl  repreneci, phyniologlc-I i-        IS   Percentage enroled of no-ro-eding popclatiuo of       ohool age
quilrr-c-t.s fcr aurnel actinity aol ~ health, taking              as onfi-rd for eanh acu-try.
'a 1672;   Ab  i965-70, 15N eti-inai;    /c  1960-72;   I/d  For- the defin.itiot. of -r-ha,se17     g1rsacCr-ob            92,p
1- ;    /0 -.ueis, tooti and 1,93    th6cr loc.lities hawing or-ha  s~ci-o-cccooic rha:coter-inti66Y7T/       T  ~        Ratio vf
poprIoLt-l a.der- 15 and 65 and ocor to total iabor- for-o;      /i  1969;    /i   weicitico: oct aoulaFB;I, Esteora
b'O cf.   - Oeo  On the maclie of o 1obo  f-ro  -uPI,     -eroyT,  AI  1625- I,     in63:   In  B...eholds;     /n  1968;
P ercerIof so1ariad     -'rkhrr   ear-nc-g sor  thoc 2,500 lei; ~q    Proe.nt of ea           rkid oncs ea,nio,g lees than 1,100 lei;
o lalocri  ofthe FrdvraiRrp:;ulxo of Gornoy  nuoJ-otire       Oouctry in based On tin close ec .nonic tico nacaic         y too
00:ies, sA aii -u r     thr fort that. te greater port Of Yugoalo-ia'e 800,003      u-hro.r, who u-hk abroad, hoce found
rol.-,o  othe Federa  Rnc:li  of Onmoony.
Alihungh b-anucc.i in sho roa     par ropito GNP g-op em Yoguslioi, it hue been selected uto-          the ucoie1 deo-lcpcrnt
pl.wnna g puliici    and pupu,loti- sloe are mi.i1or in bath.    Mu-ener, icth oouatrime have maJor- trade tire      ith ane
Tt7 N~ay '1, 1975



ANNEX I
IAPORT DETAIL                     Page 2
(million US$)
Av.1/                                    2
A.   Constant (1972) Prices              1967-69     1972     1973     19741-/   19752     976
1.  Food                               131       207      228      259      250       250
2.  Other consumer goods               309       296      295      348      315       370
3.  Petroleum                           83      161       182      205      217       230
4. Other inter-mediate goods         1,262    1,875     2,116    2,391    2,544     2,676
5.  Capital goods                      547       689      833      922      987     1,056
6.  Total goods c.i.f.               2,332     3,227    3,654    L 4,125  L,313     4,582
7.  Non-factor services                299                522      602      638       676
8.  Total goods and NFS              2,631    3,821     4,176    4,727    4,981     5,258
3.   Price Indices (1972 = 102)
1.  Food                              83.9       100    150.6    187.6    197.0     206.9
2.  Other consumer goods              78.9      100     120.5    147.0    163.1     179.4
3.  Petroleum                         81.1       100    142.5    L55.5    505.5     542.5
4.  Other intenmediate goods          81.4      100     120.5    167.8    184.2    197.2
5. Capital goods                      78.9      100     120.5    1 " .6   16o.4    173.5
6.  Non-factor services               78.9       100    123.5    154.9    169.6     183.0
C.   Current Prices
1.  Food                               110       207      343      486      493       517
2.  Other consumer goods               24h       296      356      512      563       66L
3. Petroleum                            68       161      259      934    1,097     1,24'6
4. Other internediate goods          1,027    1,875     2,550    4,013    4,686    5,278
5.  Capital goods                      h32      689     1,004    1,333    1,583    1,832
6.  Total goods                      1,880    3,227     4,511    7,278    8,422    9,538
7. Non-factor services                 236       594      657      932    1,082    1,237
8.  Total goods and NFS              2,116    3,821     5,168    8,210    9,501   tO,77
1/  Estimates.
2/  Projections.
May 1, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 3
EX:PORT DETAIL
(million US$)
A.   Constant, (1972) Prices           1966-69    1972     1973    19741-  19751/   1l976-/
1. Meat                              245      247     193       67     100      150
2. Other agricultural products        54       21      34       40      60      60
3. Wood                               69       83      68       70      71       72
4. Steel                              65       51      74       76      79       81
5. Copper                             37       53      33       33      33       33
6. Other primary metals               71       82       80      81      83       84
7. Machinery and equipment           375      544      603     664     717      774
8. Fabrics and clothing              203      274      259     261     296      313
9. All other goods                   597    1,019      918   1,085   1,150    1,25_
10. Total goods                    1,714    2,237    2,264   2,377   2,589    2,820
11. Non-factor services              743    1,188    1,249   1,303   1,381    1,460
12. Total goods and NFS            2,457    3,425    3,513   3,680   3,970    4,284
B.   Price Indices (1972 = 100)
1.  Meat                            62.9      100    127.7   140.9    160.4   169.2
2. Other agricultural products      83.5      100    150.6   186.5    205.2   215.5
3. Wood                             77.9      100    204.0   218.5    229.4   240.8
4. Steel                            51.3      100    132.0   152.2    165.5   172.2
5. Copper                          120.5      100    168.9   229.0    218.0   221.6
6. Other primary metals            103.6      100    144.7   205.3    201.0   207.2
7. Machinery and eouipment          78.9      100    120.5   145.6    161.1   173.5
8. Fabrics and clothing             78.9      100    120.5   137.3    152.3   163.6
9. All other goods                  78.9      100    120.5   171.0    187.9   144.8
10. Total goods                     77.6      100    126.0   162.5    176.9   188.1
11. Non-factor services             78.9      100    123.8   154.9    169.6   183.0
C.   Current Prices
1. Meat                              154      247      247      94      160     254
2. Other agricultural coimnodities    45       21       52      75      123     129
3. Wood                               53       83      139     152      163     173
4 . Steel                             33       51       98     116      130     139
5. Copper                             44       53       56      77       73      71
6. Other primary metals               74       82      115     167      166     175
7. Machinery and equipment           296      544      727     966    1,155   1,343
8. Fabrics and clothing              160      274      313     358      450     513
9. All other goods                   471    1,019    1,107   1,855    2,161   2,504
10. Total goods                    1,330    2,237    2,853   3,860    4,581   5,30h
11. Non-factor services              586    1,188    1,546   2,019    2,342   2,679
12. Total goods and NFS            1,916    3,425    4,399   5,879    6,923   7,983
1/   Estimates.
2/   Projections.
May 1, 1975



AI.NEX I
Page 4
SUMMARY BALkNCE OF PAYMENTS
(million US')
Av.                             3/      141       4/
1967-69     1972     1973     1974-/   1975-    1976-/
1.  imrorts (inc. NFS)              2,116     3,821    5,168    8,210   9,509   10,774
2. Exnorts (incl. NFS)              1,916     3,425   4,409    5,879    6,923    7,983
3. Blance of goods and NFS           -200      -396    -759   -2,331   -2,586   -2,791
4. Interest                           -62      -138     -155    -264     -321     -406
a.  On public debt                -56       -63      -76     -126    -150     -169
b. On other debt                   -6       -75      -79    -138     -171     -237
5. Workers' remittances               139       889    1,310   1,500    1,673    1,837
6.  Other factor services (net)       -17       -lo      -19      -8      -14      -23
7. Current transfers (net)             38        74       87     140      140      140
8. Balance of current accounts       -101       419     464     -963   -1,108   -1,2143
9. Official capital grants              -         -       -        -        -        -
100 Public M & LT loans
a. Disbursements                  185       538      400     450      500      600
b.  Repayments                   -172      -415     -293     -333    -369      -396
c.  Net Disbursements              13       123      107     117      131      204
11. Other M & LT (net) 1/
Disbursements 17              234       300      620      949    1,506    1,728
b. Repa7yments                    -38       -92     -323     -494     -528    -689
c.  Net Disbursements 1/          196       208      297      455      977   1,039
12. IMF Drawings                       -7        22        -        -        -       -
13. Other short term                  -69      -350     -307       35        -       -
14. UJse of reserves                  -33      -422     -561      356        -       -
Memo Items
15. Reserves (net), end period       -120       145      689      481      481     401
16. Debt service ratio: 2/
Public                         11.1      11.1      6.5     6.2      6.0      5.8
Total                          13.2      15.0     13.5     14.8    14.2     15.2
17. External debt outstanding
and disbursed, end period:
Public                        1,191     1,730    1,912    2,029   2,160    2,3514
'i'otal                       1,785     3,552    4,319    4,816   5,824    6,937
TBRD                            212       358      430     495      574      674
18. IBRD service as % of:
Public debt service             7.6     "14.6      9.0     9w6     1009     12.7
Total debt service              6.4       804      3.2     4.0      4.6      4.8
1/ Includes private direct investment.
2/ OnO exports (incl. NFS) plus workers' remittances.
3/ Estimates.
y7/ Projections.
May 1, 1975



ANNEX I
SELECTED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Av.         Actuals                                     Growth Rates                      As % of ODY
T167-6.  T1972    197     1974    191965-70                  1970-73   1973-76    s1 972     1 7 
National Acoounts
(average 1967-69 prices; million US$)
GDP                                     10,542   13,491   14,375  15,450  16,704 17,957      4.7       6.1       7.6       100.0     101.0    101.2
Gains from terms of trade                    1       -7     -18     -155    -174    -211                                     -        -1 .0    -1.2
Gross Donmestic Income                  10,543   13,484   14,357  15,295 16,530   17,746     4.7       6.1       7.3       100.0     100.0    100).
Imports (incl. NFS)                      2,116    3,270    3,377   3,681   4,005   4,500    11.5       6.4      10.0        24.3     24.1      25.14
Ecports (import capacity, incl. NFS)     1,918    2,647    2,810   2,829   3,022  3,346      7.7       8.3       6.0        19.6      18.5     18.8
Resource gap                               198      623      567     852     983   1,154                                     47        5.6      6.6
Consumption                              7,628    9,861   10,257  10,953 11,688   12,591     6.2       5.1       7.1        73.1      71.6     71.0
Investment (incl. stocks)                3,113    4,246    4,667    5,194  5,825   6,309     14.0      7.14     10.6        31.5      314.0    35.6
National Savings                         3,013    4,364    4,887    5,279  5,758   6,161     3.0      11.4       8.0        32.4      34.5     34.7
Domestic Savings                         2,915    3,623    4,100   4,342   4,842   5,155     1.1       8.9       7.9        26.9      28.4     29.0
Price Indices (1967-69 = 100)
Import priceBildex                          98.3    12204    147.0   173.0   203i6   239,7   2.8       9-7      17,7
lport price index                           98.3    121.6    146.1   163.3   182.6   204.0   2.8      15.0      11.6
Terms of trade index                       100.0     99.3     99.4    94.4    89.7    85.5   0.0       0.2      _5.2
Public Finance
(current prices; million UJS$)
Current receipts                                  5,206    6,560   7,819   9,320 lo,624               12.5      19.2
Current expenditures                              4,382    5,521    6,581  7,8414  8,91,2             16.3      19.2
Budgetary savings                                   824    1,039    1,238  1,1476  1,682      ,       -1.7      19.2
Other public saving                                      -           -
Public sector investment                   848      8141   1,039   1,238   1,476   1,682      .        1.6      19.2
May 1, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at March 31, 1975)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year           Borrower               Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
Thirteen Loans fully disbursed                                 326.2
531     1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank       Railways         50.0       1.0
657     1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank       Telecommuni-     40.0       2.3
cations
678     1970   SFRY                           Roads            40.0       3.6
751     1971   SFRY                           Roads            35.0       7.4
752     1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran       Tourism          10.0       8.7
777     1971   SFRY                           Multi-purpose    45.0      39.7
Water
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                      Tourism          20.0      17.7
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia      Power            75.0     54.0
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries    31.0      20.7
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline     59.4      53.1
947     1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry      14.5     10.8
965     1974   IMT                            Tractor Factory   18.5     15.8
966     1974   FOB                            Iron Foundry      15.0     12.7
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina Road Fund   Roads             30.0     21.2
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial
Credit        28.0      28.0
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo       Industrial
Credit        22.0      22.0
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                      Railways         93.0     93.0
1060*   1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion 44.0      44.0
1066*   1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply
and Waste-
water            6.0      6.0
Total (less cancellation)                            1021.1    461.7
of which has been repaid                            116.4
Total now outstanding                                 904.7
Amount sold                              7.7
of which:  Amount repaid               6.1            1.6
Total now held by Bank                                903.1
Total undisbursed                                             461.7
*    Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1975)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year            Obligor                        Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1970      International Investment Corpora-   Investment        -       2.0    2.0
tion for Yugoslavia            Corporation
1970      Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive       5.0      8.0    13.0
Industry
1971      Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev     Automotive       7.5      2.3     9.8
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-        Industry
Humboldt Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972      FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler          Automotive      13.0      3.0    16.0
Benz  A.G.                          Industry
1972      Sava/Semperit                        Tires           4.0      1.5     5.5
1973      Belisce/Bell                         Pulp and Paper 13.4       -     13.4
1974      Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO            Special Steel   10.0       -     10.0
1974      Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant   10.0       -     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                  62.9     16.8    79.7
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                                  9.0      2.4   11.4
Total Commitments held by IFC                            53.9     14.4    68.3
Total Undisbursed                                        23.9      6.6    30.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 531 Belgrade-Bar Railway:  US$50.0 million Loan of March 22, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The completion of this project was originally scheduled for 1973
but geo-technical and other construction difficulties in mountainous terrain
are expected to delay operation of the line at least until 1976. The Closing
Date will be adjusted when the final completion date is known.
As a result of inflation and cost overruns, the total project cost
has increased from $225.5 million to $350.0 million. Supplementary finance
authorized under existing legislation was exhausted at the end of 1974. How-
ever, a further US$59 million, approved in principle, is awaiting completion
of the legislative process and adequate interim finance is being provided by
local banks.
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
Delays in civil works have occurred which will delay completion of
the project until late 1975. With the exception of the earth satellite sta-
tion, only preliminary works have been completed. A cost overrun of US$5.1
million for orders already placed is expected due to currency revaluations.
Following a revision of the disbursement schedule, disbursements are now in
line with the revised projections.
Loan 678 Fourth Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of May 28, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
After an initial delay of about one year in starting work on the
Sarajevo-Zenica section because of difficulties in acquiring the right-of-way,
and delays due to inclement weather in 1974, work on this section is proceeding
satisfactorily and all nine sections are expected to be substantially com-
pleted in the fall of 1975. The Closing Date has been postponed from June
30, 1974 to December 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.                    r



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date: September 1, 1976.
After a delay of about eight months in fulfilling the conditions
for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections is expected
to be completed by the end of 1975. A 10 percent increase in the appraisal
cost estimate is expected, and the disbursement percentage will be revised
when firm construction costs are established later this year. Disbursements
under the loan are about one year behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date; June 30, 1976.
There have been delays in implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective, appointing consultants, providing the
necessary infrastructure and approvals by local authorities. As a result
disbursements are behind schedule. Bids received in July 1974 indicated that
the project, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds)
would cost approximately 100 percent above the originally estimated cost of
US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly due to rapid inflation in construc-
tion costs. The Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a
reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds. The total cost would be US$35.8
million, requiring additional financing of about US$10 million. Financing
for the revised project has been arranged and construction has begun.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. However,
construction is now well underway with the main dam scheduled for completion
in 1976 and the irrigation networks in 1977. Project costs are currently
estimated to be about 17 percent above the appraisal estimate. Additional
funds are being provided by the Province of Kosovo. Disbursements are
proceeding in line with the revised schedule. Arrangements for land conso-
lidation and agricultural extension services have been delayed but proposals
are now being studied.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971;
Closing Date: July 31, 1976.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. According-
ly disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have now been
largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule. Bids for
civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project would
cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million). This
increase is largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank
and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a reduced complex containing



ANNEX II
Page 5
some 2,034 beds. The total cost would be US$51.5 million requiring addi-
tional financing of about US$1.6 million. Financing for the revised project
has been arranged and construction has begun.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project execution began about one year behind schedule mainly
because of coordination difficulties and inherent delays in reaching agree-
ment among 12 borrowers. (This is the first attempt at countrywide coordina-
tion in the sector). All major contracts have been awarded and construction
is' proceeding satisfactorily. Action on appointment of Management consultants
to help improve planning, operation and management of the interconnected
power system is lagging and reporting, especially on financial matters, has
been deficient; accordingly, financial performance of some of the borrowers
is in doubt. Also, in response to the principles of self-management, certain
of the borrowers have reorganized and further reorganizations may be expected,
complicating the task of assessing financial performance. Cost overruns of
about 50 percent are expected to be met from loans from the Federal Republic
of Germany and the borrowers' own resources.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Forty-two of the expected 43 social sector subloans, and 35 private
sector subloans (81% of the amount allocated) have been approved by the lending
institution. Private sector demand for subloans already exceeds financing
available under the project. Four social sector sub-projects have been com-
pleted and twenty-nine are under construction. Progress is being made on the
three studies encompassed by the project.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This loan became effective on March 22, 1974, after about four
months' delay. Bids received on pipes and equipment exceeded appraisal es-
timates and civil works costs have increased so that project costs are now
about 93 percent above the appraisal estimate. Additional local finance for
civil works is being arranged but little additional foreign finance for pipes
and equipment is available. Discussions continue with the Borrower to trim
the project of its less essential items and to revise the implementation
schedule for the reduced project.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on May 28, 1974 after four months
delay, which was primarily due to the extra time required for the ratification
of the Guarantee Agreement by the Federal Assembly. Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan became effective on May 28, 1974. Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule and disbursements are underway.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan became effective on June 11, 1974. Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule and disbursements are underway.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30 million Loan of May 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on December 10, 1974. Project
implementation is proceeding on schedule and disbursements have begun.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Closing date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on December 19, 1974 and five
subprojects including one below the free limit have been approved for disburse-
ments.
Loan 1013 Bosnia Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Closing date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on December 19, 1974 and six
subprojects (including three below the free limit) have been approved for dis-
bursements.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93 million Loan of July 10, 1974;
Closing date: December 31, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on February 12, 1975 and disburse-
ments have begun.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSLAVIA: Agricultural Credit Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Vojvodjanska Banka (VB)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:              US$50 million, equivalent in various currencies.
Beneficiaries:       One participating bank, including VB, in each Republic
and Province, as follows:
US$ Million
Croatia:  Udruzena Banka Zagreb              10.2
Serbia:  Beogradska Banka                     9.6
Slovenia:  Ljubljanska Banka                  3.0
Vojvodina:  Vojvodjanska Banka               13.6
Kosovo:  Kosovska Banka Pristina              2.4
Macedonia:  Stopanska Banka Skopje            5.1
Montenegro:  Investiciona Banka Titograd      0.7
Bosnia-Herzegovina: Privredna Banka
Saraj'evo                                5.4
50.0
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including four years of grace,
with interest at 8-1/2 percent.
Relending Terms:    VB would charge a 1 percent spread on the proceeds of
the loan onlent to the other participating banks, with
the same amortization and grace periods. On the portion
of a subloan financed out of the proceeds of the Bank
loan 11 percent interest would be charged. On the portion
of a subloan financed out of local funds, the rate for the
type of investment in a particular Republic or Province
would prevail. Grace and amortization periods would vary
but would not exceed five and fourteen years respectively.
Project Description:The project would make funds available to VB (for Vojvodina)
and through VB, to one participating bank in each of the
other seven Republics and Provinces, for credit to social
sector enterprises and private farmers, for investments
in agriculture. The funds would support the objectives
of the agricultural development plan to increase production,
improve product quality and raise productivity and income,
especially on private farms. The more developed Republics



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
and Provinces would receive the bulk of the loan - 73
percent compared with 27 percent for the less-developed.
43 percent of the proposed loan would be allocated
to the private sector and a significant part of that
percentage would reach the poorer farmers in whatever
part of the country. The proposed project would cover
investments in livestock, vegetable and fruit pro-
duction, land reclamation and development, agro-industries
including grain drying, cold storage and milk collecting,
and on-farm mechanization.
Estimated Cost:                                               US$ '000
Local   Foreign      Total
Social Sector
Livestock Production          14,041    4,461      18,502
Vegetable Production           1,342    4,490       5,832
Land Reclamation              11,957    2,831      14,788
Agro-Industries                6,084    4,018      10,102
Subtotal                   33,424   15,800     49,224
Private Sector
Livestock Production          21,286    1,514      22,800
Vegetable Production           2,318      619       2,937
Fruit Production               3,812      719       4,531
On-farm Mechanization          4,228      667       4,895
Land Development                 510       46         556
Subtotal                   32,154    3,565      35,719
Contingency Allowances
Physical (5 percent)           3,281      968       4,249
Price (40 percent)            30,854    4,954      35,808
Subtotal                   34,135    5,922      40,057
Total Project Costs             99,713   25,287     125 ?
Financing Plan:                                      US$          Percent of
Sources                 millions     Total Financing
IBRD                       50.0             40
Participating Banks        42.9              34
Sub-borrowers              32.1             26
125.0            100



ANNE. I-A-l
Page 3 of 3
Estimated
Disbursements:                          Financial Year       Amount (US$'000)
1976                     950
1977                   16,650
1978                   21,750
1979                   10,650
Procurement
Arrangements:       International competitive bidding according to IBRD
Guidelines, and under the supervision of-VB, would be
applied by the sub-borrowers for the procurement of cold
storage facilities and the planting and harvesting
equipment for the social sector vegetable subprojects
(US$7 million). The cold storage facilities would be
procured under a turnkey contract since the processing
units need to be integrated with the freezer and chill
storage units. Domestic manufacturers would receive a
15 percent margin of preference or the actual level of
import duty, whichever is less, in bid comparisons.
About 1,400 in-calf heifers (US$2 million) for the social
sector dairy farm component would be procured from abroad
through solicitation of bids from suppliers from at least
three countries. VB would maintain a consolidated summary
for each procurement of imported heifers showing the bids
received and selected together with a copy of the contract
awarded to the successful bidder. The facilities for
dairy and cattle fattening farms, milk collection stations
and grain drying (US$36 million) are simple structures
widely dispersed throughout the country, and consist
mainly of civil works. They would be most suitable for
local contractors and would, therefore, be procured under
local bidding procedures. Items for on-farm development
(US$54 million) would not be suitable for bulk procurement
and international competitive bidding because of the
phasing of subprojects and the dispersion of investors
throughout the country. Sub-borrowers would purchase
equipment, fertilizers, seeds, livestock, small quantities
of construction materials, pipe and planting materials
directly through existing commercial channels which include
both domestic and international suppliers or through local
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Machinery
and equipment dealers maintain adequate supplies of spare
parts, provide servicing and repair facilities and are
suitably competitive.
Economic Rate
of Return:          27 percent.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:    June 30, 1979
Appraisal Report     Report No. 737-YU, dated May 9, 1975
Agricultural Credit and Agro-Industries Division
Projects Department, EMENA Region



