Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3791b-PA
STAFF APPRAISAIL REPORT
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PARAGUAY
April 19, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit: Guarani (¢)
US$1          : t 126
i 1           : US$0.008
¢ 1,000,000  : US$7,936.50
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           : 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km): 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                : 0.26 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCE     National Council for Economic Coordination
CPS      President Stroessner City
DGECP    General Directorate for Execution and Budget Control
DGT      General Directorate for Transport
DGV      General Directorate for Highways
ER       Economic Return
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IBR      Rural Welfare Institute
MAG      Ministry of Agriculture
MOPC     Ministry of Public Works and Communications
OCPIT    Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of Transport
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
PCR      Project Completion Report
UCR      Feeder Roads Unit
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
VPD      Vehicles per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PARAGUAY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..............................................                 1
A.   Sector Background .....................................    1
B.   Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector ....              ........    3
(i) Overview .......................................               3
(ii) Projects Completed  .............................    3
(iii) Ongoing Projects  ...............................               5
II.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND POLICY lMPROVEMENIS   .......
A. General                               . .    7
B.   The Planning Process  .................................                7
C.   The Highway Program ..................................                 8
D.    Highway Financing ....................................                9
E.    Staffing of DGV ................       ..     ....................   10
F.    Staffing of OCPIT  ....................................   11
G.   Management of Maintenance Operations                  .      .        12
(i) Maintenance and Betterment Planning ....            ........   12
(ii) Equipment Management  ...........................   13
(iii) Axle Weight Control ............................   14
H.  Accounting and Auditing  .............        ..     ................   14
I.  Perspectives for the Highway Subsector  ....... .........   14
III. THE PROJECT ...............................................   16
A.    Project Objectives and Components  .................          ...   16
(i) Construction and Upgrading of Primary Roads  ....    17
(a)  The San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala Road ... .....   17
(b)  The Tacuara-Santa Rosa Road  ....           ...........   18
(c)  The Villarrica-Numi Road ....             ..............   19
(d)   Supervision of Civil Works  ....          ............   19
(ii) Strengthening of Sectoral Planning and DGV's
Capacity    ................................ ....         19
(a) Training of DGV's Staff in Highway
Engineering  .............................   20
(b)  Pavement Evaluation  .......................   20
(c) Technical Assistance to OCPIT for Transport
Planning    ................................         21
(iii) Improvement of the Efficiency of Maintenance
Operations    .................................         21
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Paraguay during
September 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Paz-Estenssoro (Economist), Jorge
Lanas (Engineer), Raul Paraud (Engineer-Consultant), and Rene Jarquin (Financial
Analyst-Consultant). Mrs. M. Pokorny assisted in the economic evaluation. The
report has been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page no.
III THE PROJECT (Continued)
B.   Summary of Economic Evaluation .......................   22
C.   Cost Estimates .......................................   22
D.   Financing ............................................   24
E.   Disbursement .........................................   25
F.   Implementation, Procurement and Monitoring ....          .......  26
G.   Risk .................................................   27
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   28
TABLES
1 - Staffing Schedule ..........................................   31
2   Projected Routine Maintenance Expenditures (1982-1986)                  32
3 - Projected Highway Network to be Routinely Maintained .......  33
4 - Betterment and Rehabilitation Program (1982-1986) .... ......   34
5 - Design Standards for Project Roads .........................   35
6 - Tentative List of Equipment Purchases ......................   36
7 - Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursement ....           ..........   37
8 - Implementation Schedule ....................................   38
ANNEXES
1 - Ministerial Decree No. 615 .................................   39
2 - OCPIT's Program of Activities for 1983-1984 ....            ............   41
3 - Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Highway
Engineering Training .....................................   42
4 - Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for the
Management of Equipment Fleet and Workshops ....           ..........   46
5 - Details of the Economic Evaluation .........................   50
6 - Project Monitoring Indexes .................................   59
7 - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File ...   61
MAPS
IBRD 12831R - PARAGUAY, Main Highway Network
IBRD 12832R2 - PARAGUAY, Highway Network: Bank Projects



I. INTRODUCTION
Since this is a repeater project, the Staff Appraisal
Report has been simplified; it includes only a general
overview of the highway subsector, a description of
the Bank's involvement in the subsector and details
of the project components, cost estimates, financing,
implementation and monitoring.
A.   Sector Background
i.01      During the past five years, while GDP grew at an average rate of
8.8% p.a., the transport sector of Paraguay has accompanied economic
development with a relatively steady 3.3% of GDP. During the same period,
transport investment has averaged 24% of fixed public sector investment and
about 2.5% of GDP. Landlocked, with a primnarily high-volume/low-product-
value based economy, Paraguay relies heavily for its continued economic
development on its transport system and the connecting links to major ports
in neighboring countries. Domestic traffic is basically attended by road
transport, while foreign trade is carried by river transport (79% of
imports and 39% of exports in 1979) and road transport (18% of imports and
53% of exports in 1979). Railway traffic is of minor importance. Air
transport demand is growing moderately, and, although low in absolute
terms, domestic services are important, particularly in regions where they
constitute the only means of rapid access for passengers. An indicator of
the importance of, and the need for, efficient transport is the fact that
freight costs amounted to 23% of the f.o.b. value of exports and 14% of the
f.o.b. value of imports in 1979.
1.02      Paraguay has steadily pursued the task of building its primary
network. Main roads have gradually been upgraded to paved standards. The
paved road network now totals about 1,500 km against 470 km in 1965. About
85% of the estimated 10,300 km of highways are unpaved, generally built
without adequate standards and drainage systems, and are closed to
vehicular traffic an average of 100 days per year during rainy periods to
prevent deterioration.  The rapid growth of agricultural production and the
expansion of cultivated acreage have multiplied the need for betterment of
feeder roads. Several rural development and highway projects include
specific feeder road components. Another important step has been the
creation, under the latest Bank project, of the Feeder Roads Unit (UCR)
within the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC). UCR would
provide the capability needed to plan and coordinate the expansion of the
network of tracks and rural roads in developing areas. A Feeder Roads
Coordinating Committee, including representatives from the Rural Welfare
Institute (IBR), the Ministry of Agriculture (MAC) and MOPC has also been
established.



- 2 -
1.03      A third element of the road policy has been the buildup of road
maintenance capability.  Since 1960, successive prograns have supported the
growth of a modest and uncoordinated maintenance department into a country-
wide organization which, although still facing significant constraints, is
proving capable of maintaining reasonable levels of serviceability on the
main roads. Since the mid-1970s, control of overloading has been a
component of the maintenance policy. The major issues currently facing the
transport sector, including the highway subsector, are the lack of a
comprehensive planning and management system and the shortage of trained
personnel.
1.04      Transport sector planning, including highway planning, is not
carried out as a systematic and continued task.  Over the last 20 years,
several medium and long-term transport plans and investment programs have
been prepared with UNDP or Bank financing.  They have provided a framework
to support the basic objectives of expanding and upgrading the primary road
network and, later on, to set up the maintenance system.  Paraguay's trans-
port system has grown in complexity and size. Expansion of the basic net-
work now has to be balanced with growing maintenance and pavement strength-
ening requirements and with the need for betterment of secondary and rural
roads to support rapid agricultural development. The focus of the planning
effort must shift from large individual primary and secondary road projects
to diversified programs requiring coherent planning and programing
methods. The creation, in October 1972, of the Office of Coordination and
Integral Planning of Transport (OCPIT) as a sectoral planning advisory
group in MOPC has initiated, with the assistance of consultants, the devel-
opment of "in-house" planning capability for the transport sector. OCPIT
has developed sectoral data and methodologies for projects evaluation. It
has also assisted in the preparation of large projects for external financ-
ing. OCPIT has, however, not been sufficiently involved in the planning
and programing process itself, particularly in the selection of projects
and in determining the balance between components of various programs. The
next necessary step is to internalize the planning function in the modal
agencies, including the General Directorate for Highways (DGV), and to
coordinate physical planning and financial programing with the annual
budget cycle. These are the key institutional objectives of this project.
1.05      DGV does not have a sufficient number of engineers and other
professionals to upgrade its planning and programing function, to carry
out its ongoing construction program for primary roads, to expand its rural
roads program and to pursue improvement in road maintenance. DGV's
staffing problem results from the countrywide shortage of trained
professionals and the low level of remuneration for public sector
employees. The lack of a well defined recruitment and personnel management
system is an additional constraint. DGV has been able to alleviate the
situation to some degree by "topping-up" the salaries of key personnel, a
policy supported under the ongoing Bank-financed Fifth and Sixth Highway



-3-
Projects. Only a handful of senior staff have civil service status; the
rest (more than 90% of all engineers) cannot acquire permanent status in
their jobs nor do they have social and retirement benefits. Most of them
consider their work with DGV as a stepping stone toward jobs with the
private sector.
1.06      Although DGV lacks the necessary planning capacity, the
Government's current strategy for the highway subsector is basically sound;
it supports the continued development of the primary network, the expansion
of agriculture by providing access roads and the strengthening of mainte-
nance. This strategy is supported by the Bank's ongoing Fifth (primary
roads and maintenance) and Sixth (primary roads and feeder roads) Highway
Projects. The present project would supplement and continue ongoing
efforts to expand and upgrade the primary network and to perform mainte-
nance more efficiently. It would also continue to support the institu-
tional strenthening of DGV by building up its staff and developing its
planning, programing and engineering capabilities. The formulation of
specific measures to advance the two latter objectives was an important
element of project preparation.
B.   Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector
(i) Overview
1.07      The Bank has been involved in Paraguay's highway subsector since
1951 when equipment to build feeder roads was financed as part of an agri-
cultural project. Since October 1961, six highway projects have been fi-
nanced (total lending about US$103.0 million), four of which have been com-
pleted. When the two ongoing projects are completed, more than 1,200 km of
primary roads will have been upgraded/strengthened, and a maintenance
capacity will have been established in DGV. Four rural development
projects have provided about US$16.0 million for improvement and mainte-
nance of about 1,500 km of feeder roads. Besides highways and feeder
roads, the Bank financed a port project for Asuncion (Loan 437-PA,
US$2.75 million, 1965).
(ii) Projects Completed
1.08      Prior to the First Highway Construction and Maintenance Project
(Credit 12-PA, US$6.0 million, October 1961), coordination and control of
maintenance operations were largely ineffective. The 2,500-km road network
did not, in fact, receive systematic and organized maintenance. Workshops
and repair facilities needed urgent improvement. The First Highway Project
included: (a) reconstruction and paving of the Paraguari-Encarnacion road
(302 km); (b) construction of a major bridge; (c) purchase of maintenance
equipment; and (d) preparation of a master plan for maintenance. However,
redesigning of the road and bridge--to protect them from severe floods such
as those which occurred during the final design stage in 1963--resulted in
delays and higher costs.  Supplementary financing proved necessary, and the
Bank provided the needed support through Loan 396-PA of US$2.2 million in
December 1964. Execution was further hampered by poor contractor perform-
ance and by flooding in 1965 and 1966. The project was completed in 1970;
its total cost came to almost 25% above the initial estimates.



- 4 -
1.09      The equipment provided under the first project did help to
improve maintenance operations. However, the quantity of equipment on hand
was clearly insufficient to cope with the growing needs. There was,
therefore, a sense of urgency to undertake further improvement of main-
tenance operations. The consultant firm Brown and Root (US) was retained
under the first project for the preparation of a maintenance master plan
that provided the basis for developing a four-year maintenance program
(1970-1973) for the continued expansion and improvement of maintenance
operations. The consultants' master plan also became an effective basis
for the preparation and appraisal of the subsequent Second Road Maintenance
Project.
1.10      While implementation of the First Highway Project was progressing
with difficulties over the period 1961-1970, the Second Road Project
(construction) (Loan 443-PA, US$2.1 million, April 1966) was prepared and
appraised. It provided for: (a) the reconstruction and paving of a 43-km
road section (Coronel Oviedo-Villarrica)- and (b) feasibility studies for
450 km of roads in the "Plan Triangulo" /, identified under a UNDP study,
and detailed engineering for about 260 km of those roads with the highest
priority. The studies got under way in 1969 after substantial delays; they
were completed in 1973 and provided the basis for the preparation of the
Fourth Highway Project (para 1.12). The road construction work was satis-
factorily completed in October 1969. Mainly because of the effects of the
1965/1966 floods and partly because of inadequate design, additional work
was required, which increased total project costs by almost 25% above
appraisal estimates. The Second Road Project was the subject of an
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Audit Report No. 558-PA, dated
October 30, 1974, which concluded that, in spite of the overrun, the
project had been completed satisfactorily and had broadly met its
objectives. The Audit Report pointed out the need to base project
appraisal upon detailed engineering.
1.11      The Second Road Maintenance Project (Loan 652-PA, US$6.0 million,
January 1970) supported a four-year (1971-1974) highway maintenance pro-
gram, which was carried out with the assistance of consultants Jorgensen-
Tecnipar (US-Paraguay). Some US$5.5 million worth of maintenance equipment
was purchased. A central workshop and 13 district workshops were built,
and a training program for engineers, technicians, mechanics and operators
was instituted. Maintenance allocations were increased throughout the
project execution period in compliance with loan covenants. Although some
delays occurred during execution, the project was successfully completed in
1975, and created among the Paraguayan authorities, and within the
transport industry in general, a feeling of the importance, and the
economic impact, of good maintenance of the road network. The OED Audit
Report (No. 2023 dated April 14, 1978) concluded that the project was well
justified and had broadly achieved its objectives; the training program was
particularly successful. The report, however, stressed the importance of
pursuing the strengthening of the maintenance organizaton, for which three
important conditions were required: (a) adequate supply of spare parts;
(b) systematic replacement of equipment; and (c) strengthening of DGV's
1/ The triangle: Asuncion, Encarnacion, Ciudad Presidente Stroessner.



staff. Action on these three points was taken in the subsequent Fourth and
Fifth Highway Projects. Generally, the project enlarged the scope of
collaboration between MOPC and the Bank in the highway subsector.
1.12      The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1059-PA, US$14.5 million, 1974)
has three main components: (a) construction of the Mbocayaty-Colonia
Independencia road (24 km), and the Encarnacion-Pirapo road (76 km) both to
paved surface; (b) technical assistance for transport planning and project
preparation and extension of technical assistance for highway maintenance;
and (c) a study of the needs of the local construction industry and related
MOPC practices and regulations. Financing of spare parts, tires and
batteries was also included at the Government's request. This project has
recently been completed (PCR of April 20, 1981). Because of contractors'
lagging capacity, civil works components were completed considerably behind
schedule (about one year for the Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia road and
more than two years for the Encarnacion-Pirapo road). Quality of works,
however, was good, and total costs were within the appraisal estimates,
including contingencies. Technical assistance to OCPIT for transport
planning extended over the two-year period 1976-1977 and resulted, inter
alia, in the updating of the Transport Plan and in recommendations for
sector management dated May 1977. The technical assistance for highway
maintenance, which was an extension of that included in the previous
project, completed a study of maintenance needs in April 1977. This study
served as a basis for the Fifth Highway Project.
(iii) Ongoing Projects
1.13      The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1529-PA, US$33.0 million, 1978;
with co-financing by the Bank of Nova Scotia, US$5.0 million) addresses a
number of objectives: (a) upgrading and paving of the Coronel Oviedo-
Tacuara road (91 km) and of the Tacuara-San Estanislao spur (7 km); works
are under way and expected to be completed by late 1982; (b) resealing and
partial strengthening of the Paraguafi-Encarnacion road (303 km), recently
completed (October 1981); (c) strengthening and expansion of MOPC's mainte-
nance capacity for the national highway network; and (d) continued
strengthening of transport planning and coordination. The maintenance
component of the project largely reflects experience gained under previous
projects; points of emphasis are renewal and rehabilitation of road
maintenance equipment, supply of spare parts, systematic traffic counting
program, road inventory data including feeder roads and enforcement of
vehicle weight regulations. A Project TUnit, which constitutes the present
technical support of DGV regarding maintenance, was set up. Equipment,
spare parts and workshop tools have already been purchased in support of an
overhaul and replacement program for maintenance equipment. Traffic
counters and weighing scales have been ordered.
1.14      There are several matters pending under Loan 1529-PA which have
been delayed or not yet properly addressed, mainly because of procurement
delays or shortage of staff. These matters were reviewed in detail at the
time of appraisal of the present project and are the following:



-6
(a) The Equipment Overhaul Program. The equipment units have
been identified, spare parts have been purchased and an addi-
tional mechanical engineer has been hired and attached to
DGV's Maintenance Department. The program has started and
is scheduled to be completed by mid-1983.
(b) The Annual Betterment Program (combination of maintenance and
upgrading of earth roads providing improvement in drainage
and gravel course). This program, which initially set a
target of 5,200 km for 1979-1982, was carried out on a
piecemeal basis according to immediate needs dictated by
traffic growth. Beginning with the 1983-1986 Highway Program
(para 2.05), DGV would systematically plan and upgrade the
technical preparation of its road betterment subprogram in
annual tranches. The betterment subprograms would be part
of the Four-Year Highway Program.
(c) Preparation of a Set of Road Design Standards and Construc-
tion Specifications for All Classes of Roads. This study has
not yet been carried out because of the staff shortage. With
the new staffing plan agreed in paragraphs 2.12 and 2.13, DGV
should have sufficient expertise for the preparation of the
design standards and specifications.
(d) Systematic Traffic Counting. Vehicles and traffic counters
have been purchased; the counting program is being initiated
by the General Directorate for Transport (DGT). Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the resulting summary
reports would be submitted to the Bank for review every six
months starting from December 31, 1982.
1.15      The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1736-PA, US$39.0 million, 1979),
with co-financing provided by Lloyds Bank International (US$7.0 million),
has the following objectives: (a) construction, including paving, of
Route 6 from Pirapo to Route 7 (about 180 km), thus completing the triangle
Asuncion-Encarnacion-C.P. Stroessner; (b) engineering and construction of
about 500 km of feeder roads complementing the above improvement of
Route 6; (c) establishment of a Feeder Roads Coordinating Committee and
establishment and operation within DGV of a Feeder Roads Unit (UCR);
(d) continuation of a program to assist MOPC's transport planning unit
OCPIT; and (e) a survey of the availability of local road construction and
maintenance materials and a study of the technology required to use them in
road construction and maintenance; this component is under way. The
project is expected to be completed by late 1985.



-7-
1.16      The Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1418-PA, 1977) pro-
vided US$17.7 million for construction of 99 km of all-weather and 238 km
of earth feeder roads in the Itapua Department. The Livestock and
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA, 1979), also has a road
component, for which US$2.5 million are provided for construction of
120 km, improvement of 120 km and a four-year continuous maintenance of
about 500 km of feeder roads.
1.17      The recently approved Caazapa Area Development Project (Loan
2087-PA, 1982) provides US$12.2 million to build 50 km of a secondary
road and 220 km of feeder roads.
II. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND POLICY IMPROVEMENTS
A.   General
2.01      The proposed project would pursue and complement the sectoral
objectives of ongoing projects in the following specific areas:
-   strengthening of the planning and financial programing
process in the transport sector;
-   introduction of a Four-Year Highway Program as a
vehicle to upgrade the subsector's management;
-   staffing of DGV and training of its personnel and staffing of
OCPIT;
-   improvement in management of maintenance operations; and
-   upgrading of the accounting and auditing procedures.
B.   The Planning Process
2.02      As part of the recommendations of the first phase of the 1972-
1973 Transport Survey (financed by UNDP), the Government created OCPIT in
1972 as a sectoral advisory unit attached to the Minister's Office. Its
principal tasks consisted basically of identifying transport projects,
tentatively formulating ten-year investment programs and studying tariffs.
With consultants' assistance provided under the Fourth Highway Project,
OCPIT began a systematic collection of data relevant to transport planning
and undertook a series of transport studies, including detailed feasibility
studies for about 700 km of roads. OCPIT also examined about 3,450 km of
roads for inclusion in the ten-year preliminary investment program
1977-1986, later updated to cover the 1981-1990 period. Attached to
OCPIT, a UNDP-financed expert assists at present in the preparation of
preinvestment studies.
2.03      On October 22, 1981, as a result of a review of planning
procedures carried out in the framework of the preparation of the proposed
project, MOPC issued Ministerial Decree No. 615 (Annex 1) establishing
procedures and schedules whereby a four-year transport working and



investment plan would be prepared and updated each year. During March/
April 1982 and henceforth every year, the transport sector agencies 2/
would prepare four-year working and investment programs and the correspond-
ing financing plans in the framework of the Government's economic and
sectoral policies. These programs would be sent to OCPIT, which would be
responsible for determining preliminary economic priorities, taking into
account the effects on the overall transport system. Once OCPIT has estab-
lished the relative priorities and the resulting financial requirements,
the overall plan would be sent to the Financing Programing Division, under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, to determine if the resources
estimated for the sector during the period considered are consistent with
the financial requirements of the transport plan.  If there is need to
adjust the plan, OCPIT, with the sector agencies, would carry out the
necessary changes. Once the necessary adjustments have been made, the plan
would be submitted to the approval of the National Council for Economic
Coordination (CNCE), which is the highest authority over economic matters
and is chaired by the President. The first year of the approved plan would
basically define the budget. The preparation and annual updating of the
Sectoral Four-Year Plan, starting with the period 1983-1986, was confirmed
during negotiations. Once the four-year plan has been adjusted to take
into account the financial constraints, it would be sent to the Bank for
comments not later than July 31 of each year, i.e., five months before the
beginning of the period covered by each annual Four-Year Program. This was
also confirmed during negotiations.
2.04      The Ministerial Decree which defines the planning and programing
procedures also specifies that OCPIT would prepare, and carry out jointly
with each agency, a system to monitor the implementation of their Four-Year
Programs. At the time of negotiations, the Government confirmed that such
system would be sent for review to the Bank not later than October 31, 1982
and would start being utilized by December 31, 1982.  The implementation of
the new sectoral planning system would constitute the core of OCPIT's
activities.  In addition, OCPIT would carry out a review of pricing poli-
cies, especially road user charges, and would collect and publish sectoral
data. The work program of OCPIT for the period 1983-1984 is outlined in
Annex 2.  The work program for 1983-1984 was reviewed and agreed during
negotiations, at which time the Government confirmed that OCPIT's work
program would be updated periodically in consultation with the Bank.
C.   The Highway Program
2.05      MOPC would prepare, starting with the year 1983, and subsequently
update its Four-Year Highway Program within the newly established planning
and programing procedures. The Highway Program would comprise four sub-
programs as follows:
2/ General Directorate for Highways, General Directorate for
Transport, General Directorate for Road Committees, General
Directorate for Merchant Navy, General Directorate for Public
Works, National Administration for Waterways and Ports, State
Merchant Fleet and CAL Railway.



(a) The road maintenance and betterment subprogram would be
based on the system developed under the Fourth and Fifth
Highway Projects for programing and monitoring maintenance
and betterment activities, and would be the direct respon-
sibility of DGV's Maintenance Department (para 2.15).
(b) The pavement rehabilitation and strengthening subprogram
would be based on systematic evaluation of pavement condi-
tions and on sufficiency studies. Field studies, analyses
and formulation of the subprogram would be the responsibility
of DGV's Engineering Department. The targets for the 1983-
1986 period and related funding requirements are shown in
Table 4. These preliminary estimates would be reassessed
during the preparation of the 1983-1986 Highway Program and
annually thereafter.
(c) The rural roads subprogram would be prepared by the Feeder
Roads Unit of DGV. This Unit would also propose policies on
design standards and implementation methods for construction
and maintenance. Policies concerning the feeder roads to be
built within agricultural development areas are the respon-
sibility of the existing Feeder Roads Coordinating Committee.
(d) The subprogram for new construction of primary and secondary
roads would include the portfolio of projects which are at
the stage of execution or tendering and those which have/
would have final engineering studies during the relevant
period and have proved economically feasible.
Each subprogram would also include the studies (feasibility and engineer-
ing) necessary to prepare the next year's program. The proposed project
would assist in introducing pavement evaluation techniques (para 3.15).
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, starting from
1983, it would prepare Four-Year Highway Programs. Such programs would be
sent to the Bank for review and comments by July 31 of each year, i.e.,
five months before the beginning of the period covered by each annual
Four-Year Program. The Bank's review would focus on the balance between
subprograms and the priority of various components within each subprogram.
D.   Highway Financing
2.06      Highway expenditures increased substantially from an annual
average of US$4.5 million over the period 1970-1972 to US$41.9 million over
the period 1978-1980, an increase in real terms of about 170%. The last
period is basically influenced by the Bank-financed roads of the Fifth
Highway Project (para 1.13) and the Trans-Chaco road (Route 9, Section
III - 135 km). Present commitments average a level of annual expenditures
for the 1982-1984 period of about US$115.0 million. Of these, 44% are
funds provided by external loans while the res,i of the expenditures are
financed by funds from the general budget.



- 10 -
2.07      Until 1976, road infrastructure expenditures were lower than road
user charge revenues. Since then, and basically because of fixed nominal
value fuel taxes (established in 1963), the real value of revenues from
road user taxes decreased while highway expenditures increased. Revenues
from user charges covered 64% of highway expenditures in 1980. In
September 1981, the Government increased the taxes on vehicle fuels and, at
the same time, changed the tax base from fixed to ad valorem. This measure
would allow road user charge revenues to cover all current expenditures and
about 80% of capital expenditures; this is an adequate level given the
stage of development of Paraguay.
2.08      The transport sector is the main consumer of petroleum products,
which are totally imported and use up more than 40% of the value of ex-
ports. Gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel represent about 95% of the over-
all consumption. The structure of petroleum product consumption has
changed in the past 20 years.  Diesel fuel increased its share of national
consumption from about 15% to close to 60%. The trend to increase the
price of gasoline relative to that of diesel has helped to change the truck
fleet to more efficient diesel-powered engines.  The trend has also created
an incentive to increase the number of diesel-fueled cars and introduced a
distortion in their contribution to finance highway expenditures. This
matter will be studied by OCPIT as part of its 1983-1984 Program of activ-
ities (Annex 2). Current retail prices are about US$4.20 and US$3.30 per
gallon of premium and regular (blended with alcohol) gasoline respectively,
and US$1.75 per gallon of diesel oil.
E.   Staffing of DGV
2.09      Continuity and clear lines of authority have been recognized as
key factors in advances made by DGV in construction of primary roads and in
maintenance. DGV has failed, however, to acquire technical depth in spite
of a number of technical assistance programs over the past ten years.
Several studies for the upgrading of engineering practices and for the
development of DGV's information and management systems (road inventory,
survey of road construction materials, maintenance planning system, etc.)
have progressed slowly or have not fully taken hold. The single most
important condition for further progress in planning and management is to
increase the number of engineers and planners.
2.10      The three DGV Departments (Engineering, Maintenance and Equipment
and Materials) employ 33 engineers. Eleven engineers, five of whom grad-
uated two or less years ago, constitute the Engineering Department respon-
sible for supervision of all highway designs and construction contracts and
for the force account construction of 135 km of the Trans-Chaco (Route 9)
road. The Maintenance Department, which is also responsible for road bet-
terment and force account construction of feeder roads, besides maintaining
all the network, with five districts and 13 sections, has a total of 22
engineers, mostly inexperienced. Finally, the Equipment and Materials
Department has no technical staff of university level.
2.11      The Bank-financed Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects have contri-
buted to alleviate MOPC's shortage of staff. A Project Unit (para 1.13)
was created to assist in maintenance operations; the Unit was initially
staffed with foreign consultants who trained local counterparts. In order
to retain the qualified local staff in the Unit, DGV topped their sala-
ries. Another important step forward was taken when a Feeder Roads



- 11 -
Unit (UCR) was created in MOPC (para 1.15) to assist in meeting the
increasing demand for feeder roads. UCR started operations recently and,
when fully staffed, will include four foreign and six local engineers and
planners.   The latter will take over UCR's operations upon departure of
the consultants. Their remunerations, paid through UCR, are attractive
enough to retain them.
2.12      Under the Sixth Highway Project, it was also agreed that DGV
would prepare and adopt, by December 31, 1980, a plan of action, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for achieving adequate permanent staffing by June 30,
1982. The formulation of such a plan has been delayed and eventually has
become one of the focal points of project preparation.  The resulting
staffing schedule takes into account the present and anticipated work
program of each of DGV's Departments. Under the schedule, which is
detailed in Table 1, DGV would increase the number of its engineers in the
following way:
Situation in         To be Achieved
December 1981       by June 30, 1983
Engineering Department                     11                     20
Maintenance Department                     22                     30
Equipment and Materials Department          -                       2
Equipment Management Section                                       2
Total                             33                      54
The staffing requirements were identified on the assumption that major
civil works, periodic maintenance and road designs would continue to be
carried out by contract. The schedule does not include the staffing of
UCR, which is specified under the Sixth Highway Project. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that it would implement DGV's staffing
schedule. In addition, the Bank and the Government agreed to review
annually, not later than July 31, starting in 1984, DGV's staffing situa-
tion. Such review would include professional and para-professional staff
such as mechanics, equipment operators, drivers and foremen, as well as the
personnel management policies necessary to attract and retain suitable
staff.
2.13      DGV would recruit among:  (a) Paraguayan engineers, recently
graduated 3/ from local and neighboring countries' universities; and
(b) engineers, released progressively from the Itaipu hydroelectric project
as civil works are completed. The recently graduated professionals would
be trained on the job through a special technical assistance provided under
the project.  This functional training component would benefit about 40
engineers and would build up the necessary technical capability to carry
out DGV's tasks on a timely basis (paras 3.12 and 3.13).
F.   Staffing of OCPIT
2.14      The responsibilities of OCPIT in the framework of the new
transport sector planning procedures established by the Government
(paras 2.03 and 2.04) and the objectives of the present project have been
substantially expanded. OCPIT's staff, which at present comprises four
professionals and three university students working part time, is
3/   About 60 engineers are estimated to graduate every year.



- 12 -
considered insufficient to cope with the additional workload. The
Government agreed during negotiations to engage two additional local
professionals to strengthen OCPIT's working capacity and to have them in
place not later than January 1, 1983.  No problems are envisaged at this
time in hiring one engineer and one transport economist, both with at least
five years of experience in transport planning, as agreed during negotia-
tions.
2.15      The Government and the Bank also agreed to review annually, not
later than July 31, starting in 1984, OCPIT's staffing requirements and, as
in the case of DGV (para 2.12), the personnel management policies necessary
to attract and retain suitable staff.
2.16      The Sixth Highway Project provided for the financing of two
expatriate experts--one engineer and one economist (para 1.15)--to assist
in carrying out, together with the local staff, OCPIT's 1982 working
program. The proposed project would provide for additional technical
assistance (para 3.16).
G.   Management of Maintenance Operations
2.17      DGV's capacity to execute road maintenance (para 1.03) improved
over the last decade. The equipment fleet expanded considerably, provision
of spare parts and workshop tools improved, and yearly budgetary alloca-
tions grew in line with agreed estimates of requirements. The following
figures give a perspective of the effort made by MOPC for improving and
expanding maintenance operations: (a) the road network under maintenance
grew from about 6,600 km in 1976 to about 7,100 km in 1980; and (b) the
expenditures for these same years grew from ¢ 410.0 million to ¢ 878.0
million; in real terms, the average cost per km grew about 20%, from about
US$493 to about US$592.  DGV would have to continue to build up its mainte-
nance capacity in line with the expansion of the network. Further improve-
ment in efficiency should also be sought. The increase in the number of
engineers in its Maintenance Department (para 2.12), as well as improved
management of workshops and the equipment fleet, are key measures for
strengthening the system.
(i) Maintenance and Betterment Planning
2.18      The basis for planning road maintenance and betterment require-
ments was developed under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects. Consul-
tants Jorgensen-Tecnipar (US-Paraguay) prepared a 1979-1982 road mainte-
nance and betterment plan, district by district, based on an updated inven-
tory of the road network and on the equipment, labor and materials required
to carry out the plan; from these data, the budgetary allocations were
established. Most of the recommendations were implemented in the district
field offices, but the monitoring by DGV's central office was not carried
out because of the shortage of staff. The consultants' planning system
was reactivated during the preparation of the proposed project; on that
basis, a 1982-1986 maintenance plan with specific targets was prepared.
Yearly expenditures required for routine maintenance district by district,
resulting from the updated plan, are shown in Table 2. These expenditures,
broken down into labor, equipment and materials, have been calculated on



- 13 -
the basis of physical targets, taking into account the expected yearly
changes in the length and type of surface of the network (Table 3 and Map
IBRD 12831R), and should be adjusted systematically year by year according
to the maintenance program to be included in DGV's Four-Year Highway
Program (para 2.05). Targets for the betterment of unpaved roads are shown
in Table 4. During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed that
the latter would: (a) update and implement the Four-Year Maintenance and
Betterment subprogram; (b) carry out and monitor the resulting maintenance
and betterment activities; and (c) provide the yearly budgetary allocations
for maintenance and betterment specified in Tables 2 and 4 to meet the
minimum targets shown in Tables 3 and 4.
(ii) Equipment Management
2.19      DGV's fleet comprises about 900 units, of which about 50% are
devoted to maintenance operations; the remaining 50% are used for construc-
tion of a primary highway (Chaco), construction and betterment of feeder
roads and other activities. The Equipment and Materials Department is
basically the San Lorenzo Central Workshop (located about 13 km from
Asuncion). No systematic equipment management practices are followed, and
there is no updated information about equipment availability, utilization
or costs of operations and repairs. The project would provide the financ-
ing for a technical assistance program to improve management of the fleet
and workshops (paras 3.17 and 3.18).  In addition, the spare parts ware-
house, located within the San Lorenzo compound, needs to streamline its
control of stocks and the procedures for forecasting future needs. The
Fifth Highway Project provided for the purchase of a stock of spare parts
which is currently supplemented by local purchases financed from DGV's
operating budget. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would continue to provide funds for the timely supply of spare parts and
that DGV would implement a system for the control of spare parts not later
than July 31, 1983. The Government also confirmed that it would (a) not
later than June 30, 1983, appoint one senior mechanical engineer as head of
the San Lorenzo Central Workshop, one senior engineer as head of the
Equipment Management Section and two assistant engineers to the above-
mentioned mechanical and senior engineers; and (b) complete the staffing of
the San Lorenzo Workshop according to recommendations of the consultants on
workshop and equipment management, not later than July 31, 1983.
2.20      Under the Fifth Highway Project, MOPC undertook to create a fund
for the renewal of equipment in order to alleviate the serious problem
caused by previous practices of bulk purchases, every four or five years,
through external financing. A provision of US$1.3 million was included in
the 1981 MOPC budget for equipment renewal, but the funds have not been
used because DGV felt that the equipment at hand was sufficient for the
present needs. Some equipment units must now be replaced, and a replace-
ment program must be prepared. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it would continue to provide funds for renewal of road main-
tenance equipment, and that an equipment renewal program would be submitted
to the Bank not later than July 31 of each year, starting from 1983.



- 14 -
(iii) Axle Load Control
2.21      The Fifth Highway Project provided for the financing of a study
of the axle load control system, the purchase of scales and the civil works
for the construction of the weighing stations; the study was completed in
late 1980 by consultants Protos (Brazil). Orders for the purchase of the
scales have been placed, and bids for the construction of the weighing
stations have been invited. The vehicle weight control system will be
operating by late 1982.
H.   Accounting and Auditing
2.22      The Government is preparing, through a UNDP-financed project
(PAR/80/003), measures to strengthen and integrate its accounting system.
During 1982, MOPC would benefit from this technical assistance, which
should establish upgraded accounting procedures. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that, during 1982, MOPC would start implementing the
integrated accounting system on the basis of the ongoing UNDP project.
2.23      The field of auditing is also one in which there is scope for
improvement. Different administrative units within MOPC carry out some
occasional internal auditing activities. This function should be central-
ized within the existing General Directorate for Execution and Budget
Control (DGECP) and carried out as a permanent internal auditing activity
of the highway-related units 4/. Along with revised accounting and
internal auditing procedures, it would be necessary to engage independent
auditors to audit, annually, the expenditures of the proposed project as
well as those of ongoing projects. In addition, the independent auditors
would conduct an annual review of the operations of MOPC's Central Workshop
and the warehouse in San Lorenzo. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that, starting with the 1982 accounts, it would engage indepen-
dent auditors to audit the accounts of the ongoing Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects (Loans Nos. 1529-PA and 1736-PA) and of the proposed project and
the accounts of MOPC's Central Workshop and warehouse. The relevant audit
reports should be submitted to the Bank not later than April 30 of each
year, starting in 1983.
I.   Perspectives for the Highway Subsector
2.24      Up until about five years ago, Bank involvement in the highway
subsector was primarily devoted to investments in physical facilities.
Cities and towns had to be linked, and the ever-expanding road network was
associated with the development of agriculture, in particular in the
frontier zones where the need for increased investments in transportation
was the greatest. In fact, the national highway network grew from about
800 km in 1950 to about 8,000 km in 1976. Since the early 1970s, high
priority was assigned to maintenance, for which substantial assistance was
provided by the Bank.  In the years following the completion of the
proposed project roads, investments will continue to be needed to keep pace
with the fast development taking place in Paraguay's agriculture and to
4/   General Directorate for Highways, General Directorate for Transport,
General Directorate for Road Committees.



- 15 -
better integrate the country with its neighbors. However, Paraguay's
highway infrastructure and institutions remain behind those of countries
with similar levels of development. Main rural areas and some urban
centers are still isolated during the rainy season, thus affecting the
ability of farmers to send their products to markets or to have access to
essential services. About 86% of the highway network is unpaved, and over
80% has to be closed because of rain up to 100 days a year.
2.25      Following this first phase of physical expansion and maintenance,
the Government has started to address institutional issues, such as intra-
agency coordination, staffing of key Departments of MOPC and looking at
some overall subsector planning issues. The expansion of the road network
and the aging of the initial investments placed increased burdens on the
road maintenance capability of MOPC. The first task to be addressed, espe-
cially through the proposed project, is the continuation of the maintenance
effort: by the end of the project implementation period, the highway
subsector would have doubled in size in a time span of 15 years. The
emphasis has so far been on maintaining primary roads; there is now a need
to emphasize also the secondary and feeder road systems.  Information being
secured through a feeder roads survey will be essential to better organize
the feeder road maintenance efforts.  The recently established Feeder Roads
Unit in MOPC has just become operational as a planning agency, and, later
on, possibly five years from now, it will also be an executing unit.
Furthermore, after completing this operation, additional support to the
Unit will be needed in view of the importance of feeder roads to be
included in rural development projects under preparation.
2.26      The areas in which a special effort on the institutional side
will have to be achieved in the years to come, and for which the current
project establishes the key foundations, are the following:
First, on the maintenance side, following the improvement of the
efficiency in maintenance operations under the proposed project,
through upgraded management practices (programing, budgeting and
monitoring), the institutional capability would be built to
subsequently expand the maintenance effort to the secondary and
feeder road systems.
Second, the proposed project establishes an intra-sectoral
medium-term planning mechanism. It is expected that the system
would be fully operational by the mid-1980s; at that stage, the
highway subsector's planning capabilities should be sufficiently
well developed to prepare four-year programs based on coherent
criteria and methods for subproject selection and preparation, in
order to optimize intermodal investment efforts. The new plan-
ning procedure will necessitate assessing the resources available
for financing highway investments based on an evaluation of road
user charges, pricing and other fiscal policies. This comprehen-
sive approach is being started under the proposed project. At
the same time, DGV should explore the introduction of construc-
tion technologies better suited to the country's availability of
resources. A study of road construction materials and techniques
is under way, and the results are expected to be applied in the
subsector by the mid-1980s.



- 16 -
Third, the expansion of the Government's rural and agricultural
development programs will necessitate the consolidation of
mechanisms launched recently to ensure better coordination of the
actions of the agencies concerned with agriculture and,
therefore, the inclusion of road investments in a more explicit
manner in the design of these agriculturally oriented programs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Components
3.01      The objectives of the project are to:
(a) pursue construction and upgrading of primary roads;
(b) upgrade planning in the transport sector and strengthen DGV's
technical and managerial capabilities; and
(c) upgrade the efficiency of DGV's maintenance operations.
3.02      The project would consist of:
(a) civil works and related supervision services for:
- widening of a 64-km section of Route 2 between San Lorenzo
and Eusebio Ayala, including the construction of two
additional lanes along 30 km;
- upgrading, including paving of a 98-km section of Route 3,
between Tacuara and Santa Rosa; and
- upgrading, including paving of a 28-km section of Route 8,
between Villarrica and Numi.
(b) upgrading of sectoral planning and strengthening of DGV's and
OCPIT's technical and managerial capabilities through:
- implementation of an annual planning and programing system
for the transport sector;
- implementation of DGV's and OCPIT's staffing programs;
- technical assistance to OCPIT for transport planning; and
- training of DGV's engineers.
(c) improvement in the efficiency of DGV's maintenance operations
through:
- countrywide implementation of the maintenance management
system;



- 17 -
- technical assistance for management of the equipment fleet
and the workshops; and
- implementation of pavement evaluation metLods, including the
required equipment.
(i) Construction and Upgrading of Primary Roads (Map IBRD 12832R2)
(a) The San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala Road (64 kni)
3.03      The San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala road belongs to the East-West axis
and is the most important section of Route 2. It is also a connecting link
between the capital city of Asuncion and nine of the 14 departments of the
Eastern region and a section of the main traffic corridor between Paraguay
and Brazil. Since its paving in the mid-1960s, Route 2 has become the
backbone along which industrial and agro-industrial establishments have
developed.
3.04      Widening and improvement of the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala paved
road were identified by Government and Bank staff during 1979 as high
priority goals. San Lorenzo is a crossroads town, about 13 km from
Asuncion, connected to the Capital City by a four-lane carriageway
presently supporting traffic levels in excess of 10,000 vpd and serving
what is now an urbanized area.  MOPC is currently completing the extension
of an intra-urban avenue from the Asuncion City limits to San Lorenzo; this
additional four-lane access to San Lorenzo will alleviate the congestion on
the Asuncion-San Lorenzo route. Traffic on the 27-km section from San
Lorenzo to the San Bernardino junction ranges from 5,000 to 8,000 vpd. The
project would bring this section to four-lane standards by the construction
of a two-lane carriageway along the existing two-lane road, which would
also receive substantial rehabilitation, including an overlay. From the
San Bernardino junction to Eusebio Ayala (37 km), the existing two-lane
road would be improved; bypasses would be built around the towns of
Ypacarai and Eusebio Ayala. The topography of the area is flat except for
a mountainous section (Km 45-Km 49), where four lanes are projected along
2.5 km. This road serves general traffic. Its area already has a fairly
well developed network of secondary roads. No related complementary
investments are planned.
3.05      The feasibility study for this project road was carried out by
OCPIT and consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC (Argentina-Paraguay) in 1980 under
financing provided by Loan 1529-PA. The detailed engineering was prepared
by consultants ETEL-ASTEP-EIT (Brazil-Paraguay) with financing under the
First Preinvestment Project (Credit 587-PA). The design standards, shown
in Table 5, were reviewed and agreed. Design speed would be 100 kph, and
the pavement width would be 7.0 m for two lanes. The four-lane section
would have a total width of 14.7 m, with a median separator. Pavement
would consist of an asphaltic concrete carpet (6.5 cm) over a sub-base and
base of crushed stone (40 cm). Shoulders would be 2.50 m wide with surface
treatment over a layer of sub-base material. Preliminary estimates place
the average cost per kilometer (at February 1982 prices) at around
US$715,000 for the doubling of two to four lanes and US$430,000 for the
improvement of the existing two-lane road.



- 18 -
(b) The Tacuara-Santa Rosa Road (98 km)
3.06       The Tacuara-Santa Rosa road is a section of the only land
connection to northeast Paraguay and a main link with the Brazilian rail
and road systems. The existing earth road between Tacuara and Yby Yau
(about 200 km) was built by the Paraguayan Corps of Engineers between 1964
and 1967. Upgrading of the road connection between Asuncion and the
northeastern region has been pursued as a high priority objective since the
mid-1970s. The Fifth Highway Project provides for the paving of the
Coronel Oviedo-Tacuara Section (91 km), presently under construction and
scheduled for completion by late 1982 (para 1013). The northeastern region
is undergoing a rapid agricultural development, and the road would be
instrumental in fostering the integration of the region as well as
channeling an increasing volume of external trade with and through Brazil.
Traffic average is presently over 250 vpd, of which over 70% are heavy
vehicles. The present earth-surfaced road is closed because of rain for
about 100 days per year. Its upgrading would constitute a phase in the
staged upgrading of the transport corridor of northeast Paraguay. The
initial feasibility study was carried out in 1977, updated by OCPIT and
reviewed during appraisal (September 1981).  The subject road would serve
the area of the proposed Eje Norte Rural Development Project, which lies
entirely on both sides of the road north of Tacuara; feeder road
improvements related to this project would be included. DGV would be
responsible for their implementation through UCR and would, therefore, be
in a position to ensure necessary coordination, The Eje Norte Project was
appraised in September 1981 and is scheduled for Board presentation by May
1982.
3.07       Final engineering of the Tacuara-Santa Rosa road was prepared in
1980 by consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC (Argentina-Paraguay) with financing
provided by the First Preinvestment Project (Credit 587-PA). Two important
bridges--one over the Jejui-Guazu River with a total length of 350 m plus
two spillway bridges 35 m long each, and another over the Aguaray-Guazu
River with a total length of 175 in plus a spillway bridge 35 m long--were
designed in 1971 by consultants TECNIPAR (Paraguay). These designs were
updated as necessary by consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC in 1980. The alignment
of the project road follows the existing alignment, with the exception of
two short sections totaling about 5 km, where new alignments are necessary
to improve the access to the bridges. The topography is generally flat,
with few rolling sections. Since the road runs through low land areas that
are flooded during the rainy season, the grade is normally designed as
embankment. The project area has no quarry sites for sub-base, base and
surface materials.  Suitable materials would have to be hauLed from
distances of up to 150 kji; consequently, the cost of the pavement is high.
The consultants studied various alternatives of pavement design combining
materials and thickness to minimize the use of crushed stone.  Finally, a
0.40 m thick pavement (0.30 m of crushed stone for sub-base, 0.06 m of
asphalt concrete base and 0.04 m asphaltic concrete carpet) was adopted. A
detailed review of the engineering showed that, considering the traffic
level and the terrain conditions, the width and type of surfacing of the
shoulders could be reduced without affecting the basic characLeristics and
safety of the road. Standards would then be consistent with the standards
of the previous section presently under construction (para 1.13). Cost
savings of about 10% were obtained. The agreed design standards are shown



- 19 -
in Table 5. Design speed would be 100 kph, and the pavement width would be
6.20 m.  Shoulders would be 1.50 m wide and surface-treated.  Average cost
per kilometer, not including major bridges, is US$328,000 at February 1982
prices. The total cost of the bridges, with cumulative length of 630 m, is
estimated at about US$5,000,000.
(c) The Villarrica-Numi Road (28 km)
3.08       The Villarrica-Numi road is part of the Southern branch of the
North-South transport axis which, starting at Coronel Oviedo will, in the
long run, reach Coronel Bogado. The initial section, Coronel Oviedo-
Villarrica (43 km), was upgraded and paved under Loan 443-PA (para 1.10),
and the proposed project road will be its continuation to the south. The
road provides the connecting link between the departments of Guaira,
Paraguari and Caazapa and is important from the point of view of regional
development. The project road was identified in 1980, and its importance
was confirmed during the preparation of the Caazapa Area Development
Project, which was approved by the Board in late January 1982.   At
present, the road carries an average traffic of about 250 vpd, of which
about 60% are heavy vehicles. Since the road is earth-surfaced, it is
closed, during and after rainy periods, for an average of 75 days per
year. The project area is undergoing rapid development characterized by
the extension of cultivated acreage and the expansion of cash crops, mainly
soya and cotton. Complementary investments in feeder roads are included in
the Caazapa Project; DGV would be responsible for their construction
through its UCR and would, therefore, be in a position to effect necessary
coordination.
3.09      The design of the road was completed by consultants Berger (US)
in 1973 as part of the Bank-financed "Plan Triangulo" studies. The
topography crossed by the road is flat, and only minor realignments are
proposed; four minor bridges have to be constructed and four existing
bridges have to be widened. The design standards for the project road are
shown in Table 5. These were reviewed and agreed and are similar to those
adopted for the Coronel Oviedo-Tacuara road. The engineering and cost es-
timates were updated by DGV, and the economic feasibility was confirmed in
a report prepared by OCPIT (April 1981). Average cost per kilometer
(February 1982 prices) is US$280,000.
(d) Supervision of Civil Works
3.10      The civil works component of the proposed project would be super-
vised by selected consultants, most likely foreign-local joint ventures,
under terms and conditions of contract satisfactory to the Bank. This
follows satisfactory arrangements now in force under the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects and was confirmed during negotiations.
(ii) Strengthening of Sectoral Planning and DGV's Capacity
3.11      As indicated in Chapter II, the project would support specific
improvements in three basic aspects of highway management and planning,
i.e., (a) implementation of systematic and continuous planning for the
transport sector; (b) implementation of staffing programs for DGV and
OCPIT; and (c) training of staff in highway engineering. The specific



- 20 -
measures agreed, and the arrangements for monitoring by tlhe Bank, have been
presented in Chapter II. The implementation of the planning and programing
system, as well as the staffing of DGV and OCPIT, would be funded directly
under MOPC's current budget and consequently are not project expenditures.
Related technical assistance and equipment to be partly financed under the
project are presented hereafter.
(a) Training of DGV's Staff in Highway Engineering
3.12      The proposed project would include technical assistance to
build up, through a functional training program, the capacity of DGV's
engineers. Local engineering firms would be invited by DGV to send
participants to the training; they would do so on a cost-sharing basis.
This component would be carried out in Paraguay during a period of about 18
months, starting in June 1983, after the planned staffing of DGV has been
completed (para 2.12). All courses would have a strong practical
component. Annex 3 provides an outline of the terms of reference which
have been agreed with DGV and were confirmed during negotiations. Also,
during negotiations, the Government confirmed that specialized consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be retained, not later than June 30, 1983,
to prepare and carry out the training program.
3.13      It is anticipated that about 40 of DGV's engineers would
participate in the program. Emphasis would be on practical and operational
aspects of their tasks, including:
-   maintenance management system;
-   pavement evaluation and strengthening;
-   feeder roads betterment;
-   equipment management; and
-   subsectoral planning and programing.
The training material would be prepared initially and would be revised as
necessary, following the response received during the course, with a view
to constitute a reference manual on DGV's modus operandi. The outline of
the curriculae and the schedule of sessions, as well as their format, would
be laid out and reviewed two months after the initiation of the services of
the consultants. The program would be coordinated, as appropriate, with
other less ambitious training activities planned by DGV, in particular
audio visual training for highway maintenance staff, visits to ongoing
highway works in Paraguay and/or neighboring countries and attending
international conferences and seminars on specific highway matters.
(b) Pavement Evaluation
3.14      Although Paraguay is still in the process of building up its
primary network, it has about 1,500 km of paved roads, some of which are
more than ten years old and have experienced annual traffic growth consis-
tently above 8%. Pavement strengthening and, in some instances, rehabili-
tation are becoming important components of DGV's program. The project



- 21 -
would support the establishment, within DGV, of a pavement evaluation group
to conduct a systematic survey of the existing paved network over the three
years 1983 to 1985. At the time of negotiations, the Government confirmed
that DGV would prepare, and furnish to the Bank, by not later than July 31,
1983, a tentative list of roads to be surveyed annually over the 1983-1985
period for possible strengthening or rehabilitation.
3.15       The project would provide the necessary specialized equipment,
the vehicles and the related technical assistance. The tentative list of
equipment is shown in Table 6. This equipment would be procured in early
1983. The technical assistance would be provided by the pavement special-
ists who would participate in the training program for DGV's engineers
(para 3.12 and Annex 3). At the time of negotiations, the Government
confirmed that, no later than June 30, 1983, DGV would establish, within
its Engineering Department, a Pavement Evaluation Group to conduct a condi-
tion survey of existing pavement and to prepare and update the pavement
strengthening and rehabilitation component of DGV's Four-Year Program.
(c) Technical Assistance to OCPIT for Transport Planning
3.16       The proposed project places upon OCPIT the principal responsi-
bility for establishing a transport sector planning system, its correspond-
ing financing program and the procedures by which the implementation of
such plans and programs would be monitored. To enable OCPIT to fulfill its
new responsibilities effectively and to carry out the agreed program of
activities (Annex 2), further technical assistance in specialized fields is
required. The project would provide for the financing of such technical
assistance. One civil engineer and one economist would be engaged for a
period of 18 months. During negotiations, the Government agreed that these
specialists would be in place not later than June 30, 1983, and that they
would be recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(iii) Improvement of the Efficiency of Maintenance Operations
3.17       This project component would complement and pursue ongoing
actions to build up maintenance. Specifically, the improvement of manage-
ment and operations of the San Lorenzo Central Workshop, the Districts'
Workshops and DGV's equipment fleet would be the object of this project
component. The Central Workshop has several sections (light equipment,
heavy equipment, electricity, body shop, signalization, etc.) which,
because of the lack of specialized management, are inefficient and uncoor-
dinated; neither does any coordination exist with the Districts' work-
shops. In addition, the spare parts warehouse, also located within the San
Lorenzo compound, does not function properly. The control of spare parts
is loose, and no policy is followed regarding maximum and minimum stock
levels of fast-moving parts. Finally, a system should be established to
monitor and improve equipment availability and utilization and to program
the timely replacement/expansion of the fleet. This component would
complement the measures mentioned in paragraphs 2.19 and 2.20 concerning
the staffing of the workshop, the control of spare parts and the renewal of
equipment.
3.18       The proposed project includes the financing of individual
experts: two for workshop management and two for equipment management for
periods of up to 24 months from about December 1982 to the end of 1984.



- 22 -
The workshop specialists would also study the type of repair works that
could be carried out more efficiently through contracts with dealers estab-
lished in Paraguay. Additionally, the project would provide for vehicles
required to support the experts and their counterpart staff. During nego-
tiations, agreement was reached for engaging, not later than December 31,
1982, specialized experts, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the
management of the workshops, particularly the San Lorenzo Central Workshop,
and the maintenance equipment fleet. Related terms of reference are out-
lined in Annex 4 and were confirmed at the time of negotiations.
B.   Summary of Economic Evaluation
3.19      The weighted average economic rate of return for the proposed
road upgrading, which accounts for about 98% of project costs, is 20.5%.
Each of the three road sections shows satisfactory economic returns and
first year benefits clearly above the opportunity cost of capital, estim-
ated at about 12%. The following table summarizes the results of the
economic analysis. The quantified benefits consist mostly of savings in
vehicle operating costs. Time savings are significant only for the San
Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala road; they are of marginal relevance for the
Tacuara-Santa Rosa and Villarrica-Numi roads. Generated traffic has been
estimated conservatively and amounts to about 10% of normal traffic for the
two latter roads.
San Lorenzo-   Tacuara-    Villarrica-
Concept                  Eusebio Ayala  Santa Rosa         Numi
ER with Time Savings          27.5%          20.6%         17.1%
ER without Time Savings       23.0%          19.9%         16.4%
First Year Benefits        14.4%          13.4%         12.8%
Switching Value: Costs       232.3%          96.8%         41.5%
Switching Value: Benefits  -69.9%           -49.2%        -29.3%
The sensitivity analysis suggests that the risk of unsatisfactory return is
very low. The benefits would, given the competitive nature of the trucking
industry, be passed on to users. Agricultural producers served by the
roads would eventually reap most of the benefits since the main cash crops
are marketed very broadly and are mostly exported. Annex 5 shows details
of the economic evaluation.
C.   Cost Estimates
3.20      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$124.0 million,
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$83.0 million (67%) and a
local component of US$41.0 million (33%), which would be financed by the
Government. The project costs are shown on the following page. The cost
estimates for civil works of the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala, Tacuara-Santa
Rosa and Villarrica-Numi roads are based on completed final engineering.
The cost of consultant services for supervision of construction is based on
recently awarded contracts for similar services provided by joint ventures
of Paraguayan and foreign firms. The cost of the technical assistance com-
ponent has been estimated on the basis of average salaries and expenditures
of foreign experts and the purchase of vehicles and pavement evaluation
equipment on the basis of current market values. The front-end fee has
been included as a foreign exchange project cost.



- 23 -
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Estimated
Foreign
Exchange
Items                                              Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign  Total   Component
(Guaranies Millions)               (US$ Millions)             %
A.   Construction and Upgrading of Primary Roads
Civil works for:
(i)  San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala                     1.336      3.112      4.448      10.6      24.7      35.3       70
(ii)  Tacuara-Santa Rosa                            1.405      3,278      4.683      11.2      26.0      37.2       70
(iii)  Villarrica-Numi                                 293        684        977       2.3       5.5       7.8       70
(iv)  Supervision of Construction                     302        704      1.006       2.4       5.6       8.0       70
Sub Total       3.336      7.778    11.114       26.5      61.8      88.3
B.   Technical Assistance
(i)  Management of the Equip.Fleet and Workshops  14             54         68       0.1       0.4       0.5       80
(ii)  Purchase of Vehicles, Office and                  -         14         14         -       0.1       0.1     100
Pavement Evaluation Equipment
(iii)  Training of Engineers                            14         40         54       0.1       0.3       0.4       75
(iv)  Assistance to OCPIT                               -         40         40         -       0.3       0.3      100
Sub Total          28        148        176       0.2       1.1       1.3
Base Cost (At Feb. 1982 prices)                    3.364      7.926    11.290       26.7      62.9      89.6
C.   Contingencies
(i)  Physical  (10% of A)                            333        778      1.111       2.7       6.3       9.0
(ii)  Price Escalation                              1.461      1.651      3.112      11.6      13.1      24.7
Sub Total       1.794      2.429      4.223      14.3      19.4      33.7
Total       5.158    10.355    15.513        41.0      82.3    123.3
D.   Front End Fee                                                                           -       0.7       0.71/
Grand Total                                        41.0      83.0    124.0        67
1! The precise amount of the Front End Fee is US$679.803
Calendar Years    Local    Foreign
1982           18.0%       8.5%
1983           15.0%       7.5%
1984           13.0%       7.5%
1985           12.0%       7.5%
1986-87        12.0%       6.0%
Source: Consultant Reports and Mission's Estimates
April 1982



- 24 -
3.21       The foreign exchange base cost component for civil works has been
estimated by consultants at 70% in line with the estimates used for recent
Bank projects.  For the supervision of construction, the foreign exchange
base cost component was also estimated at about 70%, assuming a substantial
foreign participation. The cost per man/month of consultant services is
estimated to range between US$2,500 and US$8,000 for technicians of differ-
ent grades among Paraguayans and foreigners, with an average of about
US$4,000 per man/month. The total number of man/months for technical
assistance services is 172.
3.22      A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to cover possi-
ble increases in physical quantities for civil works. The contingency for
escalation of the foreign component amounts to 19% on the basis of assump-
tions shown at the bottom of the cost table. The contingency for variation
of local prices amounts to 40% over the implementation period, taking into
account the assumptions on domestic inflation noted also at the bottom of
the cost table. As a result, the foreign exchange component amounts to 67%
of the total cost.
D.   Financing
3.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$46.0 million amounts to 37% of the
total cost, or about 55% of the total foreign exchange component. The
Government would finance the local costs, totaling US$41 million (about
33%) and is also seeking co-financing for the additional US$37.0 million
required to complement the financing of the foreign exchange component.
The prospects for obtaining co-financing from commercial banks are favor-
able and, in order not to delay project implementation on account of secur-
ing such additional financing, it was found justified to proceed with the
proposed Bank loan before the entire financing has been secured. It was
also found important to arrange the Bank financing in a manner to encourage
the early completion of the co-financing plan. To achieve this goal, the
project (excluding the front-end fee) was divided into two parts, as
follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Foreign Exchange  Local
Component       Costs  Total
Part A
(i) San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala (60 km)           24.7          10.6   35.3
(ii) Villarrica-Numi (28 km)                      5.5           2.3    7.8
30.2          12.9   43.1
(iii) Supervision of Construction                  3.0           1.3    4.3
(iv) Technical Assistance                         1.1           0.2    1.3
Base Cost                                  34.3           14.4   48.7
Contingencies: physical                      3.3           1.4    4.7
price                       5.7           5.2   10.9
Total Part A               43.3          21.0   64.3
Part B
(i) Tacuara-Santa Rosa (98 km)                  26.0          11.2   37.2
(ii) Supervision of Construction                  2.6           1.1    3.7
Base Cost                                  28.6           12.3   40.9
Contingencies: physical                      2.9           1.2    4.1
price                       7.5           6.5   14.0
Total Part B               39.0          20.0   59.0



- 25 -
A total of US$82.3 million would be needed to finance the foreign exchange
components of Parts A and B. Of the US$45.3 million provided by the Bank
loan, US$35.3 million would be initially allocated to Part A and US$10
million to Part B. If, as it is reasonable to expect, the co-financing is
confirmed, the financing plan for the whole project (excluding the front-
end fee) would be: Bank, US$45.3 million, i.e, 37%; co-financing, US$37.0
million, i.e., 30%; and Government, US$41.0 million equivalent, i.e., 33%.
3.24       In the unlikely event that co-financing does not materialize, the
Government would have to provide US$8.0 million necessary to meet the
financing requirements of Part A (in addition to the US$21.0 million equiv-
alent that it would provide for the local cost component of Part A). In
that case, the Bank would, on the whole, contribute US$35.3 million, i.e.,
55Z of the total cost of Part A, and the Government financing would be
US$29 million equivalent, i.e., 45%.
3.25       By June 30, 1983 at the latest, the Government and the Bank would
appraise the result of the effort to obtain co-financing and would review
the proposed financing arrangement.  Should the Government not be able to
confirm that sufficient co-financing has been secured, the Government and
the Bank would decide whether (a) to reduce the scope of the project to
Part A and thus the Bank might cancel, from loan funds, the US$10.0 million
allocated to Part B; or (b) to finance, with the Government's own
resources, both the local and the remaining foreign exchange component of
the entire project. The disbursement percentages would be adjusted to
ensure continued Bank participation through project completion and to
accommodate the requirements of co-financiers for early disbursement of
their share. The above approach was confirmed during negotiations.
E.   Disbursement
3.26      Until the co-financing plan has been finalized (i.e, until
June 30, 1983 at the latest), disbursements under the Bank loan would be
allowed only for Part A of the project; about 5% of loan funds allocated to
this part are expected to be disbursed during that period. Disbursements
for Part B would be made only after the finalization of the financing plan.
3.27      Disbursement for Part A of the project would be as follows:
Item                      % of Expenditures to be Financed
(i)  Civil Works                       100% of foreign expenditures and
20% of local expenditures
(ii) Supervision of Construction    100% of foreign expenditures and
30% of local expenditures
(iii) Technical Assistance and         100% of foreign expenditures and
Training                        10% of local expenditures
(iv)  Purchase of Vehicles, Office
Equipment and Pavement
Evaluation Equipment
(a) Imported                     100% of foreign expenditures
(b) Locally Procured             90%



- 26 -
Disbursements for civil works and supervision of construction under Parts A
and B would be revised as appropriate after the review and confirmation of
the financing plan.  The combined contribution of the Bank and the co-
financiers would represent 67% of the total project cost.
3.28      All disbursements of the Bank loan would be made against normal
documentation. Table 7 summarizes the cumulative disbursement schedules
foreseen for both Bank and co-financier funds. The total project disburse-
ment profile differs from the regional subsector profile in the length of
the disbursement period (one and a half years). This departure is
justified on two grounds: first, large and well experienced foreign firms
are expected to assume prime responsibility of the civil works, contrib-
uting to timely execution and a shorter disbursement profile. Second,
experience with disbursements for recently completed and ongoing highway
projects in Paraguay supports shorter profiles.
F.   Implementation, Procurement and Monitoring
3.29      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPC
through DGV and OCPIT. Contracts for civil works would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (March 1977). Contractors would be prequalif-
ied, and civil works would be carried out on the basis of unit price con-
tracts. The San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala and Tacuara-Santa Rosa roads would
be subdivided into two bidding sections each, and the Villarrica-Numi road
would constitute one bidding section only.  Because of the relatively large
size of the individual lots (between US$7.8 and 18.0 million), it is likely
that the contracts would be awarded to foreign firms, with local firms par-
ticipating in joint ventures or as subcontractors. Recent experiences have
shown that the size of the proposed lots is attractive to foreign con-
tractors (especially from Argentina, Brazil and Spain).
3.30      Contracts with an estimated cost of more than US$50,000 would be
procured through ICB following the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (March
1977). Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, office and pavement evalua-
tion equipment with an estimated cost below US$50,000 would be advertised
locally in accordance with DGV's regulations, which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Contracts for the purchase of goods amounting to US$50,000 or less
would be reviewed ex-post by the Bank, provided, however, that the aggre-
gate of the contracts procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
US$120,000.
3.31      Consultants for supervision of construction and technical assis-
tance would be selected and engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants (August 1981).
3.32      The bidding documents for civil works have been, or are being,
prepared by consultants.  These documents, as well as the bidding documents
and specifications for the equipment purchases, would have to be acceptable
to the Bank. The tendering and contracting procedures were discussed and
agreed during negotiations.
3.33      The implementation of the proposed project would be carried out
in two stages (Part A and Part B), as described in paragraph 3.23. Pre-
qualifications and tendering for Part A would be carried out in 1982 and



- 27 -
early 1983. Civil works for Part A are expected to start in early 1983.
Tendering for Part B is tentatively scheduled to take place in mid-1983,
with civil works starting by the end of the year. The overall project
(including Part B) is expected to be completed about four and a half years
after signature, i.e., by early 1987. No major difficulties are expected
for the construction works since the topography of the areas crossed by the
three roads is smooth and all road sections are easily accessible. The two
major bridges along the northern section of the Tacuara-Santa Rosa road are
the only works that would require specialized staff and equipment
(para 3.07).  Technical assistance services and training are scheduled over
the two-year period from the end of 1982 to the end of 1984.  The project
implementation schedule (Table 8) was reviewed and confirmed during nego-
tiations. The closing date would be December 31, 1987.
3.34      Reports on the various project components would be prepared by
consultants. MOPC would prepare quarterly consolidated reports summarizing
the progress of all project components and the financial situation of the
project. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that reports would
be sent to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the quarter
starting with the first quarter of 1983.
3.35      Monitoring of project implementation would be carried out through
normal supervision and would cover, besides the progress of civil works,
the following indicators:
(a) the implementation of the sectoral planning and programing
system through annual review and exchange of views in July of
each year starting 1982;
(b) DGV's Four-Year Highway Program to be the object of annual
review and exchange of views in July of each year starting
1982;
(c) the utilization and availability of the equipment fleet and
the procurement, delivery and availability of spare parts;
(d) the staffing situation of DGV, including the number of
engineers and para-professional personnel at the end of each
semester and the number of engineers trained; and
(e) the staffing situation of OCPIT.
All of these subject indicators have been defined and are shown in
Annex 6. The monitoring arrangements were reviewed and confirmed during
negotiations.
G.   Risk
3.36      The road construction component of the project does not present
special risk.  The engineering is ready, and final cost estimates are
available. The assumptions underlying the economic evaluation are conserv-
ative, especially concerning benefits due to generated traffic. The
arrangements proposed for the finalization of the financing plan, while
offering flexibility, would give the Bank the necessary discretion to
adjust the project scope in case co-financing does not materialize.  The



- 28 -
annual review of the highway program would also provide an opportunity to
assess overall funding requirements (in particular, those related to the
ongoing Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects) and to compare them with the
level of resources available to MOPC. The relatively good performance of
Paraguay in the implementation of similar components of previous projects
suggests that the risks attached to the civil works components are low.
3.37      A higher element of risk is attached to the institution-building
objectives of the project. The key problem of adding more engineers to DGV
and planners to OCPIT has been addressed, and the undertakings from the
Government are clearly spelled out and their timing specified. The
increase in the number of staff would take place in the early phase of the
project. The number and qualifications of the additional staff have been
discussed thoroughly at all levels on several occasions. The risk
affecting this undertaking has been reduced as much as possible, but it is
still substantial.
3.38      While the recent Ministerial Decree (Annex 1) establishes the
proper framework for planning, the development and consolidation of the
system would take several years. Inadequate coordination between agencies
and lack of followup are the main potential sources of difficulties and
delays which would have to be dealt with during supervision.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) submission to the Bank, every six months, of the results of
the traffic counting program, starting from December 31, 1982
(para 1.14);
(b) preparation and annual updating of Sectoral Four-Year Plans;
such plans would be sent to the Bank for comments no later
than July 31 of each year (para 2.03);
(c) sending to the Bank for review, not later than October 31,
1982, the OCPIT/Agencies monitoring system for the Sectoral
Four-Year Plans and starting to utilize it by December 31,
1982 (para 2.04);
(d) scope of the 1983-1984 program of activities of OCPIT, and
that subsequent programs would be updated periodically in
consultation with the Bank (para 2.04);
(e) preparation and subsequent updating of Four-Year
Highway Programs starting from 1983; such programs
would be sent to the Bank for review by July 31 of each
year previous to the period covered by each annual
Four-Year Program (para 2.05);



- 29 -
(f) DGV's and OCPIT's staffing schedule and its implementation;
annual review, not later than July 31, starting in 1984, of
DGV's and OCPIT's staffing situation (paras 2.12 and 2.15);
(g) engaging of two additional local professionals to strengthen
OCPIT's working capacity and having them in place not later
than January 1, 1983 (para 2.14);
(h) updating and implementing the Four-Year Maintenance and
Betterment Subprogram; carrying out and monitoring the
resulting maintenance and betterment activities; and pro-
viding the yearly budgetary allocations for maintenance and
betterment to meet specified minimum targets (para 2.18);
(i) continuing to provide funds for timely supply of spare parts
and implementing, not later than July 31, 1983, a system for
the control of such parts (para 2.19);
(j) staffing the San Lorenzo Workshop according to recom-
mendations of consultants not later than July 31, 1983
(para 2.19);
(k) continuing to provide funds for renewal of road maintenance
equipment and submitting to the Bank, not later than July 31
each year, starting from 1983, an equipment renewal program
(para 2.20);
(1) start, in 1982, of the implementation of the UNDP-financed
integrated accounting system (para 2.22);
(m) engaging of independent auditors to audit the 1982 Central
Workshop and warehouse accounts and those of the ongoing and
proposed projects; the audit reports to be submitted to the
Bank not later than April 30 of each year, starting in 1983
(para 2.23);
(n) engaging of supervisory consultants under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.10);
(o) engaging, not later than June 30, 1983, of consultants to
carry out the training program for engineers, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.12);
(p) preparation of a tentative list of roads to be surveyed
annually for possible rehabilitation and/or strengthening by
not later than July 31, 1983 (para 3.14); and that, not later
than June 30, 1983, DGV would establish, within its
Engineering Department, a Pavement Evaluation Group
(para 3.15);
(q) engaging of one civil engineer and one economist, for a
period of 18 months, to assist OCPIT; these specialists
to be in place not later than June 30, 1983, and to be
recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.16);



- 30 -
(r) engaging, not later than December 31, 1982, specialized
experts to assist in workshop and equipment management in
accordance with confirmed terms of reference (para 3.18);
(s) expediting the search for co-financing and keeping the
Bank informed of the progress achieved; reviewing the
proposed arrangement with the Bank by June 30, 1983. If
co-financing does uot materialize, the Government would
provide for the financing of local costs (US$21.0 million)
for Part A, plus US$8.0 million to complete the foreign
exchange component of such part; if the Government and the
Bank decide to reduce the scope of the project to Part A,
then the Bank may cancel, from loan funds, the US$10.0 mil-
lion allocated to Part B (paras 3.24 and 3.25);
(t) bidding and contracting procedures (paras 3.29 to 3.32);
(u) project implementation schedule (para 3.33) and arrangements
for monitoring of project implementation (para 3.35); and
(v) preparation of quarterly consolidated reports of all project
components (para 3.34).
4.02      Disbursements for Part B of the project would be contingent upon
the Government's finalization of the Financing Plan.
4.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$46.0 million equivalent. The terms would be 17 years with
a four-year period of grace.
April 19, 1982



- 31 -                          TABLE 1
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staffing Schedule
Total       Professional
Date                           Number         Experience
(a) For DGV's Engineering Department
Present                               11
June 30, 1983                         20      8 with at least 5
years
(b) For DGV's Maintenance Department
Present                               22
June 30, 1983                         30    10 with at least 5
years
(c) For DGV's Equipment and MIaterials
Department
Present                                -
June 30, 1983                          2      1 with at least 5
years and 1 with
at least 2 years
(d) For DGV's Equipment Management
Section
Present                                -
June 30, 1983                          2      1 with at least 5
years and 1 with
at least 2 years
(e) For OCPIT
Present                                4
January 1, 1983                        6      4 with at least 5
years and 2 with
at least 2 years
Source:  DGV, OCPIT and Mission's Estimates
April 1982



- 32 -
TA3LE 2
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Projected Routine Maintenance Expenditures (1982-1986)
(Million of Guaranies; December, 1981 Values)
Equipment                              Total
Without      With                    Without      With
Year       Labor       Amort.      Amort.    Materials    Amort.        Amort.
District 1
1982       110.7       117.9       270.8        14.3         242.9      395.8
1983       134.1       134.3       303.1        15.2         283.6      452.4
1984       139.8       142.0       320.0        15.5         297.3      475.3
1985       139.9       145.9       332.1        15.9         301.7      487.9
1986       150.6       158.7       363.0        17.6         326.9      531.2
District 2
1982        62.8        85.4       202.5         9.5         157.7      274.8
1983        65.2        88.7       210.4         9.9         163.8      285.5
1984        64.5        83.7       195.5         9.1         157.3      269.1
1985        68.3        88.7       207.8         9.6         166.6      285.7
1986        71.6        93.0       218.2        10.1         174.7      299.9
District 3
1982        96.8       112.8       270.6        12.4         222.0      379.8
1983        99.8       116.7       280.4        12.7         229.2      392.9
1984       103..4      123.5       296.2        13.5         240.4      413.1
1985       114.5       136.8       328.7        14.6         265.9      457.8
1986       126.3       152.4       367.6        16.6         295.3      510.5
District 4
1982        54.2        71.0       172.1         6.8         132.0      233.1
1983        57.6        75.2       182.2         7.2         140.0      247.0
1984        58.9        78.2       189.6         7.5         144.6      256.0
1985        68.3        85.4       204.2         8.0         161.7      280.5
1986        71.6        89.8       215.1         8.4         169.8      295.1
District 5
1982        22.4         38.7       61.2         8.0          69.1       91.6
1983        25.1        42.4        66.9        10.6          78.1      102.6
1984        33.6        44.4        69.6        12.5          90.5      115.7
1985        35.7        47.4        74.4        16.1          99.2      126.2
1986        38.3         51.1       80.4        17.1         106.5      135.8
Asphalt Plant
1982        11.9        11.2        31.0        35.3          58.4       78.2
1983        19.2        21.0        58.5        59.3          99.5      137.0
1984        25.1        28.8        75.3        77.8         131.7      178.2
1985        25.3        30.0        78.0        80.0         135.3      183.3
1986        26.3        30.8        79.6        83.0         140.1      188.9
Total
1982       358.8       437.0   1.008.2          86.3         882.1    1,453.3
1983       401.0       478.3   1.101.5         114.9         994.2   1,617.4
1984       425.3       500.6   1.146.2         135.9      1,061.8   1,707.4
1985       452.0       534.2   1.225.2         144.2      1,130.4   1,821.4
1986       484.7       575.8   1.323.9         152.8      1,213.3   1,961.4
Source:  DGV
January  1982



PARAGUAY
SVFFNT11 HIGHWAY PROJECT
Projected Highiway Network to be Routinely Maintained (1982-1986)
(kilometers)
Primary                       Secondary                      Tertiary                         Total
Year     District    Paved   Gravel   Farth         Paved   Gravel   Earth        Paved    Gravel   Earth        Paved   Gravel    Farth   Total
1982       I           298       74         30       162       132       229        108      274     1.005         568      480      1.264    2.312
IT          -         -        136         -        -        458         -        -         645         -         -      1.239    1.239
III        293             -         -              -        217                  -      1.721         293        -      1.938   2.231
-       106       164         -       110        106        -         77       442          -       293        712    1.005
V          300        -        315         -        -          -         -         -         -          300       -         315      615
Total       891       180       645        162      242     1.010        108       351     3.813      1.161       773     5.468   7.402
1983       1           557       77         31       191       137       238        116      285     1.045         864      499      1.314    2.677
IT          -         -        141         -        -        476         -        -         671         -         -      1.288   1.283
TIT        293        -         -          -        -        226         -        -      1.789         293        -      2.015   2.303
IV          -        110       172         -       125        110        -        80        472         -        315       754   1.069
v          300        -        350         -        -          -         -         -         -          300       -        350       650
Total     1.150       187       694        191      262     1.050        116       365     3.977      1.457       814     5.721    7.992
1984       T           557       80         32       275       142       248        147      296     1.087         979      518      1.367    2.864
II          98       -          56         -        -        495         -        -         698         98        -      1.249   1.347
tIn        293       -          -          -        50       235         -        -      1.860         293        50     2.095   2.438
TV          -       114        179        -        130       114         -        84        491         -        328       784   1.112
V          500        -        406         -        -          -         -        -          -          500       -        406       90f
Total     1.448       194       673        275      322     1.092        147       380     4.146      1.870       896     5.901   8.667
1985       J           493       58         33       275       148       258        147      308     1.230         915      514      1.521    2.950
TI          98        -         58         -        -        515         -        -         766         98        -      1.339   1.437
ITT        293        -         -          50       52       244         -        -      2.084         343        52     2.328    2.723
IV         102      119        183         -       135       118         -        88        510        102       342       811    1.255
V          500        -        440         -        -          -         -        -          -          500       -        440       940
Total     1.486       177       714        325      335     1.135        147       396    4.590       1.958       908     6.439   9.305    H
1986       1           493       60         35       275      154        269       195       317     1.420         963      531     1.724    3.218    r
II          98        -         60         -        -        535         -        -         818         98        -      1.413    1.511    w
ITI        293        -         -          50       56       254         -        -      2.384         343        56     2.638    3.037
IV         102       123       200        -        140       122         -        92        530        102       355       852    1.309
V          500        -        470         -        -          -         -        -          -          500       -        470       970
'rotal    1.486       183       765        325      350     1.180        195       409     5.152      2.006       942     7.097  10.045
Source:   DGV
IOuarv  1982



PARAGUAY
SEVENTH IIIGHWAY PROJECT
Betterment and Rehabilitation Program (1982-1986)
(in millions of December 1981 Guaranies)
1982                  1983                 1984                  1985                  1986
Item             Unit    Quantity   Value a/ Quantity   Value al  Quantity   Value a/ Quantity   Value al Quantity   Value a/
A. Betterment of Unpaved Roads
Embankment         m3       450,000   145,3        411,000  132,6        440,000   141.6       466,000   150,2       500,000   161,2
Production and
Installation
of Culverts      m          2,200    61,6          2,000   56,2          2,140    60,0         2,275    63,7         2,440    68,4
Gravel            km             180    46,2            164   42,2            175    45,1           185    47,9          200    51,4
Wood Bridges       m             180    45,0            164   41,1            175    43,9           185    46,6           200    50,0
Asphalt Carpet   km               60   138,0             55  126,0             58   134,6            62   142,9            66   153,4
Sub-total (A)                          436,1                 398,1                  425,2                 451,3                 484,4    w
B. Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
Asphalt Overlay  km               45   135,0             74  222,0             50   150,0            20     60,0           20    60,0
Resealing         km             -       -               -     -              -       -             -        -            61    61,0
Sub-total (B)                     45   135,0             74  222,0             50   150,0           20      60,0          81   121,0
Total (A + B)                          571,1                 620,1                  575,2                  511,3                605,4
Source:  DGV                                                                                                                                   >
January  1982                                                                                                                                  >



- 35 -              TABLE 5
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roads
R O A D S
Tacuara   Villarrica   San Lorenzo
Santa Rosa    Numi      Eusebio Ayala
Design Speed        kph    100          80             100
Minimum Radius of   m      400         240             400
Curvature
Maximum Grade        %        6          6                6
Platform Width       m    10.70       9.00            12.00 (two lanes)
19.70 (four lanes)
Surface Width        m     6.20       6.00             7.00 (two lanes)
14.70 (four lanes)
Shoulders            m     1.50       1.50             2.50
Stopping Sight       m     160         116              160
Distance
Surface                 Asphaltic   Surface         Asphaltic
Concrete   Treatment       Concrete
Source: DGV and Consultant Reports
January 1982



- 36 -
TABLE 6
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative List of Equipment Purchases
Unit
Items                                        Price          Total
------ US$-
a) 4 Vehicles for the experts to be
hired for the workshop and e-
quipment management                    10,000         40,000
b) 3 Vehicles for the staff training
program                                10,000         30,000
c) 2 Benkelman Beams                           500          1,000
d) 1 Roughnessmeter                          8,000          8,000
e) 1 Vehicle for the roughnessmeter         15,000         15,000
f)   Office and laboratory equipment        global          6,000
Total                         100,000
Source: Mission's Estimates
January 1982



PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursement
(US$ million)
-----------------------With Cofinancing--------------------------- ----------Without Cofinancing -----
Techn. Assist.    Civil Works + Supervision Parts A and B    Total         Civil Works + Supervision Part A
and Equipment                                                                                                    Total
Period         IBRD              IBRD          COFIN       Subtotal      IBRD-COFIN               IBRD                      IBRD
June 83          0.4                0.4           -           0.4            o,8                    0.3                      0.7
Dec. 83          0.7                0.4           2.5         2.9            .6                     1.8                      2.5
June 84          1.0                0.4           9.5         9.9           1n.n                    4.6                      5.6
Dec. 84          1.2                0.4          20.9        21.3           22.5                    8.1                      9.3
June 85                             0.4          34.4        34.8           36.0                   13.6                     14.8
Dec. 85                            11.3          37.0        48.3           40.5                   20.0                     21.2
June 86                            25.9                      62.9           64.1                   27.5                     28.7
Dec. 86                            38.1                      75.1           76.3                   34.1                     35.3
June 87                            42.6                      79.6           80.8
Dec. 87                            44.1                      81.1           82.3
Assumptions:  -  Loan Signature:  April 1982
- Effectiveness:  August 1982
-  Closing Date:  June 30, 1988
- Start of  Civil Works Delay:  2  months (March 1983)
-Disbursement lag Expenditures:  3 months
- Time overrun for Civil Works:  2 months per year of construction
- Cofinancing:  Disbursed up front on civil works and supervision for both parts A and B as soon as
it is confirmed (late 1983)
Comparison with Sectoral Profile
(Cumulative % of Disbursement)
Year from Approval    1         2       3   _   4         5         6      7
Paraguay Sectoral    3.2    17.2    40.8    65.0        82.8     93.8    100
A + B                 1.0    13.2    43.7    77.9       98.2    100.0      -
A                     2.0    15.9    41.9    81.3    100.0       -         -
Source: Mission's Estimates
Al'r i  I



PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Years
Items                  ~                 1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         l s3
PART A
Civil Works
(i) San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala
Precalification
Bidding through Contracting
Mobilization and Construction                     _      -  _  _                             -
(ii) Villarrica-Numi
Precalification
Bidding through Contracting
Mobilization and Construction                     _  _  _  _  -  _
(iii) Supervision                                    _  -  _      _  _  _  _          _  _  _  _  _
Technical Assistance and Training                    -  _  _      _  _  _  _
PART B
Civil Works
(i) Tacuara-Santa Rosa
Precalification
Bidding through Contracting
Mobilization and Construction
(ii) Supervision                                  L 
Source: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
April 1982



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION)
MINISTERIAL DECREE No. 615
ASUNCION, OCTOBER 22, 1981
Whereas the need to establish a system for planning and co-
ordinating the Transport Sector to allow for overall development in
accordance with the requirements of rapid economic growth and social
progress of the country; and
Considering that the Transport Sector fulfills an important
function in the process of economic development being carried out by
the Government, for which the sectoral effort needs to be rationalized
in order to maximize benefits; and
That the working and investment programs should be prepared
following the agreed regulations and well in advance for their inclu-
sion in the expenditures budget of the Nation.
The Minister of Public Works and Communications decrees:
ARTICLE 1:    On March 1st of each year, each one of the agencies that
forms the Transport Sector under the authority of the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (General
Directorate for Highways, General Directorate for
Transport, General Directorate for Road Committees,
Feeder Roads Unit, General Directorate for Public Works,
General Directorate for the Merchant Fleet, Electric
Transport Administration, Navigation and Ports
Administration, State Merchant Fleet, and President
Carlos A. Lopez Railway) will submit their working and
investment plans for the forthcoming four years.
ARTICLE 2:    Such plans will be submitted to the Office of Coordina-
tion and Integral Planning of Transport of this Ministry
for their economic evaluation and determination of prio-
rities; such action will be coordinated with the
Ministry of Finance (Division of Financial Programing)
so that financial requirements of the proposed
investments are in accordance with the financial
forecasts of the public sector.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
ARTICLE 3:    If the adjustment to the above-mentioned financial
projections requires revisions of the original plans,
such adjustment will be carried out by the originating
Agency.
ARTICLE 4:    The Four-Year Transport Sector Plan will be submitted
annually for the approval of the Council of Economic Co-
ordination; once approved, the implementation will be
compulsory for all the agencies mentioned in Article 1.
The first year of the approved plan will be, basically,
the budget for that year.
ARTICLE 5:    The Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of
Transport (OCPIT) will send to the agencies a format
with the methodology for preparing their plan. Such
format will be followed by the agencies and will include
all elements corresponding to each specific project. In
addition, OCPIT will prepare, together with each agency,
a program for monitoring execution of the plan.
ARTICLE 6:    Transcribe this Resolution to the interested parties and
send it to files.
Signed
General (Ret) Juan A. Caceres
January 1982



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
OCPIT's Program of Activities for 1983-1984
1.        Coordination of the transport agencies' Four-Year Programs and
estimation of economic returns and relative priority of major investments
(US$5.0 million equivalent or more), as established by Ministerial Decree
No. 615-81 (Annex 1).
2.        Preparation and implementation of a continuous monitoring and
evaluation system of the execution of the studies, policies and investments
included in the four-year transport plans.
3.         Economic and financial assessments of Government-proposed
investments in railways, with an estimated cost of US$5 million or more.
4.        Updating of transport costs including terminal operations for the
various modes within the country and on international traffic corridors.
5.        Analysis of existing traffic flows, volume and value of produc-
tion, population and other basic data and forecast future traffic.
6.        Study of pricing of transport services, including:
(a) in relation to roads, pricing of fuels;
(b) pricing of port and airport services;
(c) charges, taxes and duties levied on transport activities.
7.        Supervision of pre-feasibility and feasibility transport studies
carried out under contract.
8.         Studies of technical and economic feasibility, together with the
respective modal agencies, under force account.
9.        Assessment of traffic management and other policies with a view
toward fuel conservation.
10.       Study of the energy balance by mode of transport.
11.       Updating a previous study on traffic accidents on main highways
of Paraguay and making recommendations about a national policy for highway
safety.
April 1982



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Highway
Engineering Training
1.        Technical assistance has been included in the Seventh
Highway Project to build up, through a functional training program,
the capability of DGV's professional staff to meet the technical
requirements imposed by an increasingly complex highway system.
Objectives
2.        Upon a preliminary review of procedures and performance in
highway engineering and maintenance, and particularly in programing,
contracting and monitoring engineering design work with consulting firms,
and carrying out of routine and periodic maintenance, the following major
objectives have been set:
(a) to ensure that the Engineering and Maintenance Depart-
ments under DGV acquire the expertise necessary to carry
out the control of contracts, the supervision of preli-
minary and final highway designs and the programing, imple-
mentation and monitoring of routine maintenance, periodic
maintenance, rehabilitation and strengthening works;
(b) to ensure that adequate engineering inputs are available
in the Engineering and Maintenance Departments for pre-
paring technical specifications and contract documents
for highway projects and carrying out the programing and
implementation of force account works; and
(c) to improve current highway design and maintenance practices.
Scope of Assistance
3.        The consultants will review the functions of the Engineering
and Maintenance Departments of DGV, including, but not necessarily
limited to, the following:
(a) current procedures for preparing, contracting and monitoring
engineering design works;
(b) current procedures for programing highway works, including
maintenance;



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
(c) current procedures for executing and monitoring maintenance
works; and
(d) working methods of the soils and materials laboratory of
MOPC.
Furthermore, the consultants will review the number and qualifications of
personnel and their assignments.
4.        Upon completion of their review, the consultants will report
their findings to the Director General of DGV and recommend specific
functional and technical training, which will cover, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following:
(a) project selection, engineering for feasibility analysis and
principles of planning and financial programing;
(b) pavement and highway capacity evaluations; survey work and
tests required;
(c) soils and materials studies, field explorations based on both
direct and indirect traditional methods, sampling techniques
for different purposes and laboratory testing required for
design and construction of embankments, pavements, structures
and foundations. Statistical quality control and design
parameters adapted to Paraguayan soils and available
maaterials;
(d) pavement design; thickness, design methods and utiliza-
tion of materials adapted to local conditions and traf-
fic volumes and compositions;
(e) maintenance management: productivity, use and costs of
equipment (this subject should be coordinated with the
consultants on Equipment Management); planning and or-
ganization of maintenance, supervision of maintenance
contracts;
(f) review of the standards of presentation for preliminary
and final engineering design and the contracting, admi-
nistration and supervision procedures; and
(g) review of the procedures for identification and preparation
of feeder road programs (this subject should be carried out
in direct coordination with consultants assisting UCR, under
DGV).



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
5.        Supplementing the different matters to be covered during the
training, the consultants will conduct with the trainees the field work
necessary to give practical content to the office training.
Staffing
6.        The technical assistance will be provided by the following
specialists:
(a) a highway engineer who would be the program leader and
coordinator, with experience in highway administration,
planning and programing (18 months);
(b) an engineer-designer with structural background and ex-
perience in supervision of construction works (eight months);
(c) a maintenance engineer with experience in planning, executing
and monitoring of maintenance activities (six months); and
(d) a soils and materials engineer with experience in pave-
ment'design and evaluation (eight months).
It is envisaged that the technical assistance program will be carried
out over a period of 18 months and will require a total of 40 man-months.
All staff must be fluent in Spanish and preferably have had experience in
similar training programs in developing countries.  Before the end of the
Program, the consultants will help MOPC to establish a Training Unit within
DGV.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
7.        DGV will be the executing agency; the permanent staff of
engineeers of the Engineering and Maintenance Departments will be the
recipients of the assistance. DGV may consider the inclusion of staff
about to graduate and engineers employed by local consulting firms
with which MOPC normally has contractual relations.
Reporting
8.        The consultants will be required to report to the Director
General of DGV as follows:
(a) an inception report containing the consultants' findings and
recommendations for a specific plan of action, including
curriculae; this report should be presented two months after
mobilization;



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
(b) bi-monthly progress reports during the one year period; and
(c) specific manuals or written procedures, to be issued only as
supplemental to the published material used and/or available.
January 1982



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for the Management of
Equipment Fleet and Workshops
Introduction
Under the Seventh Highway Project, a program will be carried out
by specialized consultants (firm or individuals) to assist MOPC in develop-
ing and implementing road maintenance equipment and workshop management
practices.
Objectives
The principal objectives are:
(i) Equipment Management:
(a) improve utilization of equipment in road maintenance;
(b) develop preventive maintenance controls;
(c) record equipment availability and utilization;
(d) record equipment operating and repair costs;
(e) plan equipment renewal and purchases;
(f) establish operator evaluation and training systems.
(ii) Workshop M4anagement:
(g) define repair activities to be carried out by force
account and those to be contracted out;
(h) produce recommendations on organization, coordination and
control of workshops;
(i) make recommendations regarding tool and manpower require-
ments;
(j) develop and implement inspection and evaluation proce-
dures;
(k) determine and establish training requirements for
mechanics and other personnel;



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
(1) establish maxi-minimum spare part stock levels; and
(m) implement control on spare parts requisitioning, supply
and accounting.
Scope
(a) Based on the road maintenance and betterment subprograms of
each district and the total availability of equipment based on updated
inventory, the consultants will reassign the equipment in order to improve
the utilization, reduce costs given the physical targets or maximize the
work within the budget constraints, and avoid purchases of unjustified
additional units. Besides assigning the right type of equipment to each
type of job, the consultants will make recommendations regarding related
inputs. Particularly important will be the form in which the equipment is
operated and the way in which fuel, oil, grease, and other related inputs
are and should be stocked, storaged and distributed.
(b) The consultants will assess the current, if any, preventive
maintenance activities carried out and the controls applied.  Guidelines,
when appropriate, will be developed, written in a simple manner and
applied. In addition to equipment and vehicles, preventive maintenance
procedures and controls should be extended to asphalt plants, crushing-
stone plants and all other equipment installation related to road mainte-
nance activities. A homogenous record system should be developed and
implemented.
(c) For adequate management of the maintenance fleet, it is
necessary to have a permanently updated inventory including location, age
and condition, availability and coefficient of utilization of each unit.
This information will allow, among other things, calculating capital
(interest and depreciation) and operating costs, and program replacement
and withdrawals from service.
(d) Records of equipment utilization, as indicated above, and of
repair activities should be the basis for proper costing. The consultants
must establish data requirements, forms and procedures to ensure that all
costs, direct and indirect, are suitably estimated.  Special attention will
be given to the required detail of indirect cost calculations and the form
for assigning them to programs, activities and equipment.
(e) Sound equipment management procedures with the resulting
costing system, together with the Four-Year Subprogram that MOPC will have
for highway maintenance, will allow higher productivity of equipment and
the programing of equipment replacement and additional purchases, if
necessary.
(f) The consultants will develop and implement a system to ob-
jectively evaluate the performance of equipment operators. This evaluation
system will allow the recommending of personnel management policies and
establishing of categories according to performance and responsibility. At the



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
same time, the consultants will identify training needs and will recommend
and implement courses, seminars, workshops, etc., to cover the identified
training demand.
(g) The consultants will review the available capacity of MOPC's
workshops and that of the private sector. Based on a comparative cost
analysis of repair works for road maintenance equipment, the consultants
will recommend the type and level of repair works that prove economically
convenient to carry out at the Districts' workshops and the Central
workshop.
(h) Based on the preceding analysis and recommendations (g), the
consultants will recommend and implement the organizational changes neces-
sary to carry out the force account repair works effectively. Recommenda-
tions will include the type of contractual arrangements that MOPC should
have with the private sector repair workshops. A system will be developed
and implemented for adequate control of equipment maintenance operations,
whether in the field, the Districts' workshops or the Central workshop.
(i) In line with the repairs recommended to be carried out by
force account and the corresponding organizational changes needed at the
workshops, the consultants will determine the required repair lines, tools
and manpower.
(j) The consultants will develop and implement inspection proce-
dures to assess the quality of repair works and the related productivity of
mechanics. Adequate records of repairs carried out on each equipment unit
will allow for the programing of repair works and estimating of costs and
the useful remaining economic life.
(k) Evaluation of performance of mechanics and other workshop
personnel will allow the consultants to recommend personnel management
practices and the corresponding responsibilities. Simultaneously, the
consultants will assess the training needs and proceed to implement the
courses, workshops, etc. to develop the qualified required manpower.
(1) With regard to spare parts, the consultants will recommend a
system to keep the spare parts inventory permanently updated, to store
daily spare parts for equipment in service, and to establish maximum and
minimum fast-moving (particularly for preventive maintenance) spare part
stock levels.
(m) The consultants will recommend a recording system for spare
parts in each stockroom and the subsequent requisitioning, supply costing
and accounting procedures. The system, if manual, should be developed
bearing in mind eventual computerization.
Staffing
The technical assistance will last for two years. It is envi-
saged that four experts (two for equipment management and two for workshop



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
management) will be required over the period. The equipment management
specialists should be engineers with experience in the operation and
management of road maintenance and construction equipment fleet. The
senior equipment engineer should have at least ten years of experience, and
preferably should have worked in developing countries. The second equip-
ment engineer will assist the senior engineer to perform the functions
outlined in the present terms of reference. Each engineer will remain in
Paraguay for about two years. The senior equipment engineer will also lead
the Technical Assistance Program.
The workshop management specialists should be mechanical
engineers with experience in management of equipment repair workshops. The
senior workshop specialist should have at least ten years of experience and
preferably should have worked in developing countries. The second workshop
specialist will assist the senior workshop mechanical engineer to perform
the functions in the present terms of reference.
Each engineer will remain in Paraguay for about two years. All
four candidates for the positions must have acceptable fluency in Spanish,
ability to communicate with personnel and be willing to travel within
Paraguay.
Reporting
The consultants will prepare quarterly reports addressed to the
Director General of DGV on their contribution to the operations and manage-
ment of the workshops and the improvement in availability and utilization
of the equipment fleet. The consultants will, above all, try to effect
specific practical improvements and will normally report on procedures and
systems only after they have been tested and introduced.
January 1982



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of the Economic Evaluation
A.   Introduction
1.        The main objective of the project, from the point of view of fund
allocation, is to provide for the construction and upgrading of three high
priority sections of the primary road system:  (a) the San Lorenzo-Eisebio
Ayala road (64 km); (b) the Villarrica-Numi road (28 km); and (c) the
Tacuara-Santa Rosa road (98 km). The first project road, although paved,
has design characteristics inadequate for safe and efficient operations
even for the present traffic level and composition. The other two project
roads are presently earth-surfaced and closed during rainy periods. Their
importance, besides constituting the sole connecting link between regions,
is increased by the impact on the agricultural developments within the
direct zone of influence of each road.
B.   Traffic
(i) General
2.        For the economic evaluation, each project road was divided into
sections in which present or expected traffic differences were considered
significant. In terms of traffic projections, different scenarios were
considered, and one was selected. Projections in general are conservative,
particularly if compared with the overall rate of growth of freight
traffic in Paraguay, estimated to have been around 10-13% p.a. during the
past five years. Traffic induction was estimated on the basis of transport
cost reductions and avoidance of road closures in the cases of upgrading to
paved standards.
(ii)  San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala (64 km)
3.        The existing San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala road was built in 1940,
and present traffic levels exceed its capacity. Although paved, the road
has low design speed, is barely 6 m wide and has practically no shoulders.
Traffic counts were carried out in 1979 and, for some sections, again in
1981. The results are shown in Table 1 of this annex and, when compared
with traffic figures from previous studies, show an average growth rate on
the road of about 10% p.a. over the past decade.
4.         Based on projections of population of the area directly served by
the road and of economic activity in Eastern Paraguay, traffic was
projected for each section. Total traffic was estimated as demand on the
road without capacity constraints. Normal traffic was projected taking
into account the contraction effect on traffic due to congention increasing
over time. The average rate of growth for total traffic (normal and
induced) resulted about the same on all road sections. Consequently,



- 51 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
uniform rates were considered for each type of vehicle and period. Light
vehicle traffic was taken to grow at 7.5% p.a. between 1986 and 1995 and at
6.2% p.a. afterward. Bus traffic, for the same periods, was considered to
grow at 5.3% p.a. and 4.5% p.a. respectively, while truck traffic was taken
to grow at 6.0% p.a. and 5.0% p.a., respectively. The difference between
total (with project) and normal (without project) traffic was considered
induced traffic.
(iii)  Villarrica-Numi (28 km)
5.        This section of Route 7, besides being the sole link between the
regions of Guaira, Caazapa and Paraguari, will also connect with Route 6
through a secondary road included in the Caazapa Area Development
Project.  1/  The Villarrica-Numi road is earth-surfaced and is closed for
about 75 days a year because of weather conditions. The road will serve an
agriculturally rich area with still abundant unexploited land.
6.        In 1980, the road carried between 160 and 300 VPD; total traffic
was assumed to grow at 5.3% p.a. over the lifetime of the project. This
growth rate took into account a conservative growth estimate for the
regional gross product (4% p.a.), which considered, however, the future
impact of nearby agricultural projects. Table 2 of this annex shows the
1980 traffic figures and those projected for each of the two sections into
which the project road was divided.
(iv)  Tacuara-Santa Rosa (98 km)
7.        The Tacuara-Santa Rosa is presently an earth-surfaced road which
is closed for about 100 days per year because of rain. This road was
divided into three sections based on traffic counts carried out in 1981.
The base year traffic and that projected are shown in Table 3 of this
annex. The basic assumption for the selected projection scenario was that
the gross regional product would grow uniformly as GNP at an average rate
of 7.5% p.a. until 1990 and from then on at a rate of 6.0% p.a., given that
the strong performance shown by the Paraguayan economy (6.6% p.a. during
1971-1975 and 11.0% p.a. during 1976-1980) would continue in the future.
Normal traffic is expected to grow relatively fast during the period
1983-1986, particularly as a result of traffic induced by connected ongoing
projects (Coronel Oviedo-Tacuara road, due to be completed by late 1982,
and P.J. Caballero-Yby Yau road, due to be completed in 1985). Average
rate of growth of normal traffic, once the road is in service, is estimated
at 7.3% p.a. The induced traffic is estimated conservatively and averages
12-13% of total traffic.
C.   Economic Evaluation
8.        All benefits, as well as costs, were valued at mid-1981 economic
prices, considered in the case of Paraguay to be financial prices net of
taxes and subsidies. No shadow pricing was considered necessary since
unemployment is not a problem in the project areas and free market prices
are a norm for practically all inputs. The quantified benefits were:
(a) vehicle operating cost savings due to the upgrading of the roads and
1/   Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno-Tavai road.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
the avoidance of road closures (for the Villarrica-Numi and Tacuara-Santa
Rosa roads); (b) passenger time cost savings due to shorter travel periods
and avoidance of road closures; and (c) road maintenance cost savings.
Only for the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala road, and because of its nature, an
analysis of the impact of congestion was carried out.
9.        Benefits are basically considered to accrue, in a first stage, to
road users, but, taking into account the high degree of competition, they
are expected to be transmitted to the rest of the economy in the form of
lower priced inputs/outputs. For vehicle operating cost calculations, the
methodology developed for Kenya by the Transport Road Research Laboratory
(TRRL) was used. Passenger travel time savings were obtained based on
speed differentials for light vehicles and buses. Speeds were also
calculated following the above-mentioned TRRL methodology. From
orgin-destination information, the average vehicle occupancy was obtained
as well as trip motives. Benefits from eliminating road closures were
obtained considering the average number of days per year that the presently
earth-surfaced roads must be closed and the effects on time-related vehicle
operating costs and on passengers' time value. Maintenance cost savings
were based on normative activities estimated by the technical assistance
consultants on maintenance for both earth- and paved-surfaced roads in
Paraguay.
D.   Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
10.       The weighted average economic rate of return for the civil works
component, which accounts for about 98% of project costs, is 20.5%. Each
of the three project roads shows satisfactory economic returns, and first
year benefits are clearly above the opportunity cost of capital, estimated
at about 12%. The following results summarize the economic analysis.
San Lorenzo-      Tacuara-      Villarrica-
Concept                       Eusebio Ayala    Santa Rosa          Numi
ER with Time Savings                27.5%            20.6%        17.1%
ER without Time Savings            23.0%             19.9%        16.4%
First Year Benefits                14.4%             13.4%        12.8%
Switching Value:  Costs           232.3%             96.8%        41.5%
Switching Value:  Benefits        -69.9%            -49.2%       -29.3%
11.       The sensitivity analysis shows that the ER is inelastic to
changes in costs, benefits and time value of passengers and that the risk
of unsatisfactory results is very low.
12.       The stream of costs and benefits for each project road is shown
in Tables 4, 5 and 6 of this annex. Time savings are significant only for
the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala project road; they are of marginal relevance
for the Tacuara-Santa Rosa and Villarrica-Numi project roads.
April 1982



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the San Lorenzo E. Ayala Road (64 km)
(Annual Average Daily Traffic)
Normal                   Sub             Induced            Sub
Year      Light        Bus      Truck       Total    Light   Bus   Truck   Total          Total
Section:  km 0 - km 7
1979      3,378      1,401      2,233       7,012         -      -       -         -      7,012
1988      7,050      2,240      4,060      13,350      950    370    160    1,480    14,830
1998    11,400       3,300      6,680      21,380   4,250    850    480    5,580    26,960
Section: km 7 - km 17
1979      2,543      1,239      1,820       5,602         -       -      -         -      5,602
1988      5,400      1,970      3,280      10,650      320    320    140         780    11,430
1998      8,450      2,910      5,420      16,780   2,700    720    380    3,800    20,580
Section:  km 17 - km 25
1979      1,958        852      1,506       4,316         -      -       -         -      4,316
1988      4,000      1,370      2,730       8,100       320    130      70       520      8,620
1998      6,520      2,000      4,520      13,040   1,640    330    220    2,190    15,230
Section:  km 25 - km 27
1979      1,362        813      1,633       3,808         -      -       -         -      3,808
1981      1,782        890      2,029       4,701         -      -       -         -      4,701
1988      2,980      1,340      3,000       7,320        60    120      80       260      7,580
1998      5,380      2,040      5,040      12,460      560    230    160         950    13,410
Section:  km 27 - km 41
1979      1,180        700      1,500       3,380         -      -       -         -      3,380
1981      1,539        768      1,831       4,138         -       -      -         -      4,138
1988     2,420       1,120      2,720       6,260      240    105       80       425      6,685
1998      3,860      1,640      4,560      10,060   1,240    280    180    1,700    11,760
Section:  km 41 - km 64
1979        825        337      1,158       2,320         -      -       -         -      2,320
1981      1,136        390      1,528       3,054         -      -       -         -  3 "
1988      1,860        561      2,140       4,561       105     18      10       133
1998      3,270        864      3,600       7,734      300      39      40       379      8,11S
Source:  Feasibility Study of the San Lorenzo - Eusebio Ayala Road, DGV and
Tech. Assist. to OCPIT, April 1980
March 1982



PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the Villarrica - Numi Road (28.0 km)
(Annual Average Daily Traffic)
Normal                           Sub                   Induced                   Sub
Year       Light          Bus        Truck          Total        Light        Bus      Truck       Total        Total
1980          119           33          148           300            -          -         -            -          300
1990          188           46          215           449           42         10        56          108          557
2000          298           64          312           674           65         14         81         160           834
Section:  km 11 - km 28
1980           72           25           63           160            -          -         -              -        160
1990          114           35           91           240           24          7         24          55          295
2000          183           49          133           365           35         10        35           80          445
Source: Feasibility Study of the Villarrica - Numi Road Project
OCPIT, April 1981
March 1982
o.z
m m
(D 
rN)u



PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the Tacuara-Santa Rosa Road (98 km)
(Annual Average Daily Traffic)
Normal                        Sub                     Induced                      Sub
Year         Light         Bus          Truck         Total         Light          Bus         Truck       Total   Total
Section   Km 0 - Km 18
1981           72           26           165           263            -             -            -           -        263
1990          197           77           540           814             78           42           31         151       965
2000          321          126        1,165          1,612           130            68           67         265    1,877
Section   Km 18 - Km 56.5
1981           51           24           139           214            -             -            -           -        214
1990          134           64          401            599             33           27           29          89       688
2000          218          104           866         1,188             54           44           63         161    1,349
Section Km 56.5 - Km 98
1981           40           18            96           154            -             -            -           -        154
1990          109           49           274           432             28           19           23          70       502
2000          178           80           592           850            46            31           50         127       977
Source: Updating of the Feasibility Study of the Tacuara-Santa Rosa Road, September 1981
April 1982



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Stream: S. Lorenzo - E. Ayala
(Million G - Mid 1981)
Benefits                Benefits
Period            Costs                   With Time              Without Time
1               136.7
2              1764.7
3              2206.2
4                    -                   723.0                     542.6
5               -28.3                    819.9                     614.8
6               -72.3                    930.7                     698.0
7                    -                 1065.7                      799.3
8               175.6                  1229.2                      948.1
9               -87.6                   1398.6                    1049.0
10                    -                  1589.8                    1192.6
11              -216.7                   1842.2                    1381.7
12                    -                  2061.5                    1538.3
13               483.7                   2314.7                    1736.8
14                    -                  2588.5                    1941.5
15                    -                  2896.6                    2172.4
16               -72.3                   3241.7                    2430.6
17               -87.9                   3609.4                    2714.5
18               175.6                   4045.2                    3034.0
19                    -                  4512.7                    3384.6
20                    -                  5061.3                    3796.0
21              -228.6                   5629.6                    4222.2
22                    -                  6288.8                    4716.7
23                                       7025.5                    5263.1
24                                       1634.0                    1641.3
Source: OCPIT and Mission's Estimates
November 1981



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Stream:  Villarrica - Numi
(Million G - Mid 1981)
Benefits                 Benefits
Period            Costs                With Time               Without Time
1              297.4
2              604.1                        -                       -
3                  -                   152.0                    145.4
4                  -                   159.2                    152.4
5                  -                   166.8                    159.6
6                  -                   174.7                    167.2
7               47.2                   183.0                    175.2
8                  -                   191.7                    183.6
9                  -                   199.2                    190.8
10                  -                   207.0                    198.3
11                  -                   215.1                    206.1
12              141.5                   223.5                    214.2
13                  -                   232.2                    222.6
14                  -                   241.4                    231.5
15                  -                   250.9                    240.8
16                  -                   260.9                    250.4
17               47.2                   271.2                    260.3
18                  -                   281.9                    270.6
19                  -                   293.2                    281.4
20                  -                    304.9                   292.7
21                  -                    317.0                   304.4
22                  -                   329.7                    316.6
23             -360.5
Source: OCPIT and Mission's Estimates
November 1981



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Stream: Tacuara - Sta. Rosa
(Million G - Mid 1981)
Benefits                Benefits
Period            Costs               With Time             Without Time
1             619.8                       -                       -
2              826.9                      -                       -
3            1519.4                         
4            1726.5                       -                       -
5              -1.5                   826.0                   789.6
6              -1.5                   915.9                   873.0
7              -1.5                  1004.1                   957.1
8              -1.5                  1074.5                  1044.8
9               -1.5                 1175.2                  1120.6
10              211.5                 1261.6                  1203.0
11               -1.5                 1350.8                  1288.2
12              -1.5                  1451.2                  1383.8
13              -1.5                  1557.0                  1485.0
14               -1.5                 1674.6                  1592.5
15              637.4                 1794.5                  1712.2
16              -1.5                  1928.9                  1841.0
17               -1.5                 2076.2                  1982.2
18               -1.5                 2237.8                  2136.8
19               -1.5                 2409.8                  2301.8
20               -1.5                 2602.7                  2487.2
21              211.5                 2814.0                  2689.5
22               -1.5                 3051.4                  2917.5
23               -1.5                 3300.8                  3158.7
24               -1.5                 3585.3                  3432.7
25            -1516.4
Source: OCPIT and Mission's Estimates
October 1981



- 59 --                   ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indexes
Planning
Quarterly progress vs programed work for each agency's subprograms and
projects (studies, policies, investments); adjustments made or to be
decided to meet annual targets; budget execution vs programed financial
allocations.
Road Maintenance
Quarterly progress vs programed work, by District.
Average monthly length during each quarter benefiting from:
- surface repair,
- roadside maintenance,
- drainage maintenance,
- structure maintenance, and
- budget execution vs programed financial allocation.
Periodic Maintenance
Quarterly progress vs programed work, by District, including:
- paved road kilometers resealed,
- gravel road kilometers regraveled,
- unsurfaced road kilometers reshaped, and
- budget execution vs programed financial allocation.
Rehabilitation/ Improvement
Quarterly progress vs programed work, including:
- type and extension of rehabilitation and/or improvement, and
- budget executions vs programed financial allocation.
Equipment Availability
b       Number of dump trucks        total/operational
Number of platform trucks  total/operational
Number of other trucks      total/operational
Number of motorgraders      total/operational
Number of asphalt kettles  total/operational
Number of loaders           total/operational
Number of rollers           total/operational
Number of bulldozers        total/operational
Number of scrapers          total/operational
Crushing plants             capacity/production
Asphalt plants              capacity/production



- 60 -               ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Staffing
DGV's Department of Engineering:-Professionals required, and qualifications
vs Professionals staffed, and
qualifications.
DGV's Department of Maintenance:-Professionals required, and qualifications
vs Professionals staffed, and
qualifications.
-Operators (first category) required and
staffed, by District.
-Operators (second category) required and
staffed, by District.
-Drivers (first category) required and
staffed, by District.
-Drivers (second category) required and
staffed,  by District.
-Foremen required and staffed, by
District.
-Day laborers, required and staffed, by
District.
DGV's Department of Equpipment
and Materials:          -Professionals required, functions and
qualifications vs professionals staffed,
functions and qualifications.
-Mechanics (first category) required and
staffed.
-Mechanics (second category) required and
staffed.
-Mechanics (third category) required and
staffed.
-Other workshop technicians required and
staffed.
OCPIT:                             -Professionals required, functions and
qualifications vs Professionals staffed,
functions and qualifications.
Training Program for Engineers
Quarterly progress reporting, including:
- type of training, subject, number of assisting DGV engineers,
number of other MOPC professionals assisting, number of
assisting local consultants.
April 1982



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Project Information
1.   Economic analysis of road components.
2.   Working paper on the Tacuara-Santa Rosa road project.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1.   Transport Sector Memorandum.  Report 3626-PA.  September 1981.
2.   Paraguay:  Analysis of Road Freight Transport and Intermodal
Alternatives (Cono Sur). Report 3310a-LAC, June 1981.
3.   Ten-Year Transport Plan.  Technical Assistance to OCPIT, June
1980.
C.   Studies and Reports Directly Related to the Project
1.   Feasibility Study of the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala Road.
SAE-EIT-CONTEC. Technical Assistance to OCPIT, April 1980.
2.   Feasibility Study of the Tacuara-P.J. Caballero Road.
SAE-EIT-CONTEC. Technical Assistance to OCPIT, December 1977.
3.   Feasibility Study of the Villarica-Numi Road.  OCPIT, April 1981.
4.   Final Design of the Tacuara-Santa Rosa Road.
5.   Final Design of the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala Road.
6.   Guia de las Firmas Consultoras Paraguayas.
7.   Proyecto de Ley Sobre el Regimen Legal de la Industria de la
Construccion.
8.   Computer Printouts for Calculations of the 1982 Maintenance
Targets.
9.   1982 MOPC Budget.
D.   SELECTED WORKING PAPERS AND TABLES PREPARED BY MISSION MEMBERS
1.   Computer Printouts for Economic Calculations.






Li O L  V  A                    .                       -8  /                             -                         si;
A -   '  '  RG                                                         <               i NTI    V A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I'                                                       R 1,C 2                     
Eel~- VA                  .-                         '8$ ,e>
|    A   .  :   8                                <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'$ @w"f-:
I  \\                      X                                      V                                                            '¢ "- N "-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
!$     /" 6t-$mt>°°\                                                                                                                                  6 re
II'                688 -r .''8                                                         4 K 6r 8s                                                                 -  u\tPPeoo   sC  O
-22 / rIvrords Mu lx;ol sors bm S 2>__ 2
/~~~~~~~~  Eoo                                                                                _0    g1
888 68_1X-8 8.8 $ 
\~~~~~~~~$                                   \,6T8 6snoo.,oL_r a-> Sro
\                D I S T R | C TS                            QgDa     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D IS T RI CT  44SQs';                          68't
'C~ 
$6    L_~M   \<,...<   vr    
PAIN     AGGHAY NETOR                                                                                              8$S  >8>; 
________                                                                                                     /8 6i 68= r.84........... ,^.1ARGENTINA t
6 1  86w t 8,  -  86 88                          /   6'8  8             ;6    -862--             ,8  s  88






\.       58°                                 lt   57-              Sgntq RO9X=~~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~~~A%LR  5Nt                ss- 
BRAZIL                                                       (                                   L2                                                                                                   J
BOLIVIA 1.)                                                                 \AYoEor
PUERTOSAROYANID                                                          C
-'Elh-od.Aqu- o
ARG-ENT..NA       ~                                                                                o   oHO       -no
S-P                                                                 u                 Irubi                                                                                                        O i
IIL'                                                                         Yh6~C~OIen    ~ C
II''ll    C Ero-oco          \Y6 Yb yI-rn                             D
A R G E N  T I N  A 7f                                                   -  Acohoy         /                       CoolEDorLi  /-                                                                         /
,io-  _                       /           / oy          .               RN, FturboVIEOOndny 0.
'o  '                      r._2 VO0         7 --_ J                  n                       -----       -          d    nJ
\ 7S<   Lip,   /uvclni                 \             pldMro            Ccjace                                         
N             <'       .< /STb?  >DL06t    g                              - 
>  V,IoFJd                           /~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         ' I CALP~SZo-ss
DA UANBUIT                 //                                                                         PARAGUAYR
t             {  8ig  L.cbUeD    'lse)L LARRICA                              )     w                          -|        -~ 
ARG  E NT I NHA                                          ,'o                                                                  Cnlonodror "                                         FR ,J C-1o E         P-oWl IS-PAl
,DroIR .IE  Sian                                                                                                                                                C nfloan P atrrcio    c '  BA NK   PR O JECTS
27°~ ~   ~ ~~ I Cord-             Donrchd                                                  SO>  /0 P<|.Q                          Troio I   egao (( 5,oWXoheaY FRTH1HA   RJ.C5an9-A.rdt    A
HJrHu<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co /ooo    Cono lSr                                   t a               TndoContoro9   SECOND HIGHWAY 0RJC  Lro 4-A
j  _X-' °7 ~~~~~~ ->; ~~~ p Liep></ . '                                                ,~J  NAFo1   ~~fiJRACIO +o>e'Pr  =Fecoibilify shodiesNdante dalIed engineerine
<oCORRIENTES  wd   p  _    _      . l        r    t     oSCh?ET4yMrlvSs   POSADASo>-y                                             Momterionce project~~~~orolconce  rojuc
A t   A  R G   E N  T  I N  A                            '        z)         9Z)           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8iiuminoun surfgcod roods.-C                   JT(La05 PA
)   wrsidrtr# h@$ freerr PrePere rbr the                                                   Gta reA ~~~Snoo/nearlbsu fooc0ed rondo  FIFTY HIGHWAY PROJECT 5Loon 1529 -PA)
; 9  r h ;   m p                                MILES                            ____  T~~~~              ~~                      ~~~~~~~~ra nod  517TH HIGHWAY PROEC  mSoo enn c l7Sa
tCor0prrroruOond5~~~~~~~~~~~~~,"ofl~~~1§g    INI
O0,ucno.,  58O2a4r 60                                       8I0E                                                ----- Mitenat oudris                                    bU  :77.,9ndcscarton  b
Quyq°y                                           5°rM0u,9
W o d r 2 r , r r N~ ,   0 95                       2         0       E         0M                       m   p r nf
0'OY0OyrlrSj.,p or                 L.....~~Vd   LpM,id- Fia C.A.Lonpez    an   nrt,tin                                                                                                   -
'05-0 0'YOrOOrO-0oOr,r  KILYMETENS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of 
S-j- B.wim. ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      -- .IlenlnolEudeinSVET    IGWYPOJC                                                                   r
NO'                                SI~~~~~~~~IOw SM.Rs                      I o AdrrNETrWORKn



