Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-327 7-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 19, 1982
i This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                d 126
a 1.00                 US$0.008
a 1,000                Us$7.94
a 1,000,000            US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
DGV   -   General Directorate for Highways
MOPC  -   Ministry of Public Works and Communications
OCPIT -   Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of Transport
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                   =      10,000 m2  =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 =      0.62 miles
l-square kilometer (km2)         =      0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =      2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =      0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  =  1 metric ton        =      0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:       Republic of Paraguay
AMOUNT:         US$46.0 million equivalent (including US$0.7 million front-end
fee).
TERMS:          Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
11.6% interest per annum.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:   The project would consists of:  (I) Civil works and related
supervision services for: (i) widening of a 64-km section of
Route 2 between San Lorenzo and Eusebio Ayala, including the
construction of two additional lanes along 30 km; (ii)
upgrading, including paving of a 98-km section of Route 3,
between Tacuara and Santa Rosa; and (iii) upgrading, including
paving of a 28-km section of Route 8, between Villarrica and
Numi. (II) Upgrading the Ministry of Public Works and
Comunications' planning, technical and managerial capabilities
through: (i) initiation of an annual planning and programing
system for the transport sector; (ii) strengthening the
Ministry's Planning Department; and (iii) implementation of a
staffing and training program for the Ministry's Roads
Directorate. (III) Improvement in the efficiency of the
Directorate's maintenance operations, through programming and
monitoring.
PROJECT RISKS: The arrangements proposed for the finalization of the
financing plan would give the Government and the Bank the
necessary discretion to adjust the project scope in the event
that co-financing does not materialize, an unlikely
possibility given the country's creditworthiness. The annual
review of the highway program would also provide an
opportunity to assess overall funding requirements (in
particular those related to the on-going projects) and compare
them with the level of resources available to MOPC. The
relatively good performance of Paraguay in the implementation
of similar components of previous projects suggests that the
risks attached to the civil works components are low. The key
problem of adding more engineers to DGV has been directly
addressed with specific timing applied to the undertakings
from the Government. The implementation of the new planning
process, including the development and consolidation of the
system, would take several years and presents a high element
of uncertainty since the process entails a new approach by
agencies involved. Inadequate coordination between agencies
and lack of follow-up are the main potential source of
difficulties and delays which will have to be dealt with
during supervision.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COSTS:
Local Foreign Total
Items                               ----(US$ Millions)---
Part A
I.   Construction and Upgrading of Primary Roads
Civil works for:
(i) San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala                       10.6    24.7    35.3
(ii) Villarrica-Numi                                  2.3      5.5      7.8
(iv) Supervision of Construction                      1.3      3.0      4.3
Subtotal                                       14.2    33.2    47.4
II.   Technical Assistance to DGV and OCPIT
(i) Management of the Equipment Fleet
and Workshops                                   0.1      0.4      0.5
(ii) Purchase of Vehicles, Office Equipment
and Pavement Evaluation Equipment                -       0.1      0.1
(iii) Training of Engineers                            0.1      0.3      0.4
(iv) Assistance to OCPIT                               -       0.3     0.3
Subtotal                                        0.2      1.1      1.3
Base Cost (At February 1982 Prices)                 14.4    34.3    48.7
Contingencies:  physical                             1.4      3.3      4.7
price                              5.2      5.7    10.9
Total Part A                                       21.0    43.3    64.3
Part B
Construction and Upgrading of Tacuara-
Santa Rosa                                     11.2    26.0       37.2
Supervision of construction                          1.1      2.6       3.7
Base Cost                                           12.3    28.6       40.9
Contingencies:  physical                             1.2      2.9       4.1
price                              6.5      7.5      14.0
Total Part B                                       20.0    39.0        59.0
Total Project Costs                                41.0    82.3    123.3 1/
Front-end Fee of Bank Loan                            -       0.7       0.7
Total Financing Required                           41.0    83.0    124.0
1/   Directly imported items are exempt from taxes and duties.  Taxes for
other items are not significant.



- iii -
FINANCING PLAN:
Local Foreign Total
---(US$ Millions)----
Bank                              46      46
Government               41               41
Co-financing                      37      37
Total                    41       83     124
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS: 2/
Bank FY:        1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
----------(US$ Millions)----------
Annual           1.5   0.5   0.2  25.5  16.7   1.6
Cumulative       1.5   2.0   2.2  27.7  44.4  46.0
RATE OF RETURN:      21%
STAFF APPRAISAL
REPORT:              Staff Appraisal Report - Seventh Highway Project, Report
No. 3791b-PA, dated April 19, 1982
2/   Assumes that the US$37 million in co-financing would become available
by October-December 1983.



a



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR THE
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$46.0 million, which
includes a capitalized front end fee of 1.5% on the Bank Loan, to assist in
financing the Seventh Highway Project. The Loan would have a term of 17
years including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 11.6%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in November 1980 and its
report "Economic Memorandum on Paraguay" (3569-PA, September 1981), covering
short- and medium-term developments, has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. The following discussion is based on the findings of this
mission. Country data sheets are presented in Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing, is the
mainstay of Paraguay's economy.  Over the last two decades these activities
directly contributed about 30% of GDP, 40% of employment and 80% of
merchandise exports earnings. Indirectly, their contribution is even larger,
since most of Paraguay's manufacturing industry consists in the processing of
agricultural materials, both for home consumption and for export. Although
no significant mineral resources have been found in Paraguay, the country is
endowed with ample land suitable for farming and livestock raising, as well
as significant forest stands. These land resources are located east of the
Paraguay river. The area west of that river--the Chaco, particularly its
northern half--is generally unsuitable for agriculture owing to insufficient
or uneven rainfall.   Of the 8 million hectares in the eastern half of the
country suitable for farming, only some 1.4 million--less than 20%--are
at present under crops.
4.        During the 1960's, agriculture's and overall economic growth was
slow: 1.8% and 4.3% annually, respectively, in constant prices. The
introduction of soy beans in 1970 accelerated growth, and both crop
production and forestry exploitation expanded substantially.  Livestock
production also increased, though somewhat less. The construction of the
Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the Parana river jointly with Brazil, started in
the mid-1970's, gave a new and strong impulse to the economy, the more so as
it coincided with favorable conditions in world markets for cotton and soy
beans, Paraguay's main export crops. The combined effect of both factors
made it possible for Paraguay to achieve during 1974-80 an average growth
rate of just under 10%.   This has been accompanied by other improvements in
the standard of living, as reflected in the increased life expectancy and



literacy rates, while child mortality has declined.  Nutritional levels are
comparable to those found in countries with higher per capita incomes. The
agricultural growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the
real incomes of the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of
the total. A significant share of production of cotton and soybeans, which
account for most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers, many of
whom have received land under government and privately sponsored colonization
programs. Rural wages have, though with some lags, generally been rising in
real terms. Thus, the benefits of agricultural growth have been fairly
widely shared. Despite the significant progress made in recent years,
however, Paraguay's per capita income is still low and large segments of the
population still live in poverty. On the other hand, rising incomes, the new
dynamism of the economy and the greater social mobility, are creating new and
more diverse needs, both at the individual and national levels, as well as
stronger expectations that they be satisfied. This creates for the
government and the private sector new demands for expanding much needed
social services, particularly with regard to education and health services.
5.   The considerable increase of Paraguay's agricultural production in re-
cent years has been achieved by expanding the area under cultivation. This
has been taking place through a process of colonization carried out largely
by small farmers, who, particularly at the beginning, migrated from the
minifundia area around Asuncion. This process, initially organized by the
government, became massive and largely spontaneous, and of late has been fur-
ther stimulated--and to some extent guided--by the construction of roads into
new lands and the improvement of the existing road network.
6.        The construction of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam has provided
well-paid employment to several thousand skilled and semi-skilled Paraguayan
workers and given rise to a constellation of productive activities supplying
construction materials and services for the dam itself and also for the rapid
expansion of Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, thriving on the boom arising from
the huge hydroelectric project. Both the construction of the dam and the
expansion of the nearby city have increased the demand for food and consumer
goods--many of them agricultural-based--thus creating an additional powerfull
attraction for further expanding agricultural production into the eastern
regions.
7.        The high rate of economic growth and per capita incomes, sustained
now for nearly a decade, and the relatively broad distribution of their
benefits, as well as some features of the development process itself, are
rapidly changing important aspects of Paraguay's economy. The growing
stronger links with the outside world expand outlets for the country's
production and increase the need for investment capital and the adoption of
modern, more efficient technology. This process also subjects the economy
more than ever before to changing world economic conditions.
8.        The rapid growth of aggregate demand had been slowly pushing prices
upwards for three years. These pressures were reinforced in 1979 by the
second round of oil price increases and a poor crop-year resulting from
unfavorable weather. Consequently, inflation accelerated to 28%, compared to
10.6% the previous year. The authorities adopted in 1980 a series of trade
liberalization measures intended to induce greater registration of imports,



and increase lagging Central Government customs revenues. The maintenance of
a restrictive public sector expenditures policy and a record crop helped to
lower the inflation rate to 22%, at the same time that a real growth rate of
11.4% was achieved, and international reserves increased by US$167 million.
9.        In 1981, growth slowed to 8.6%.  This slower, albeit still
satisfactory, pace of the economy was caused mainly by a 5% drop in commodity
exports and the cessation of tourism from and exports to Argentina as a
result of the large devaluation of the Argentinian peso and recession. These
developments weakened the Central Government financial position, though
strong restraint of current expenditures reduced the over-all deficit.
Balance-of-payments performance was satisfactory, as the larger current
account deficit was covered by capital inflows, and net international
reserves increased by US$45 million.
10.       The authorities reacted to the slower pace of economic activity by
adopting a series of measures designed to bolster lagging Central Government
revenues, stimulate commodity exports and arrest the growth of imports.
Several tax measures were enacted, and steps were taken to strengthen tax
administration. In the credit, monetary, and foreign exchange fields, the
Central Bank adopted regulations allowing the banks to pay higher interest
rates on savings deposits and to operate in the free foreign exchange
market. This latter measure should strengthen the Central Bank's control of
foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank also now allows exporters
to negotiate 50% of their foreign exchange earnings in the fluctuating
market, thereby improving their competitive position, while all
imports--except petroleum and wheat--are now required to acquire foreign
exchange in that same market.
Economic Prospects
11.       Paraguay's economic prospects are favorable.  The country still has
unutilized agricultural land sufficient to sustain for many years the recent
expansion of production, though greater attention will also have to be paid
to increasing agricultural productivity. Though the large capital inflows
associated with the construction of Itaipu are likely to taper off in the
near future, it is expected that this reduction will be largely compensated
by official external borrowing and inflows associated with the construction
of the Yacyreta hydroelectric dam. Also, once Itaipu comes on stream, the
4        Paraguayan Government willl begin to receive compensation for its sales of
electric energy to Brazil.
12.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 7-8% during 1982-85. This projected rate is
lower than the average of 1977-80 as a consequence of the expected decline of
construction activity on Itaipu after 1982. In the light of the experience of
recent years, and taking into account the stronger and more articulated
government support to the ongoing agricultural expansion, real exports are
projected to grow at 11% annually; imports are projected to grow somewhat
less, partly as a result of slower GDP growth and partly as a result of the
transfer of their payment to the free exchange market, which eliminates the
incentive represented by the purchase of foreign exchange at the official



rate. Based on the above assumptions, Paraguay's resource gap would be some-
what larger during the projection period than in recent years, amounting on
the average to about US$600 million. However, it would drop from the present
14% of GDP to 9% by 1985. Thus, Paraguay would need some US$2.4 billion of
net capital inflows during that four-year period. Of this amount, $0.3
billion would result from direct private investment; some $0.9 billion would
come from long-term multilateral loans by private creditors and about US$1.0
billion from Itaipu and Yacyreta hydroelectric projects. Public sector
borrowing of about $0.7 billion would thus be required, of which some $0.4
would be for amortization. According to our projections the debt service
ratio* will be around 17% this year, drop to 10% in 1983 and to 5% by 1985.
13.       The role of the Government in this context is to continue to
support economic expansion through private sector initiative and ensure a
greater participation by the population in the benefits of growth.
Instrumental in this will be the effort to remove the most important
contraints facing the small farmers, such as lack of infrastructure,
marketing facilities, credit, extension and the provision of social
services. The rising income and the plentiful supply of agricultural raw
materials provide, at the same time, a favorable environment for the
manufacturing sector. Government support in the provision of capital and the
development oL manpower will be required. To play an effective role, the
Government also has to expand its technical and administrative capacity to
prepare and execute a larger investment program. The need to increase the
absorptive capacity of the economy, particularly that of the public sector,
is an attainable and imperative goal in the light of the financial resources
that will in time be accruing to the Government in compensation for the
electric power sold to neighboring countries. Given the continuation of
current economic policies, the country's growing capital requirements, and
the projected capital inflows, Paraguay is expected to maintain its
creditworthiness for external financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       To date, Paraguay has received US$368.9 million (net of
cancellations) of Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$319.1
million has been in the form of 22 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight
IDA credits. As of March 31, 1982, the Bank and IDA held US$351.6 million,
including US$181.0 million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA
as of December 31, 1980, was equivalent to about 22% of Paraguay's external
debt, with a blend of about 18% IDA and 82% IBRD; this share is not expected
to increase. The service on this debt amounted to 12.6% of total debt
service in 1978 or about 1.2% of exports of goods and non-factor services.
On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay to date has been 43%
for agriculture, 29% for transportation; 11% for industry, 10% for education,
2% for preinvestment studies in various sectors, and 5% for water supply.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Similarly,
the record in the disbursement of the corresponding credits/loans, has been
good.
*    Calculated on the whole external debt, public and private.



-5-
15.       IFC has had three operations in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project through a US$4.0 million loan, an equity partici-
pation of US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost
overruns of US$0.4 million. The project experienced critical financial and
managerial problems, and efforts to restructure it did not succeed. IFC is
in the process of divesting itself of such assets. In 1980, IFC financed a
US$1.2 million hotel operation in the city of Encarnacion. In 1981, an IFC
investment in an agricultural project in southeastern Paraguay, was approved,
consisting of a US$5.0 million loan and a US$2.0 million equity partici-
pation.   Lastly, the Board approved this fiscal year, an IFC supported hotel
operation in Asuncion entailing a US$2.5 million loan and a US$0.881 million
equity participation. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments, as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY82 consists of the Caazapa Area
Development Project, recently approved. The proposed project is closely
related to this operation and to a Rural Development Project in Eje Norte,
which is being presented to the Executive Directors separately. Preparation
work is underway on projects in: ports and inland waterways, urban and rural
development in Southeastern Paraguay, agricultural credit, livestock
development and education.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and comple-
mentary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely than
before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and,
particularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.
18.       Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural
water supply is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to
improve the living standards of the lowest 40% on the income distribution
scale. Similarly, Bank Group lending for industry, agricultural development
and livestock is aimed at increasing value added and exports of agricultural
products, and at expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small
farmers. Lastly, loans in the transport sector are designed to help improve
institutional structures and policies of the sector, which play a vital role
in supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors. As agriculture constitutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy,
these operations are designed to support, either directly or indirectly, the
development of that sector, by underpinning in particular the Government's
efforts in extending social and other backup services, financial support and
technical assistance to existing and new agricultural settlements. In
particular, Bank-financed highway projects in Paraguay emphasize support to
programs designed to improve the living conditions in rural areas. Pre-
investment projects are aimed at supporting programs that help overcome



- 6 -
institutional constraints, in particular in planning, economic management,
and project preparation and execution. The proposed project is in line with
the objectives of supporting the programs designed to improving living
conditions in rural areas, and the strengthening of public institutions such
as those providing basic services and infrastructure to the rural poor and
supporting agricultural development efforts within the framework of ecologic-
ally sound measures.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
19.       After a prolonged period of isolation that ended in the 1950's
Paraguay depends increasingly for its continued economic development on the
maintenance and expansion of its transport system, as its economy is based on
high volume/low product value of primary and processed agricultural
products. Some 80% of the population, most of the rich agricultural soils,
and all of the country's major hydroelectric resources are concentrated
southeast of the Paraguay River in what is known as the "Triangle" area of
Asuncion-Encarnacion-Ciudad Presidente Stroessner. Historically, economic
growth was centered in this area while the main artery for external trade has
been the Paraguay River south of Asuncion entering the River Plate Basin and
the sea. Since the late 1960s, the Government has made determined efforts to
expand outwards from this base with the objective of: (a) improving
communications between the principal populated centers; (b) improving links
with the road systems of neighboring Brazil and Argentina, affording
alternative routes to the Atlantic Ocean; (c) providing access to
agriculturally rich farmland east of the Paraguay river while progressively
penetrating the Chaco, the under populated ranchlands northwest of the
Paraguay River; and (d) maintaining and improving domestic airport
facilities.
The Transport System
(a) River Transport and Ports
20.       About 60% of Paraguay's international traffic is handled by river.
The Paraguay and the Parana are the principal navigable rivers of Paraguay
and, with the Rio de la Plata constitute a 1,600 km system. Bulk exports,
such as wood products, cattle and meat, tobacco, cotton and soya are mostly
shipped from ports on the Paraguay River to Buenos Aires for onloading to
seagoing vessels. North of Asuncion, the Paraguay River provides
communication to agricultural settlements around Concepcion and the northeast
border with Brazil. However, river transport is restricted by the limited
depth and width of navigable channels in the Paraguay River and the high
speed of current in the Parana River. The Government is in the process of
converting its merchant fleet from self-propelled ships to push-tow barges
and tugs. The port of Asuncion, improved with Bank financing (Loan 437-PA,
US$2.8 million, December 1965), is by far the largest of the country's ports
and has sufficient capacity, but limited investments are needed to renew
obsolete equipment and facilities and to provide equipment and storage to
handle the small volume of container traffic using the port.  Congestion in



- 7 -
the port zone in related urban areas is exacerbated by export of bulk goods
through Asuncion, and alternatives are being sought; a project to strengthen
port facilities in Asuncion and neighboring Villeta is under preparation with
financing under IDA Credit 587-PA and Loan 1780-PA (First and Second
Preinvestment Studies Projects).
(b) Air Transport and Airports
21.       International passenger traffic is growing at a rate of 5.5% p.a.
over the past five years. Domestic air traffic, while low in terms of
absolute numbers, is important because it often constitutes the only means of
transport among various sections of the country, especially during the wet
season when many roads are closed. Two Paraguayan airlines provide scheduled
air transportation, one domestically and the other internationally. The
growth of domestic aviation is hampered by antiquated aircraft, inadequate
air fields and poor navigational aids, and there is a need for institutional
development. Studies were carried out by consultants with financing from IDA
Credit 587-PA with a view to developing proposals for improvements in the
subsector. The Government, however, did not agree with the recommendations,
either because of the location of some of the selected airports or because of
design standards. Ten airports provide commercial services; only Asuncion
has a paved runway and facilities that allow 24-hour operations. In
addition, with external financing, major all-weather airports are expected to
be constructed in Ciudad Presidente Stroessner and Pedro Juan Caballero; and
the Army is constructing a paved runway in the Chaco, at Mariscal
Estigarribia.
(c) Railways
22.       The continued operation of the Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez
railway is a permanent tenet of Government policy. It links Asuncion to
Encarnacion (376 km) and is connected by ferry to the Argentine railway.
Railway traffic is small in absolute and relative terms when compared to
other modes and the railway does not attract sufficient traffic to be
financially self-sustaining. In 1971 the Bank obtained a Government
undertaking to limit railway subsidies. However, the deficit of the railway
has increased from US$630,000 in 1971 to US$2.1 million in 1980. Several
studies have suggested limited track rehabilitation, which would maintain the
railway in operation at lower cost and would allow it to increase its freight
traffic while continuing to provide an alternative to river and road
transport connecting with Argentina.
23.       The Government has been considering proposals to upgrade the
existing railway and to electrify its operations. Concern with the financial
viability of the railway led to inclusion under the Loan Agreement 1529-PA
and 1736-PA (Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects) of a Government undertaking
not to make investments in the railways' permanent way and rolling stock
without prior review by the Government's transport planning agency (OCPIT);
and to consult the Bank on the findings of the above review in case of
investments of more than US$5 million in any given year. Such a review would
include an assessment of the impact of the proposed investments on the public
finances. Moreover, construction of a new railway has been agreed in
principle between Paraguay and Brazil. The first stage of the 377 km section
in Brazil is under construction. The investment cost of the railway section
in Paraguay would be about US$500 million, the economic justification of



- 8 -
which is currently under review. The proposed alignment would go through
Coronel Oviedo and meet the existing line in Villarcica. From there to
Asuncion, a third rail would be added to the existing track to permit narrow
gauge operation of the new railway.
(d) Highways
24.       Road development in Paraguay really commenced in 1950 when the
total road network was only 850 km; today the network totals 10,300 km, of
which about 1,500 km (15%) are paved. Past efforts were concentrated on
economic and population centers and paving the most heavily travelled roads.
Hlowever, because of rain, some of the roads are closed for periods totaling
about 100 days per year affecting adversely the economic development of vast
areas of the country. Some 7,500 km of the network are secondary and feeder
roads. The latter were constructed by various Government agencies and by
farmers, but are sporadically maintained and are impassable during the rainy
season. The feeder road network is presently being inventoried by a Feeder
Road Unit, a part of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC),
that was established under the Sixth Highway Project to plan and coordinate
all related activities. The existing road network is densest in the south-
eastern part of Paraguay. The two principal inter-urban routes, Asuncion-
Ciudad Presidente Stroessner (376 km), and Asuncion-Encarnacion (370 km) are
paved all-weather roads. Historical traffic survey data are not reliable,
but estimates are that traffic on the primary network has grown consistently
above 8% p.a. over the last five years.
25.       Road transport regulation is the responsibility of the MOPC's
General Directorate for Transport, but in practice domestic truck transport
is practically unregulated. Competition among domestic truckers and with
international operators competitors is keen, and service levels are good;
freight rates compare favorably with those of neighboring countries. The
Paraguayan trucking fleet, while still small, has been growing rapidly.
Overloading of vehicles remains a serious problem in Paraguay. The Fifth
Highway Project provided for the purchase of weighing scales and for the
construction of weighing stations. The same loan also provided for a study
of the regulatory framework and institutional arrangements for effective
enforcement of weight regulations. After the study was completed, the
Government prepared an axle load enforcement program that will be implemented
once the weighing stations become operational. The vehicle weight control
system will be fully operating by late 1982.
26.       Highway expenditures increased from an annual average of US$4.5
million over the period 1970-1972 to US$41.9 million over the period
1978-1980, which represents a real increase of about 170%. Present commit-
ments average a level of annual expenditures for the 1982-1984 period of
about US$115.0 million. Of these, 44% are provided by external loans while
the rest stems from the general budget. Until 1976, road infrastructure
expenditures were lower than road user charge revenues. Since then, and
basically because of fixed nominal value fuel taxes established in 1963, the
real value of road user taxes decreased while highway expenditures
increased. Revenues from user charges covered 64% of highway expenditures in
1980. In September 1981, the Government increased the taxes on vehicle fuels
and changed the tax base from fixed to ad valorem. This measure would allow



- 9 -
road user charge revenues to cover an substantial proportion of highway
expenditures, including all current expenditures and about 80% of capital
expenditures, which is considered an adequate level given the stage of
development of Paraguay.
27.       The transport sector is the main consumer of petroleum products
which are totally imported: gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel represent
about 95% of the overall consumption. The structure of petroleum product
consumption has changed in the past 20 years. Diesel fuel increased its
share of national consumption from about 15% to close to 60%. The trend to
increase the price of gasoline relative to diesel has helped to change the
truck fleet to more efficient diesel powered engines; current prices are
among the highest in the world.  The trend has also increased the number of
diesel fueled cars which now fail to make a proportionate contribution to
highway finances.
Transport Investment Planning
28.       Paraguay is slowly moving toward the development of transport
sector planning as a systematic task. Over the last 20 years, several
medium- and long-term investment programs have been prepared with UNDP or
Bank financing. They provided a framework to support expanding and upgrading
the primary road network and, later on, the maintenance system. Paraguay's
transport system has grown in complexity and size. The focus of the planning
effort must shift from large individual primary and secondary road projects
to diversified programs requiring coherent planning and programing methods.
In October 1972, OCPIT was set up as a sectoral planning advisory group
within MOPC. Assisted by consultants, this group initiated the development
of in-house planning capacity for the transport sector. Severe staff
constraints have, however, restricted the role of OCPIT to preparation of
feasibility studies and it has had little impact so far upon the overall
operations of DGV. Accordingly, during the preparation of the proposed
project, measures were agreed with the Government to strengthen, and make
more explicit, the role of OCPIT within the transport sector.
29.       A decree was issued on October 22, 1981, by MOPC establishing
procedures and schedules for the preparation of a four-year transport sector
working and investment plan, to be updated annually, starting with the period
1983-86.  The individual agencies within MOPC, amongst them DGV, would each
prepare their own program, with OCPIT having the responsibility for overall
coordination. The plan would be sent to the Bank for comments by not later
than July 31, each year, starting on July 31, 1983 (Section 3.07 of draft
Loan Agreement). This planning effort forms part of Government steps to
develop medium-term public sector investment programs, supported through
current Bank preinvestment projects.
30.       The same Ministerial Decree specifies that OCPIT would prepare, and
carry out jointly with each agency, a system to monitor the implementation of
their four-year programs. The Government confirmed that such system would be
reviewed with the Bank not later than October 31, 1982 and would start to be
utilized by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.08 of draft Loan Agreement). The
implementation of the new sectoral planning system would constitute the core
of OCPIT's activities. In addition, OCPIT would carry out a review of



- 10 -
pricing policies, especially road user charges, and would collect and publish
sectoral data. The work program for 1983-1984 was reviewed during
negotiations, at which time the Government confirmed that OCPIT's work
program would be updated periodically in consultation with the Bank (Annex B
to Schedule 2 of draft Loan Agreement). In addition, to assist the planning
process, under the Fifth Highway Project, the Government agreed-to institute
a systematic traffic counting program. The results of this, program, it was
agreed at negotiations, would be submitted to the Bank every six months,
starting from December 31, 1982 (Section 3.06 of draft Loan Agreement).
Management of Maintenance and Rehabilitation Operations
31.       DGV is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining all
national and departmental roads, except in the Chaco area where the Army has
responsibility for roads (with the exception of the Transchaco trunk road).
The strong demand for qualified technical personnel for the Itaipu and the
Yacyreta hydroelectric projects has reduced the Ministry's ability to retain
experienced staff, especially at DGV's headquarters. DGV has been able to
alleviate the situation to some degree by "topping-up" the salaries of key
personnel and hiring consultants, a policy supported under the ongoing Bank-
financed projects. The tapering off of the hydroelectric projects should
further alleviate the problem. Under the proposed project the staffing
requirements were identified and and agreed by the Government (Annex C to
Schedule 2 of draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the Government and the
Bank agreed to review annually, not later than July 31, starting in 1983,
DGV's staffing situation (Section 3.14(b) of draft Loan Agreement). Because
of the shortage of highway engineers, most positions would be filled
primarily with recently graduated professionals, who would be trained
on-the-job under a special technical assistance provided by the proposed
project.
32.       DGV's capacity to execute road maintenance improved over the last
decade. The equipment fleet expanded considerably, provision of spare parts
and workshop tools improved, and yearly budgetary allocations grew in line
with agreed estimates of requirements. The basis for planning road
maintenance and betterment was developed under the Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects: a 1982-1986 maintenance and betterment subprogram was prepared to
be adjusted systematically year by year in the context of the Four-Year
Highway Program. The Government agreed that it would: (a) update and
implement the Four-Year Maintenance and Betterment subprogram; (b) carry out
and monitor the resulting activities; and (c) provide the yearly budgetary
allocations to carry out such activities (Section 4.03 of draft Loan
Agreement).
33.       DGV's fleet comprises about 900 units, of which about 50% are
devoted to maintenance operations; the remaining 50% is used for construction
of a primary highway (Chaco), contruction and betterment of feeder roads and
other activities. The current fleet would be adequate were a higher
proportion to be devoted to maintenance. The proposed project would provide
the financing of a technical assistance program to improve management of the



- 11 -
fleet, workshops and spare part warehouse. The Fifth Highway Project
provided for the purchase of a stock of spare parts which is currently
supplemented by purchases financed from DGV's operating budget. The
Government confirmed that it would continue to provide funds for the timely
supply of spare parts and that DGV would implement a system for the control
of spare parts not later than July 31, 1983 (Section 3.14(e) of draft Loan
Agreement). The Government also confirmed that the San Lorenzo Workshop will
be staffed according to recommendations of the consultants on workshop and
equipment management, not later than July 31, 1983 (Section 3.14(d) of draft
Loan Agreement).
34.       Under the Fifth Highway Project, MOPC undertook to create a fund
*        for the renewal of equipment in order to alleviate the serious problem caused
by previous practices of bulk purchases, every four or five years, through
external financing. A provision of US$1.3 million was included in the 1981
MOPC budget for equipment renewal, but the funds have not been used because
the equipment at hand was sufficient for the needs of that time. Some equip-
ment units must now be replaced, and a replacement program must be prepared.
The Government confirmed that it would continue to provide funds for renewal
of equipment (Section 3.11 (b) of draft Loan Agreement), and that an
equipment renewal program would be sent to the Bank for comments not later
than July 31 of each year, starting from 1983 until project completion
(Section 3.11(a) of draft Loan Agreement).
35.       Although Paraguay is still in the process of building up its
primary network, it has about 1,500 km of paved roads, some of which are more
than ten years old and have experienced annual traffic growth consistently
above 8%. Pavement strengthening and, in some instances, rehabilitation are
becoming important components of DGV's program. The project would support
the establishment, within DGV, of a pavement evaluation group to conduct a
systematic survey of the existing paved network over the period 1983-1985.
The tentative list of roads to be surveyed annually over the 1983-1985 period
for possible rehabilitation would be prepared by DGV and submitted to the
Bank for comments; the list would be updated annually (Section 3.13 of draft
Loan Agreement). The project would provide the necessary specialized
equipment, the vehicles and the related technical assistance. This technical
assistance would be imparted by the pavement specialists who would
participate in the training program for DGV engineers. At negotiations, the
*        Government confirmed that, no later than July 31, 1983, DGV would establish,
within its Engineering Department, a Pavement Evaluation Group to conduct a
condition survey of existing pavement and to prepare and update the pavement
strengthening and rehabilitation component of DGV's Four-Year Program
(Section 3.12 of draft Loan Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing
36.       The Government is preparing, through a UNDP-financed project,
measures to strengthen and integrate the Government's accounting system.
During 1982, MOPC would benefit from this technical assistance, which should
establish upgraded accounting procedures. The Government confirmed that,
during 1982, MOPC would start implementing the integrated accounting system
on the basis of the ongoing UNDP project (Section 4.02 of Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
The Government also confirmed that, starting with the 1982 accounts, it would
engage independent auditors to audit the accounts of the ongoing Fifth and
Sixth Highway Projects (Loans No. 1529-PA and 1736-PA) and of the proposed
project and the accounts of MOPC's Central Workshop and warehouse. The rele-
vant audit reports should be submitted to the Bank not later than April 30 of
each year, starting in 1983 (Section 4.02 of draft Loan Agreement).
Past and Prospective Bank Assistance for Highways
37.       The Bank has been involved in Paraguay's highway subsector since
1951 when equipment to build feeder roads was financed as part of an agricul-
tural project. Since October 1962, six highway projects have been financed
(total lending about US$103.0 million), four of which have been completed.
When the two ongoing projects are completed, more than 1,200 km of primary
roads will have been upgraded/strengthened and a maintenance capacity will
have been established in DGV. Four agricultural projects have provided about
US$16.0 million for improvement and maintenance of about 1,500 km of feeder
roads. Besides highways and feeder roads, the Bank financed in 1965 a port
project for Asuncion (Loan 437-PA). The preparation of recent highway
projects as well as road components of agricultural and rural development
projects have been financed to a large extent under two Preinvestment
Projects (supported by Credit 587-PA and Loan 1780-PA).
38.       Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) No. 558 of October 30,
1974 and No. 2023 of April 14, 1978 for the Second Road Project (Loan 443-PA
of 1966) and for the Second Road Maintenance Project (Loan 652-PA of 1970),
respectively, concluded that they had met their objectives. The latter
report stressed the importance of pursuing the strengthening of the
maintenance organization for which three steps were required: (a) adequate
supply of spare parts; (b) systematic replacement of equipment; and
(c) strengthening of DGV staff. Action on these three points was initiated
under subsequent projects. The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1059-PA) has
recently been completed but no PPAR is available yet.
39.       Bank involvement in the highway subsector falls into three phases.
The first, extending up to some five years ago, consisted of supporting the
Government's investments in physical facilities, starting by linking together
the key cities and towns. Some preliminary efforts were made on maintenance
and planning of investments. In the second phase the Bank has been
addressing the more difficult institutional issues involving staffing of key
agencies, studies of the construction industry, feeder roads surveys, and the
need to integrate the subsector with efforts in the area of rural and
agricultural development. The proposed project extends this phase toward
more systematic planning of sector investments in the medium term, and to the
increasingly complex task of maintaining the greatly expanded higilway
network. This effort is consistent with Bank assistance to Paraguay in
project preparation, preinvestment planning and resource mobilization but it
is a difficult task in a country with limited tradition of medium-term
planning. A subsequent phase will be based on the results of the current
activity. It is expected that within five years, the country will have
achieved the capacity to produce intermodal transport plans for the medium
term, and identify and prepare high priority projects, closely associated
with agricultural investments. The more complex sectoral issues of road
pricing, user charges and regulation and other broader policy issues
will start to be addressed under the proposed program of OCPIT. The role of
the Bank has been shifting from one of resource transfer to one of providing



- 13 -
guidance and technical assistance to the subsector, as reflected on the
agreements noted above. The Bank's financial contributions have continued to
decrease (in the proposed project the Bank would be financing about half of
the foreign exchange costs), and future involvement should provide an
opportunity to consolidate institutional developments and maintain a dialogue
on critical issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Seventh Highway Project"
(No. 3791b-PA, dated April 19,1982)is being distributed separately. A Loan
*         and Project summary is being placed at the front of this report.  A
supplementary project data sheet is appended as Annex III. The project was
identified by MOPC in late 1980 as having the highest priority within the
highway sub-sector. The northern road (Tacuara -Santa Rosa) crosses the area
of the prospective Eje Norte Rural Development Project, while the southern
road (Villarrica - Numi) adjoins the area of the Caazapa Area Development
Project, recently approved. These projects contain complementary elements
representing an integrated approach to these regions. The bulk of the
engineering and feasibility studies of the roads were carried out under the
Second Road, Fifth Highway Project, and First Preinvestment Studies
Projects. The total project was then prepared in detail by consultants and
was appraised in September 1981. Negotations were held in Washington in
March, 1982; the Paraguayan delegation was led by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta,
President of the Central Bank of Paraguay.
Project Objectives and General Description
41.       The objectives of the project are to:  (a) provide construction and
upgrading of primary roads, thereby encouraging the agricultural development
of the regions concerned and improving connections with Brazil; (b) improve
the Government's capacity to plan for the transport sector through strength-
ening MOPC's technical, planning and managerial capabilities; and
(c) increase the scope and efficiency of national road maintenance
operations. To this end, the project would consist of:
(a) Civil works and related supervision services for: widening of a
*                     60 km section of Route 2 between San Lorenzo and Eusebio Ayala,
including the construction of two additional lanes along 26 km;
upgrading, including paving of a 98-km section of Route 3, between
Tacuara and Santa Rosa; upgrading, including paving of a 28-km
section of Route 8, between Villarrica and Numi.
(b) Upgrading of sectoral planning, and technical and managerial
capabilities through: implementation of an annual planning and
programming system for the transport sector; implementation of
DGV's staffing program; training of DGV's engineers; and
strengthening of OCPIT.
(c) Improvement in maintenance operations through: country-wide
implementation of the maintenance management system; technical
assistance for management of the equipment fleet and the workshops;
and implementation of pavement evaluation methods including the
required equipment.



- 14 -
Implementation of the project is expected to take five years (mid 1982-mid
1987).
(a) Civil Works
42.       The existing asphalt paved San Lorenzo - Eusebio Ayala (64 km) road
will be improved and widened under the proposed project. This road is a part
of the Asuncion - Ciudad Presidente Stroessner Highway (about 376 km) which,
at present, is the most trafficked road of the country. The traffic along
the initial 26 km of the road to be improved (San Lorenzo to San Bernardino
junction) ranges between 5.000 to 8.000 vehicles per day; this section will
be widened to four lanes. From the San Bernardino junction to Eusebio Ayala
(34 km), the existing two lane road would be improved and by-passes would be
built around the towns of Ipacarai and Eusebio Ayala.
43.       The upgrading and paving of the earth surfaced Tacuara-Santa Rosa
(98 km) road constitutes a phase of the staged upgrading of the transport
corridor of Northeast Paraguay. The Northern region of the country is agri-
culturally important, increasingly so as the areas to the south become
settled, and should be integrated with the rest of the country; foreign trade
with and through Brazil is carried out partially through the Coronel Oviedo-
Yby Yau-Pedro Juan Caballero corridor (about 400 km). The road along the
corridor is being progressively upgraded: (a) the section Coronel Oviedo-
Tacuara (about 91 km) is being upgraded with financing under the Fifth High-
way Project; (b) the Tacuara-Santa Rosa section (about 98 km) would be
upgraded under the present project; and (c) the upgrading of the Yby
Yau-Pedro Juan Caballero section (about 100 km) is scheduled to start soon
through a financial agreement between the Governments of Paraguay and
Brazil. This would leave the Santa Rosa-Yby Yau section (about 100 km) to be
upgraded at a later stage. This road would serve the area of the proposed
Eje Norte Rural Development Project, which lies entirely on both sides of the
road north of Tacuara and which includes feeder road expansion/improvements.
DGV would be responsible for their implementation through the Feeder Roads
Unit to ensure necessary coordination of these complementary projects. In
addition the Inter-American Development Bank is considering two projects in
the area which increases the importance of this link.
44.       The Villarrica-Numi (28 km) road is part of the Southern section of
the axis that in the long run will reach Coronel Bogado. The Villarrica-Numi
section is a two lane earth surfaced road which should be upgraded to all
weather standards to, inter alia, serve the surrounding g-ricultural areas.
In particular, in close coordination with the recently approved Caazapa Area
Development Project, the proposed project would complete the link with Route
6 (Encarnacion-Ciudad Presidente Stroessner). Complementary investments are
included in the Caazapa Area Development Project.
(b) Institutional Strengthening & Technical Assistance
45.       As described in detail in Part III, the proposed project would
complement the sectoral objectives of ongoing projects in the following
areas: (i) strengthening of the planning and financial programing process in
the transport sector; (ii) introduction of a four-year highway program as a
vehicle to upgrade the subsector's management; (iii) staffing of DGV



- 15 -
and training of its personnel; (iv) improvement in management of maintenance
and rehabilitation operations; (v) upgrading of the accounting and auditing
procedures; (vi) staffing and technical assistance to OCPIT. In terms of
technical assistance, special attention will be given to the improvement of
management and operations of the San Lorenzo Central Workshop, the District
Workshops and of DGV's equipment fleet. Individual experts would be hired.
On the planning side, the project would finance the purchase of equipment for
pavement evaluation so that DGV can plan in advance its pavement
rehabilitation program.
46.        Supervision of Civil Works.  The civil works component of the pro-
posed project would be supervised by selected consultants, most likely
foreign-local joint ventures, under terms and conditions of contract satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.02(a)(i) of draft Loan Agreement).
47.        Training of DGV's Staff in Highway Engineering.  The proposed
project would include technical assistance to build up, through a functionai
training program, the capacity of DGV's engineers. Local engineering firms
would be invited by DGV to send participants to the training. This component
would be carried out in Paraguay during a period of 18 months, starting in
June 1983 after the planned staffing of DGV had been completed. All courses
would have a strong practical component. The same as the case of specialized
consultants retained for other key elements of the project, the consultants
for this component be retained to prepare and carry out the training program,
would be employed under conditions and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.02(a)(ii) of draft Loan Agreement). It is anticipated that about
40 of DGV's engineers would participate in the program. Emphasis would be on
practical and operational aspects of their tasks, including: (a) maintenance
management system; (b) pavement evaluation and strengthening; (c) feeder road
betterment; (d) equipment management; and (e) subsectoral planning and
programing.
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.        The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties (since
imported goods are exempt such charges), is estimated at about US$124.0
million with a foreign exchange component of US$83.0 million. The Loan and
Project Summary contains a detailed breakdown of project costs. A
contingency allowance of 10% has been included to cover increases in
construction quantities.  About 19% of the project base cost plus physical
contingencies has been allowed for foreign price variations and 40% for local
price variations over the implementation period. For consulting services
(providing training and advice in workshop equipment management), the cost
per man/month range from US$2,500 to US$8,000 for technicians of different
grades among Paraguayan and expatriates. The consulting services for
technical assistance would require a total of 172 man/months. Annual price
increases during the period would be as follows: (i) for local costs: 18%
(1982), 15% (1983), 13% (1984), 12% (1985-1987); for foreign costs 8.5%
(1982), 7.5% (1983-1985) and 6% (1986-87).
49.        The Bank loan would finance US$45.3 million of the foreign exchange
component excluding the front end fee of 0.7 million.  The Government intends
to finance the remaining US$37 million of the foreign exchange cost through
co-financing arrangements.  The prospects for obtaining co-financing are
favorable in view of the country's good creditworthiness. However, in order



- 16 -
not to delay project implementation on account of securing such additional
financing it is recommended that the Bank loan should be made even if the
entire financing is not secured. For this purpose the construction program
would be divided in two parts as follows:  Part A, consisting of the San
Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala (64 km) and the Villarrica-Numi (28 km) sections, and
technical assistance at a total cost of US$64.3 million (US$43.3 million
foreign exchange); and Part B, the Tacuara-Santa Rosa stretch (93 km) at a
total cost of US$59 million. Both parts are self-contained and are justified
on their own. In the unlikely event that co-financing does not materialize,
the Government would have to provide, besides the financing of local costs
(about US$21.0 million), the US$8.0 million necessary to complete the
financial requirements of Part A. The Government will, with Bank assistance,
try to secure such co-financing and review the situation with the Bank by
June 30, 1983 (Section 3.15(c) of draft Loan Agreement).  If by that time,
the co-financing has not been secured, the Government and the Bank would
decide whether (a) to reduce the scope of the project to Part A, thereby
enabling the Bank to cancel US$10.0 million from the loan, or (b) to finance
the local and the remaining foreign component of Parts A and B with the
Government's own resources.
Execution, Procurement and Disbursements
50.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPC
through DGV and OCPIT.  Contracts for civil works would be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement" (March 1977, July 1980 edition). Contractors would be
prequalified and works would be carried out on the basis of unit price con-
tracts. The San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala and Tacuara-Santa Rosa roads would be
subdivided into two bidding sections each; the Villarrica-Numi road would
constitute one bidding section.  Because of the still relatively large size
of the contracts (between close to US$8 and US$18 million) it is likely that
the contracts will be awarded to foreign firms with local firms participating
in joint ventures or as sub-contractors. The purchase of vehicles, office
and training equipment as well as pavement evaluation equipment (totalling
US$100,000) would be on the basis of local procurement procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. These arrangements will not preclude foreign parties
from participating in the bidding process. The project implementation
schedule has been reviewed and confirmed during negotiations, taking into
account the staging referred to in paragraph 49. The closing date would be
December 31, 1987 (Section 2.04 of draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Project expenditures eligible for disbursement of the Bank loan for
Part A of the project would be as follows:  (a) for civil works: 100% of
foreign expenditures and 20% of local expenditures; (b) for supervision of
construction: 100% of foreign expenditures and 30% of local expenditures;
(c) for technical assistance: 100% of foreign expenditures and 10% of local
expenditures; and (d) for the purchase of vehicles, office equipment and
pavement evaluation equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures when imported and
90% of total cost when locally procured.  Disbursements for Part B of the



- 17 -
project would be agreed upon after the co-financing arrangements are
completed. Disbursements of the Bank Loan would be made against normal
documentation.
Economic Evaluation
52.       The economic benefits quantified were:  a) vehicle operating cost
savings resulting from the upgrading of the roads, improved design
characteristics and avoidance of road closures; and b) road maintenance cost
savings. For the San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala road only because of its semi
suburban character, an analysis of congestion was carried out, and time
savings were found to be significant, in addition to the abovementioned
benefits. Benefits would accrue directly to road users but given the high
degree of competition, they are likely to be passed on to a significant
extent in the form of lower prices for inputs/outputs.  The civil work
component of the project as a whole was found to have an economic rate of
return of 20.5% and each component has an economic rate of return clearly
above what is taken to be the opportunity cost of capital (12%) for
Paraguay. Sensitivity analysis showed that, even with the most unfavorable
set of assumptions noted below, for the project section with the lowest
return, and which can bear the lowest increase in costs and decrease in
benefits (Villarrica-Numi), the project, and that section, would still have a
satisfactory rate of return of over 12%: (a) a 41% increase in construction
costs; or (b) a 29% decrease in benefits.
Risks
53.       The road construction component of the project does not present
special risk; engineering is complete and final cost estimates available, and
Paraguay has had a consistently good record in executing similar civil
works. The assumptions underlying the economic evaluation are conservative,
especially concerning benefits due to generated traffic. This, together with
the results of the sensitivity analysis shown above should provide enough
room for contingencies.  Completion of financing arrangements present a
certain element of risk. However, the arrangements proposed for the
finalization of the financing plan, while offering flexibility, would give
the Government and the Bank, the necessary discretion to adjust the project
scope in the unlikely case that co-financing does not materialize. The
annual review of the highway program would also provide an opportunity to
assess overall funding requirements (in particular those related to the
on-going Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects) and compare them with the level of
resources available to MOPC.
54.       A higher element of risk is attached to the institution building
objectives of the project. The key problem of adding more engineers to DGV
has been directly addressed and the undertakings from the Government are
clear with specific timing.  The increase of twenty-three staff would take
place in the early phase of the project. The risk affecting this undertaking
has been reduced as much as possible but remains significant: the
implementation of the new planning process, including the development and
consolidation of the system, would take several years. Inadequate planning
coordination between agencies and lack of continuity in the maintenance area
are the main potential source of difficulties and delays which will have to
be dealt with during supervision.



- 18 -
Reporting and Monitoring
55.       Reports on the various project components would be prepared by
consultants. MOPC would issue quarterly consolidated reports summarizing the
progress of all project components and the financial situation of the
project. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that reports would be
sent to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the quarter
starting with the first quarter of 1983. Monitoring of project implemen-
tation would be carried out through normal supervision and would cover,
besides the progress of civil works, the following indicators:
(a) the implementation of the sectoral planning and programing system
through annual review and exchange of views in July of each year
starting 1982;
(b) DGV's Four-Year Highway Program to be the object of annual review
and exchange of views in July of each year;
(c) the utilization and availability of the equipment fleet and the
procurement, delivery and availability of spare parts; and
(d) the staffing situation of DGV, including the number of engineers
and para-professional personnel at the end of each semester and the
number of engineers trained.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the Loan are being listed in Section III of
Annex III. It would be a condition of disbursement for the US$10 million
assigned to the construction of the Tacuara-Santa Rosa Road that a financing
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, be secured to complete the financing of the
proposed project.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
April 19, 1982
Attachments



- 19 -                                     Annex 1
Page 1
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER.GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             406.8                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      162.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   250.0        390.0    1070.0                  1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        85.0        166.6      251.1                1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1774.0         2301.0    2974.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6           37.1       39.1                  64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATIUN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           5.1
STATIONAKY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                             9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2080
POPULATION DENSITY
*                      PER SQ. KM.                           4.4          5.7       7.3                   34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       12.0         15.0       17.8                  94.5                      133.9
PoPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                           45.9         46.0       44.4                  40.7                       30.1
15-B4 YRS.                           50.8         50.7      52.2                   55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3          3.3        3.4                   4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.6/c        2.6/c      2.9                   2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                2.9          3.1        3.4                   3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.8         40.4       38.1                  31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.0          9.3        7.9                   8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.1        2.7                   2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..      26.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..      15.5
POOL AND NUTRITIOli
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            94.0        103.0     114.0                  108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRLMENTS)                    109.0        121.0     122.0                  107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            71.0         77.0      80.0                   65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         40.0        42.0       46.0                   34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       16.3          9.8        6.9                   7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0           61.2      64.3                   64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..         64.0        ..                   70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         11.0      13.0                   65.7
URBAN                                 ..         22.0      25.0                   79.7
RURAL                                 *-          5.0       5.0                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          6.0      10.0                   59.9
URBAN                                 ..         16.0      28.0                   75.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   30.4
*                     POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1804.7       2249.3    2151.7                 1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       2221.0    2258.0                 1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              430.0        600.9     695.0                  471.2                     262.3
URbAN                                 ..       361.5      282.0                  558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                 ..      5506.3    6260.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..                    ..                       18.2
tlOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5/d        5.4/e
URBAN                                5.3S/d       5. o7      ..
RURAL                                5.71/d       5. 7/ce
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6/d        2.4/e
URBAN                                2. 67d       1. 77      ..
RURAL                                 ..          3.1/e       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               13.0/d       17.5/e
URBAN                               33.2/(d     41.5/e        .
RUKRA                                1. 27T       1.27       ..



-S n
- S.,., -
Annex 1
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9GS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MDST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MI2DLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  98.0         88.0/f    85.0/f                 101.7                     105.9
MALE                  105.0         91.07?    87.07?                 103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                90.0         86.07?    84.07?                 101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   11.0         17.0       25.0                   35.3                      66.3
MALE                   11.0         17.0       26.0                   34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                 11.0         17.0      25.0                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (l OF SECONDARY)   7.0             6.0        6.0                   30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO                                                                                                                                            ^
PRIMARY                             28.0          28.0      28.0                   29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                             8.0         11.0       12.0                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          75.0/d       81.1       84.0                   80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0          6.6        7.0                  42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          82.4          73.4      66.7                  215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         14.8      19.6                   89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         43.0       38.9                   62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..                    3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        576.7         728.0     955.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.7          21.4      23.3                   22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0         52.6       49.5                   35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0          19.2      19.4                   23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  32.5         31.6       32.1                   31.8                      42.3
MALE                                   51.7         50.0       49.3                  49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                 13.9         13.5       15.0                   14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.6        1.5                    1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      260.0                  513.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      260.0                  362.2                     385.1                                            1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       19.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      50.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to migration of Paraguayans to neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e 1972;  /f Net enrollment.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates, to be shown in the 1981
World Bank Atlas, are $1,340 (at 1979-80 prices) and 3062 thousand, respectively.
May, 1981



-2 1-
Annex I
nras: Alt~.houghth  data are leave fros san.g rlyjudgedrh  aos  auhrttv   .a  r.liablg. it *held als  ho  -ta  that thysy  ot be intar-
natinall  cosarais ... of thet lat  of ..radarded dafi~tutoo   and ton-pt  used by differn   tooreai  thete   abs daa                           "adtass   os
The  sfarar..  grops are 1.1)th  ease. .ountry group of abs aubj.it conr   d   2     oor   ru    iha-..    ibrvrg    uusta   b   asr   rv
of thesbjec   onr   atetfr'uitlSrlsil   aotr    ropatr   tidi   nosiofhAri   n  tttdd-lha    is  hass  beaus  of et gna
ot-Iltunalffiniaia.).  i  h   sasi  gru   aatsaaaa    re t pupelatio    1agina  arit.Ati- saut  fo  nach tl i-tr  n-so    nlt                               ae
aoit   f the -our-sit a. rooP hoe data for that hedicao.           tnstacnig   ftnnissn   rhoinicaor  idipedaatth  aa                                 iliy ofdt
Int  tIl(toad5M )PuttitrrIuysiet t                                                                                                  ota.cohac  an  rua    b- Pplta           ttl
tlaa- ocii        erasaecoytlglnda                    n   nan    ae.uba,adrrl)dnddb i                                               btar. repttur  nast of opae  bad
tarioltura   - iaisat  of bartrutu.a aris:     tprrl   rprannl                             nial   tpbt and pirat   genna  ad   pec.a Lndhsia   a   e
i  -.P.an  1979          k1  .   ic..9t..                     E.1;17 data.                     sadIialti aaitct  nurse. Pidauta  brr         l  bho  ufrin-ei
P-   -i-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~dtutad  provt. itde allstd   raEs  fsdtata.it1.Pr  nte
1rioiiy  toblgaao   oisqiaetprcpt;  Oi   91 od99                                                   etr.ia  si 19spiald  re inlude  ony  underli, tuba.  b N
Pu    'I"'A     I ......-i 01011. itt.iyLCi
ssotgccuniciee; IbcbIi. 107601,1arc 197997 daedh ouaodtt  rts  oa   ups.
PoueitPcaioauaaeruhro   esn   a   osttl.ubn   n   ua       reg    a
Peultoninyarlii- unei  uoltin   rjeton  aehaedc  1ffhr  f  asos  a  co  i  aluranPndrua oLatd ntatea
PPLTIONa  pouainbAgNndsaDdtaysralt   n   eai t VItaeS AneSl lags. ceap-aritcrly.  th.iliaga soluent                                                         ct-    di-rau.o,an
tt1Projection  paidoY- nor  usndortlo  rata.  Lopta  of60  19r0e  lde9l        9 aHO-USNoccpie  Iarra.
hiu     cunrya  carsente   oryt hestie   oi_nitaofsdtaly                                    IOuTl
adfrtliyted  todpo -etirpopfe.                                                                        Idute   tolsc  gal L
itarinacivotuacl     L-icsta   p.llcar  icla ton there:L1 is  t d frntt snclriay  co   total, sle and  -esi                        b-ros    nosi  sale  And-
satt cita        I nT      d i   cheedcliscr   eti iutaredelnec                                 riay   coo-geppuetoa  trapyinide   hidenaedvi
ti   elre. alna   fuitnctptdd               in  ae   be   ahgIa,irper,u  ajee   irdfero   sgroo   rLaydosia   o
eaisac    onf rhot- hateofthe projecte  cytheciertetic  of the pocaiur:                          st.r so1- p aae  ao   or- shv  th1e- officil school d ag .
vevtleve.edcto rquese  Ist  fu  y                                                                                                             gr fapoe  prtisery  pmanrution
tir   ban beet reucbed.                                                                         usualip- of 1- 2 - cc 1)d year  v-  a as; cotta pod  r - useee  aae
oiy; 19h1     .tt. 17   r  197 .daa   Y         "rIlisahorc,au   crsat.an  ecocir-fra    stuen.  anotiad  i
aihn; lithf -91.  ad17dta. lt                                                                 Adl  ieayraejthnf- ieaeeut  (abl  to read en                              ris
_oultio  irott date,   jifcar - oal-Atnl  rothtes  c                   el.nl-asperetae -                                otl   -dut  ople ion age   15hyeats end mae
Prltih     reidaejecoc      ra :I           auu.til graIt  retrydlofd ucdifl ocpu-         Chcept-ttd-li
LIvoas     , Oeoodutio   rt-overag   ruhe  of,I. lag terset  -na   il  sci            tueea  rceves  ncu-ia sd  ino     .VI yer.ehn  ega -an   of rdio
Psiy    -ooi -L oeir,dta  rosns      uulr-hto   cetr                                         hcieerttosn  Lveletot)-,Lf rept-er  forbri-                         as  t
Y..,lv-trninatysaplrs      . j Lrcu  -fcrridnonTh.   )- h.c. taecsac-dticounriesalin!                                   rt  ehraicairfi. senenastineffer..Plu
soi- o  ch.. -ert  ea(tu  pas     teehirhvr-l  eviestohoa.c.  CiycculatlocI (tar. thusn  cnula-ird)-  tw   h   w rgs111
all srcied  ro..   it  en   u   ru.cltc   i'al   ese   neatiappr   eta    saprnia
P.l  q.   Kid-Y... p ...  q.-   kii-t., I100 h.cohll-attoV   dei cte   ftrlyt  raruding geea  none. It iis-onidet
191cf rtlIitic  edal0Pi  eppeaceat leae  four tones- a                                                                                                cape    ..rdk.
Inde ofPoolProuctct yt lcit  jlhht-7-li      ndeo  pet vs             d iY iul          Cis  uolkindnecrCtt                          ea      edo   h   ubtu
trdolon. of11  all0 fodcsuiie            tdtlretuete                    edndtretsd 197urieg. the. past,. lacuda  ad.. e-aT.,I to    sto  -rin                                L
tatiool  veree prduce   price neg";It-,17.od17  di                                      oa   ao  ycajhuad)     toalal  acIe pesn,inldn
Per oniasol   frlces(ecn   fruioers       optdPo                                               te   fortes- and. ftsu       hut ru lulto housn           ..e . studetset.
pedp.b ilale  supplies 19upri0r Icstc   rdol9.lprt  ea                                 o   epeai;79I   977n   97   aa
tacte.en .cares. stud. - a  eupl ir --Iu Is- anma teed,. seed.,                           ONUPeste  nereof-rsl   ao   oc   .pcecg   fitllbrfe
f.na  av  sat5inure  by60PuP Ised  on0- thscoie       'teirtra2ct-felgC   eonneo   oa   lao:oce-9P 17   n  17   aa
an   e   itriujvof6plcvc    taluta1  ereiiraaetodhlrrctp    ne-al ea  pretg  oftoa  lao .                                                                  o. e. L hi
hou 9hl 6leel 1970-tt, 1979.ad17 d      ata.                                              7lbad-   1979-eta
Pac aoIa...      v  iorit            -Iua   IIf da)-Ptecooetoprcpls                             ercptocaijacec -htI   i         toal  sale,.adf-l    -              Parirp 4iano
netsiply  f fnd   rla.d NeL   uopc   oo  sdinde  ahoos.c  is-                          aciiyrer   r   o-ue   s  oa,sle   n   asl  eo   fare a
Ll ilynn-ce  -ftly oefi-y-e  p-orcic ..dagL.y 1960,g1970cfecd 1979                             190  1970- oalOlhTta            Th...c bae          -tlL'ferlcb-p-tterie
pus .rti,ofsih1.rv.aol   aala  protriir.-Tdearenand-                                      csf lbcingagese  nauth         eo  the  -upldtn..edln   ietad
acua7     uoel  a  auergffo   hour-    ycpsaIp  utivcaghidrovoiclfrdeporti   -rti  o  pp                                                  dat n       fyer15ed   h tied ns1
dorI  oo  Srve;  96-6. 171an  177  at.                                 o    hsioa  laho   forte.L.   ..I
Chill far 1-id P utad-ity -i  (coo! ti96od I-  kcl datl  yr P              i,u-atd .nit         Pvrou  oP. ~      -di-tPCua cioth.  - ar a-        cld - ".   rcetoedb tbp  fih
ogsd group     .1-4pas  00d- cldtic l P chtae  ru,fo   otleruit  ot                               prr, -Idchast R1 yph       n -, pooldrat  d0 per-et. ed proree  ci-p.r
ari. ir dnce fcolit- r-ihee;19, 1071 u6c 1979tl 1,1 - lLo. p icurtid...M..i.1
(fO i.O                                                                                      ItOT-1-11)lrtp
ofae e.     hoen   -ivi birth.                                         dheo.uc  p I'dy Iccln  d1.)    ... ldi ioyjtlvln  it      lio
he   iprls  ttl   racbv oa             l ac   raooie  ro c-    . safe.                   efceirL
pacraga  f -btrepo  ice 1-puluc-oce.  Igcs60i...cnreaupub97ic
reeosld creo-ldilytilyeuteiicnrtrsotchctrlduoccu-d                                                                                        getPprluicfvtvsd -o11hur'1 holt
tIe colectit and  iepunl. 01c  ci uPtou  d.ceet 20Reeu   f-t . of                   19.eacuo..e-  h..ot.ad Scl caeiie
lo   oealair 6'tao 19(1.    d  11  d:
Popoailo cr  rjcooit - op~ucio  iccledtc  ueia  oProoc icvo cyso
otuce voeliflcd  fvveonadtcul to too I at otccettOt p lace).P `lci
Pcrulstioo crc Nucelcu Pataov - Populac Oct dividec by ouoiecciprootccic0~~~~~~~~-fl i.g  g--                                  I
sole ~        ~           ~           I        " d3~ an-eml   rsuicuae.pet olvue



- 22 -
ECOiNOMIC INDICATORS                                                             ANNEX I
Popufation:      3.3 million 11981)/1                                                                                                                    pop 4
GNP Per Capita: USSI,340 (1980)   /1
Indicator                                                Amount                 Average Annual Increase (S)          Share of GiP at Market Prices IS)
(million USS current)          (at constant 1977 prices)                   (at current prices)
1980-    1981 /1          1965-70   1970-75   1975-80         1965    1970    1975    1980    1981
National Accounts
Gross domestic product (At factor cost)             3,811   4,131               4.4        6.2       10.4        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                       1,123   1,342               1.6        6.1        7.2         36.7    32.1    36.9    30.9    29.5
industry                                           876      911               6.0       6.5        15.3         18.1    19.6    19.6    22.7    23.0
Services                                         1,812   1,878                6.1       6.2        10.6         45.2    48.3    43.5    46.4    47.5
Consumption                                         3,055   3,301               4.1        3.7       10.2         86.1    85.7    76.7    78.0    78.0
Gross Investment                                    1,038   1,218               6.0       15.8       20.0         15.1    14.7    24.1    28.8    29.0
Exports of goods and NFS                              701     672               3.8       12.1       12.2         16.1    16.0    16.8    20.0    16.0
Inports of goods and NFS                           1,265   1,325                3.9       5.8        19.8         17.2    16.4    17.6    33.0    32.0
Gross domestic savings                                473     555               5.3       25.0        11.4        13.9    14.3    23.3    20.0    20.0
Amount                Average Annual Increase I1)        Convosiltion of iMerchandise Trade 1%)
(million USS current)          (lt constant 1977 pricesl                (at current prices)
1 980    1981 /1          1965-70   1970-75   1975-80         1965    1970    1975    1980    1981
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports                                   630     598               3.6       16.4        9.6
Merchandise Inports                                 1,087   1,030               5.3        6.0       19.9        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Rood                                                24       33              -1.7     -10.7        19.4         10.9     8.2      3.3     2.2     3.2
~et~-oleum                                         130      95              11.0        1.9        7.5          8.5     8.1    14.4    11.9      9.2
9e-u nery and equipment                              BO     173              -0.5       14.0       13.8         26.7    24.2    22.2      7.4    16.8
Ot1-en                                              853     729               3.0       19.0       20.1         53.9    59.5    60.1    78.5    70.8
1975       1976        1977      1978         1979        1980       1981
Prices and Terms of Trade
GP deflator (1977=1001                             87.2       91.6       100.0       110.4      133.1       155.5      160.0
Exchange rate (G/USS)                             126.0      126.0       126.0      126.0       126.0       126.0      126.0
Export prlo lndgw                                  72.3       7i.5       100.0       9!.4        96.1       168.4      101.9
lIport pric   "de.a                               fi.3        98.4       "04 .      If_3.       12.*      1f.1         1i-
Term  of trade lndw                                73.6       81.7       100.0        66.5       77.9        76.9       85.6
As 5 of GDP
(at current prIces)
1965       1970        1975      1979         1980        198)
Public Finance (Central Administration)
Current revenue                                    10.4       11.7         9.4       10.1         9.4         9.6
Current expenditure                                 8.4       10.2         7.6        6.7         7.6         8.3
Surplus (xi or deficit (-I                          1.9        1.5         1.8        3.4         1.6         1.3
Capital expenditure                                 1.7        1.9         2.3        2.8         2.3         2.5
Flnancing (net)                                    -0.2        0.4         0.5       -0.6         1.1         2.1
1965-70     1970-75    1975-80    1980-85
Other Indicators
GNP growth rate (Sl                                 4.4        7.0        10.5        9.3
GNP per capita gromth rate 'S1                      1.7        4.1         7.6        6.4
ICOR                                               2.9         2.4        2.4         3.0
Marginal savings nate                              27.3       53.0        24.5       23.4
Iport ninsticlty                                   1.1        1.0         1.9        1.8
/i Estinatv.
'Current guaranles converted at 146.1 per OS$, based on estIlating that 60S and 40S transactions take piace
in the free and the official exchange markets. respectively.
Sources; Centrnl Bank of Paraguay, IMF and nisslon estimates.
April 9, 1982



- 23 -
8ALANCE OrF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                             Annex A
(mil1lon US$ at current prices)                                                     Page 5
Populatlon:      3.3 miltion (19i1) /1
GNP Per Capita: USS1,340 (1980)   /1
Actual                             /I                      Projected
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983       1984      1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods and services                -172.6    -190.8    -343.6    -434.4    -565          -663       -634       -629       -601      -539
Exports of goods and services                   237.0      409.2      503.3      661.1     778        762      1,253      1,541     1,895      2,331
Imports of goods and servlces                   409.6      600.0     846.9   1,095.5   1,343        1,425      1,887     2,170      2,496      2,870
Net transfers                                        4.2        1.2       5.8        7.3       14         16        17         19         21        23
Current account balance                          -168.4    -189.6    -337.8    -427.2    -551          -647       -617       -610       -580      -516
Direct private Investment                           11.4      17.0       21.9       51.9       30        65         69         76         84        92
M & LT loans net                                   64.0      121.9      134.9      111.0      123        109       158        250        366       448
Official                                         50.0       47.6       89.6       38.9      110        99         68         76         75        80
Private                                          14.0       74.3       45.3       72.1      13         10         90        173       292        368
Other capital                                     143.1      159.6      349.7      432.8     565        518        350        300       200        100
Change In reserves I- = Increase)                  -50.1    -108.9    -168.7    -168.5    -167          -45         40        -16        -70      -124
Internatlonal reserves                            161.5      269.4      438.1     606.6      774        819        779       795        865        989
Reserves  s months of imports                        4.7        5.4       6.2        6.6        6.9       6.9        5.0        4.4        4.2       4.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (Public & Private)
Gross Disbursements                                 74.0     142.1      163.5      216.5      206.0
Concesslonal loans                               30.7       26.9       38.3       21.1       34.0
DAC                                            10.4        4.6       28.4        5.8       -
IDA                                             2.6        5.2       5.3        3.6        2.9
*Cther                                         17.7       17.1        4.6       11.7      31.1
NJon-concessional loans                          43.3      112.2      108.7      136.1     111.5
.ficial export credits                          9.5        8.1      10.1       29.2       16.5
IBRD                                            4.6        6.9       7.8       16.4       30.1
Other multilateral                              -          -          9.6        4.3       4.1
Priv-te                                        dv.2       97.3       81.2      86.2       60.8
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                281.2      394.7      543.1     698.6      818.1
Official                                    236.8      335.2     457.3      560.5      667.3
Private                                      44.4       59.5       85.8     138.1      150.8
Undisbursed debt                              181.1      150.2      215.7     489.0      414.4
Debt service
Total service payments                         31.3       42.6       50.4      93.7      134.1
Interest                                      9.6      12.7       18.2       34.7       51.0
Payments as % exports                          13.2       10.4        9.9       14.2      17.2
Average Interest rate on new loans (S)
Official                                        5.6        6.6        6.6        6.5       5.6
Private                                         8.4        7.5       10.3        8.4      12.6
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                       23.7       20.2       23.3       21.1      26.2
Private                                         7.0        7.2        8.4       10.7      12.6
As S of Debt Outstanding
at End of Post Recent
Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                    71.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                   89.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                   6.7
/1  Estimate.                                                                                                                           April 9, 1982



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (March 31, 1982)
-------(US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Nine loans and seven credits fully disbursed 1/                50.3   45.8
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies          -    4.0          .8
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education              8.0       -         .3
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II        22.0       -       15.6
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit           10.0       -         .9
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply           6.0       -        1.5
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                  33.0       -        4.5
1674           1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0      -        8.1
1736           1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                 39.0       -       32.4
1780           1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0      -        5.0
1866           1980    Paraguay   Industrial Credit and
Regional Development   31.0        -       30.7
1979           1981    Paraguay   Livestock Development    30.0          -       21.5
1992           1981    Paraguay   Rural Primary Education  17.0          -       16.9
2014           1981    Paraguay   Second Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation  11.8        -       11.8
2087 2/        1982    Paraguay   Caazapa Area Development 31.0                  31.0
Total (net of cancellations)                  319.1.  49.8       181.0
of which has been repaid                     15.5    1.8
Total now outstanding                         303.6   48.0
Amount sold                         1.3
of which has been repaid         1.3          0.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    303.6   48.0
Total undisbursed                                                181.0
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Not effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - March 31, 1982
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                       Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing          4.4       1.0       5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)       Hotel Development        0.9       0.3       1.2
1982    Golondrina S.A.             Agricultural
Development          5.0       2.0       7.0
Total gross commitments                             10.3      3.3      13.6
Cancellation, sales, repayment
and terminations                                  (4.4)    (1.0)    (5.4)
Net held by IFC                                      5.9      2.3       8.2
Total undisbursed                                    5.3      2.0       7.3



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1982
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. 1/
The entire amount of the credit is now committed.  Substantial
progress on the institution building side has been accomplished on the basis
of experience gained under this project, which led to the preparation of
a second operation, now under execution.  The closing date was extended a
second time from December 31, 1981 to September 30, 1982 to permit making
final payments to study consultants and to complete the technical assistance
program provided to the government.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983).
The project is progressing well even though disbursements for subloans
and infrastructure are behind schedule. With regard to the subloans the 1981
lending season was hampered by the participation of the extension/credit agents
in the agricultural census. This work was required to be carried out in August
and September which are also the peak months for loan request applications. The
infrastructure disbursements will be accelerated since construction of the
community centers, health facilities and the first section of the all weather
road have begun. Advertisments for bids for the second and third stages of the
all weather road were published in December 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, which was achieved in part due to a reduction in
operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a capital contribution of
0 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan.  BNF's debt recovery
efforts have been contributing lately in decreasing the portfolio arrears.
Institutional improvements, on the other hand, a UNDP-financed Bank-executed
technical assistance program was instrumental in accelerating institutional
improvements. Regarding the financing of industrial projects under the
Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 50 subprojects thus comitting the
bulk of the loan; disbursements, however, were running somewhat behind
schedule.
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
Project execution is proceding at a good rate. It is estimated that
the project will be completed by September 1982. Disbursements, as of March 31,
1982, amounted to US$4.5 million. The new project (under Loan 2014-PA) has
been designed so as to cover new areas with both water supply and sanitary
facilities; special emphasis is being placed on the southeastern part of the
country.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route I (Paraguari-Encarnacion, 303 km),
on the basis of a revised pavement design, were completed in July 1981.
Construction works on the Coronel Oviedo-San Estanislao road are well underway;
completion is scheduled for late 1982.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
Three of the components of this project have been completed. Fondo
Ganadero has disbursed all funds, the wholesale market has been completed and
is functioning. Final disbursement request should be received soon. The
Agricultural Census has been carried out and data are being analyzed. In each
of these components the technical assistance programs financed with loan
funds and UNDP funds are continuing. The small farm component is behind
schedule but a full complement of extension and credit agents is in the field.
Construction of feeder roads should begin in March 1982; meanwhile maintenance
of existing roads is being carried out.



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Government has engaged consultants to assist the establishment
of the Feeder Roads Unit; the Unit was officially created in late November 1981.
The Government's Feeder Roads Coordinating Committee has been established by
Decree. The designs of feeder roads will be carried out by consultants to be
engaged shortly. Contracts have been awarded for the construction of the two
sections of Route 6; works are well underway.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness:  September 19, 1980;              A
Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
The key technical assistance advisors located in various sectoral
ministries and agencies, and in the new Financial Programming Division of the
Ministry of Finance, have been appointed, and are well advanced with their work.
While preinvestment studies involving over 25% of the funds under the project
have been approved by the government for financing under this loan, only one
subproject has reached the stage of execution so far.
Loan 1866-PA   Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, June 26, 1980; (Date of Effectiveness: June 1,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985).
Execution of the project has been slow. Commitment and disbursement
are behind schedule. There are now much better prospects that the Fondo
Especial de Desarrollo (FED) component will be implemented effectively. FED
expects to meet the corresponding conditions of disbursement within the next
1-2 months. BNF intends to increase the use of Bank resources during 1982.
BNF's institutional development process has advanced satisfactorily. While the
different components for its institutional development are at different imple-
mentation stages, there is a positive attitude and decision in BNF to implement
several changes and recommendations. To obtain this, BNF has established a
second-stage technical assistance program (building up on the technical assistance
hitherto provided under a UNDP Program) financed with own funds. BNF also has
advanced satisfactorily in improving its debt collection efforts. Regarding the
management training component, Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP)
is initiating the corresponding activities. The feasibility study for the
industrial estate in Encarnacion, a feature of the project's regional emphasis
on the south-eastern area of the country, is well underway.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 1979-PA    Livestock Development Credit, US$30.0 million, June 11, 1981;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 4, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985).
This loan was made effective on December 4, 1981. The loan is being
committed at a faster rate than anticipated at the time of appraisal; the strong
demand for credit affects all three categories (large, medium and small-
scale) of producer, and the project's extension component for small scale
producers is being executed. The cofinancing loan from the OPEC Fund has
recently become effective.
Loan 1992-PA   Rural Primary Education Project (IV), US$17.0 million, July 16,
1981; (Date of Effectiveness:  December 2, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on December 2, 1981. Project prepara-
tion is fully completed, including final designs of schools, equipment and
furniture lists, selection of consultants and counterpart staff. Bid documents,
and local funds are available. During the first week of January 1982, the
Project Implementation Unit will process bidding for the procurement of equipment
for existing rural schools and for the construction of new ones. No implementa-
tion problems are foreseen to date.
Loan 2014-PA   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, US$11.8 million,
July 16, 1981; (Date of Effectiveness: February 10, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on February 10, 1982.
Loan 2087-PA   Caazapa Area Development Project, US$31 million, February 25, 1982;
(Date of effectiveness:  no later than June 26, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988).
This loan is not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  About 12 months                                   A
(b) Preparation by: Ministry of Public Works and Communications and
consultants partly financed under Credit 587-PA (First
Preinvestment Studies Project)
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: Early 1980
(d) First Bank Mission: October 1980
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: September 1981
(f)  Negotiations:   March 1982
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
Detailed engineering for the project roads has been completed. The
highway sector maintenance budget and counterpart funds for the
project during the project's execution period have been agreed
upon.
Section III - Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) It would be a condition of disbursement for the US$10 million from
the loan assigned to the construction of the Tacuara-Santa Rosa
road that a financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to complete
the financing of this project has been secured (see (n) below);
(b) Completion of the equipment overhaul program by mid-1983 (para 34);
(c) Submission to the Bank of a road betterment subprogram for comments
not later than April 30, starting from 1983 (para 32);
(d) Preparation of annual Four-Year Transport Plans; such plans to be
sent to the Bank for comments no later than July 31 of each year
(para 29);



- 31 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Review and approval of the 1983-i984 program of activities of
OCPIT with the understanding that subsequent programs would be
discussed with the Bank (para 30);
(f) Sending to the Bank for review, not later than December 31, 1982,
the OCPIT/Agencies monitoring system for the Four-Year Plans
(para 30);
(g) Preparation of Four-Year Highway Programs starting from 1983; such
programs to be sent to the Bank for review by July 31 of each year
(para 29);
(h) Review of the DGV staffing schedule and the assumptions under which
it was prepared and review annually, not later than July 31 of each
year starting in 1983, of DGV's staffing situation (para 31);
(i) Updating, implementing and monitoring of the maintenance program
and providing the yearly budgetary allocations for the proper
maintenance of the road network (para 32);
(j) Continuing to provide funds for timely supply of spare parts and
implementing, not later than July 31, 1983, a system for the
control of such parts (para 33);
(k) Implementing a staffing program for the San Lorenzo workshop not
later than July 31, 1983 (para 33);
(1) Continuing to provide funds for renewal of equipment and submitting
to the Bank, not later than July 31 each year, starting from 1983,
an equipment renewal program (para 34);
(m) Preparation of a tentative list of roads to be surveyed annually
for possible rehabilitation and/or strengthening (para 35);
(n) Expediting the search for co-financing and keeping the Bank
informed of the progress achieved; reviewing the proposed arrange-
ment with the Bank by June 30, 1983. If co-financing does not
materialize, the Government would provide for the financing of
local cost (US$21.0 million) for Part A, plus US$8.0 million to
complete the foreign exchange component of such Part (para 51).



A~



.                                    SE t'                                         57                           CABALLERO       56                                              I                                 
t  RZI                                                               PuErto          // Sot RoCo                         56 
$OLIVIA   )                                                                     c
('                                                                                    Sor Pero     C__ e
r!      't'}  {IJ~*ii                                                    PUERTOe R6 SARIS     rul EhizordoAo.,oul                                                                    To Sot  / Sr6/A,P  R
0URUGUAY                                                                                  S., 0t.6/
AWGENTINA_
To MOOBOoI ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ FM
,,1 ..ArE - ..A`5Y  y E                                        at..os
T.    JY       gu rd                                               C-X ;  .| B-CoucuIT;
f  VILLA HocAYmESa) ,_-  F toodopNN                                  F/ec,/9}RIoA )oe,-   y
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARGcT  I4                                 N AltO, 9j S  T obOt  ,    hi  -  oait \pt
ASUNCI                      SoBt oA,' l                                                                                      _ - -2
3 Vde Ne6mbuc  SAN JUAN          CAACJS E )~         oF                                                                                 I HER_ANDARIA   /  
V*                                                                  RONEL   VIEDO                                                                            tpu Ll-  (nb os Cmbu  -  I  PIoPVod
A,'CRGtErNTINA                                                     QJL                                                           A.1..................... =rVirrso1lrA,eM>PSDSt-- HRHHVtgo SoR5
Yoquood                            SOo0Q /      -      -                           -               ' -         -- CuoIe    p-oj--ec
iu~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Nue                                                            VOlOrtuuHO        0
. f                                   i                                                                       Sitremous sufeced  ood                   F FTH  HICorooPROJ o      (L\\n 5ZytiPI\
A  ~            ~                 /                                                                                                                    O~~TOuAA d
v t  Th 5 m5e h@5        lAbthcr                              /      /oS hr oh/
Sanu-, BtfiItl. a
PARAGUAY
AOL    5                                              I ~~ p,~~Op~    .\,PCOPOP.-6IHIGHWAY  NETWORK
ILAR  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                       I/A0I  000-0
T. R-               dig-                P-R       f         FRT  PHP.PG             floo A0EAAAtZ  A
Xf $  vl.ltddave tnd roattlharss snv  o   20       40        er,      RO                 ;      M~~~~~~~AL   COll rom   HAtto/                         COr0trucl eqoeiq o dcntrci. 
PASO                                                                                                                                                             AISI-eI,tSeftnrvecdDosemnr  rl.OfETES  - -    Inernflooi bupdriesSEVNT BWAY  PROdECT   000
I/aS    ort                                                                                             s.tR                                    ECOND  HI0  oPA _
- .~~~~~~~~~~~~ LOSO. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feaootiolity atAditogd.                                               oolo  OO00A
(5CORRIENTES                                                                                                                                                     THIRDCI   t,AtIALS PSOAO-/  110 HIAHWAY PRF Looo 65S~PuS
A  F)  FTOIT  IA    A                                   '*-**-'                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESSoTCHKGVAY PROYJECTj/Oor 49OSE/W
IAAo,o 000 Oortoo,moO,oAoo IA,                                                         SoOuOI/rtOtA tortoroort~-.  -fme 000<0    FIFTH  AIGHWo2Y RQ)IlU(loan II5Z9-_PA
W~~~~~,ld  . ......                                                      T-IS                                                  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-mOAt,uEiEr Art,mId toou
0O0 -,0ir00O,S   m,                     r                I        5                                  ----0--lAS                                           UITSi~YIAfU L...I o  17 3&.-PA)
VOR0000iOOOAoo,O~~~O.,o,F)Io                         R~ILES                                  -- Rvr
. ...... . .                                                                                                                                                                          -fm Coorutfo  oue H
A0002,-r,ro- 0rrFkoprroiv  ,.dc0,W o,fL
1-1-1 - Ily                                     ~~~~~~~~~KILOM(ETERS                                                                        PFT HIRAPRJC
OOOLLO000LOO/SOLOOO.O,p,ooo                                                            IOIOOOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,t-fiAoOi SoVNurtHidor AOEC



