Document of
The World Banik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
40g 4»y-CC
Report No. P-4405-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$31 MILLION
TO THE
GUAYAQUIL MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY COMPANY (EMAP-G)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SECOND CUAYAQUIL
AND CUAYAS PROVINCE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Sucre (Sl.)
Annual Average 1985 US$1 - S/.91.5
Since August 14, 1986, the Ecusdorian cirrency has been
floating. As of October 15 the rate was as shln below.
US$1     = S/.140.0
S/.1     =US$.0.007
SJ.1,OO = US$7.1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BEDE   - Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador
(Ecuadorian Development Bank)
CDC    - Commonvealth Development Corporation
CG     - Contraloria General de la Nacion
(National Controller General)
CONADE - Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
EMA-G  - Empresa Municipal de Alcantarillado de Guayaquil
(Guayaquil Municipal Sewage Company)
EMAP-G - Empresa Municipal de Agua Potable de Guayaquil
(Guayaquil Municipal Water Supply Company)
IDB    - Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(Inter-American Development Bank)
IEOS   - Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
(National Sanitary Works Institute)
INERHI - Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos
(Ecuadorian Water Resources Institute)
NDP    - Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Plan)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
SECOND GUAYAQUIL AD GUAYAS PROVINCE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AM A PRoCr smMAR
Borrower:        Guayaquil Municipal Water Supply Company (EMAP-G).
Guarantor:        The Republic of Ecuador.
impunt:           US$31 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate and charges.
Cc-Pinancler:    Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) is expected to
provide the equivalent of US$8 m'llion in joint
cofinancing on terms similar to the proposed Bank loan.
Project
Description:      The project would support the Government's service goals
in the sector, improve water supply service levels in
Ecuador's largest city and strengthen EMAP-G by improving
its managerial, technical and financial performance. It
would include components to: (i) expand the water supply
system; (ii) improve EMAP-G's operations; and (iii)
undertake studies related to future system expansion,
rehabilitation and organization.
Benefits:         The project would directly benefit about 0.9 million
people, of which 68 percent would be the urban poor.
Furthermore, the project would help improve EMAP-G's
efficiency and financial performance.
Risks:           There is little risk regarding physical works.  There is
some risk, however, that the management stability and
local political support needed to sustain the financial
and operating improvement programs cannot be maintained.
Moreover, EMAP-G's financial improvement is based on
satisfactory tariffs, on a major connection program and
operational improvements. Several actions have already
been taken or are proposed to meet these risks: EMAP-G
has been authorized to implement a satisfactory program of
tariff hikes and increased service charges effective
January 1, 1987; EMAP-G has agreed on a rolling action
plan to improve its performance based on concrete targets;
EHAP-G's Board has approved an operating improvement
program; a pragmatic technical cooperation program has
been designed; and a revolving fund to assist in financing
house connections would be established, thereby making
water sales targets more feasible. In addition, operating
and financial targets are realistic and within EMAP-G's
capability.
libis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by Tecipients only in the perrormlance
of their oSSfcial duties. Its contents miy not otherwj5e be di-mcloseed without Wo.f!d Ban!: authcor;=ion.



Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign    Total
--- US$ mllion-
Expansion of Water Supply System               13.82       17.20       31.02
Operation Improvement and Training              1.32        6.95        8.27
Studies                                         0.14        0.51        0.65
Base Cost (December 1986 prices)               15.28       24.66       39.94
Physical Contingencies                          2.21        1.47        3.68
Price Contingencies                             1.10        1.46        2.56
Total Project Cost                             18.59       27.59       46.18
Interest during Grace Period
-Bank Financed                                  -          3.30        3.30
-CDC Financed                                   -          1.00        1.00
Total Financing Required                       18.59       31.89       50.48 1/
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign    Total
US$ million
Bank                                            5.61       25.39       31.00
CDC                                             1.50        6.50        8.00
EMAP-G                                         11.48         -         11.48
Total                                          18.59       31.89       50.48
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  1995
--------------------------US$ million-----
Annual         0.80   6.01   7.56   6.49   3.80   2.46   2.03   1.31  0.54
Cumulative    0.80   6.81  14.37  20.86  24.66  27.12  29.15  30.46 31.00
Rate of Return:        About 14%
1/ The tax content of this project would be negligible.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
REPORT AND RECOUMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
KHAP-G FOR A SECOND GUAYAQUIL
AND GUAYAS PROVINCE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Guayaquil Municipal Water Supply Company (EHAP-G), with the guarantee
uo the Republic of Ecuador, for the equivalent of US$31 million, to help
finance a second water supply project for Guay'quil and Guayas province. The
loan would be repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate and charges. In addition to the
proposed Bank loan, EMAP-G is expecting cofinancing from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) for the equivalent of US$8 million. It is
expected that such cofinancing would bear terms similar to those of the Bank
loan, and would be guaranteed by the Republic of Ecuador.
PART I - TEE ECONOMY I/
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 567b-E&
entitled "Ecuador: Public Investment Reviewv was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 16, 1955. An earlier general economic
memorandum, Report No. 5094-EC entitled "Ecuador: An Agenda for Recovery and
Sustained Growth, was distributed on October 5, 1984. The subsequent
paragraphs reflect those reports as well as the findings of a March 1986
economic mission to Ecuador. Annex I provides the main economic indicators.
Background
3.        While Ecuador began the 1970s as one of the least developed Latin
American countries, the discovery, exploitation and subsequent world price
hikes of oil placed it firmly among the middle-income countries of the
hemisphere by the end of the decade. Oil changed Ecuador's economy
dramatically. Two-thirds of 1970 export revenues were from agriculture; by
1980, nearly two-thirds were from petroleum and only a quarter was from
traditional agricultural crops. Real GDP grew an average 9 percent a year in
the 1970s. With this rapid income growth, much social progress was made in
spite of rapid population growth (2.8 percent). Significant increases in
education enrollment were achieved, infant mortality was halved, and life
expectancy increased by 15 years.
4.        Resources generated from oil exploitation were, in general, used to
improve priority physical infrastructure needed for development: trunk
roads, pipelines, airports, seaports, power generation. In addition to
financing much of public sector investment, these oil revenues were channeled
through Central Bank credit to the private sector. However, the Government's
role grew: total public expenditures rose from 24 percent of GDP in 1973 to
34 percent in 1982. Government subsidies--to urban consumers, fuel and
electricity users, import-substituting industries, exporters--grew in
importance. The public sector's use of external borrowing also grew; medium-
1/  Part I is substantially the same as Part I in Report No. R-86-223/1 of
August 27, 1986.



and long-term debt outstanding rose from around US$6UO million in 1977 to
US$7.2 billion in 1985. Nevertheless, the country's institutions remained
weak. Moreover, the benefits of growth not onily created severe structural
problems, they were also unevenly distributed: a sizeable middle class
emerged but about 40 percent of the  hrban and 65 percent of the rural popula-
tion still live in poverty.
5.        By 1984 over half of fiscal revenues came from petroleum.  Since
much of the oil revenues were earmarked, only 60 percent of General Govern-
ment current revenues were channeled through the budget. Furthermore, the
non-oil revenue effort was seriously weakened: income taxes represented less
than 2 percent of CDP, while income and import taxes collected represented
less than a quarter of their theoretical yield. Low internal energy prices
created distortions in consumption and investment patterns.
6.        Further structural problems developed as a result of the trade and
exchange rate policies followed since the 1960s, which gave high protection
to the industrial sector and permitted a steady real appreciation of the
exchange rate. These policies allowed real manufacturing output to rise 150
percent during 1972-1982, virtually all based on import-substitution.  But
with one or two exceptions, Ecuador's non-oil exports stagnated, and by i982
two-thirds of foreign exchange came from oil exports. These underlying
problems made Ecuador's economy very vulnerable to world petroleum prices and
to the availability of foreign credit lines, and helped bring the period of
prosperity to an end by 1982-1983.
Economic Performance in Recent Years
7.        A recession developed when oil prices ended their real rise in
1981, foreign credit lines were reduced drastically in 1982, and natural
disasters occurred in 1983. CDP dropped by 3 percent in the latter year.
The Authorities initialLy borrowed heavily abroad to counteract the fall in
oil prices, but as Ecuador's access to external funds dwindled, an IMF-
supported stabilization program became necessary. This program adjusted the
exchange rate, introduced mini-devaluations, and placed temporary restric-
tions on imports. Ecuador also undertook a debt rescheduling and initiated a
fiscal austerity program. Inflation, however, surged to 50 percent in 1983
owing to flood-related output disruptions and the short-term effects of the
adjustment measures. By 1984, economic growth resumed (4.1 percent of GDP),
the pubiic sector deficit was virtually eliminated, and inflation was
halved. With new petroleum fields coming on stream, the volume of oil pro-
duced rose 18 percent between 1983 and 1985. Non-oil exports, responding to
improved exchange rates and better weather, also rebounded.
8.        Following a close election, a new Administration took office in
August 1984. Its economic philosophy is very much market-oriented. The new
Government took a number of significant measures aimed at consolidating
economic recovery and initiating structural reforms: further devaluations;
increases in domestic fuel prices, electricity tariffs, and interest rates;
removal of emergency import controls introduced in 1982; promotion of direct
foreign investment; and elimination of most administered prices in
agriculture. It also negotiated a new IMF Stand-by, which focussed on
achieving balance of payments equilibrium and a reduction in inflation.
Supported by the Stand-by, Ecuador unified two official exchange rates,
introduced a new financial savings instrument--certificates of deposit--
with market-determined interest rates, generated a public sector surplus,



- 3 -
eliminated some prior import deposits, and tightened monetary control. The
results of all the above measures, together with continued recovery f nr the
1983 disasters, allowed 1985 GDP to grow by 3 percenit, inflation to decline
to a 22 percent annual rate, export volume to grow by 8 percent, net reserves
to inprove to nearly US$200 million (equival'it to one monith of imports), and
private savings mobilization to increase sI .ttficantly, mostly thlrough the
new certificate of deposit.
9.         A prime target of the Government's program was its external debt,
servicing of which would have consumed three-fourths of export earnings had
further reschedulings not been arranged. The Government's multi-year debt
rescheduling was finalized in December 1985. All principal falling due to
commercial banks between 1985-1989 (about US$4.2 bilLion) was rescheduled,
but virtually no fresh money was provided. Similarly, a multi-year arrange-
ment was worked out with the Paris Club in April 1985, dealLng with 1984 ar-
rears and principal falling due in 1985-87 (about US$400 million). Assuming
world petroleum prices had remained about constant in real terms, the Autlhor-
ities--and Bank staff--believed Ecuador could have achieved GDP growth of 5-6
percent p.a. with a modest level of additional external financing restricted
to official sources.
10.       The precipitous fall in oil prices in early 1986, however, has sig-
nificantly changed Ecuador's prospects. Petroleum revenues stand to decline
by over US$850 million in 1986 alone (29 percent of 1985 merchandise ex-
ports), while fiscal revenues from oil could fall by US$4bO million (5 per-
cent of GDP). Partly offsetting the oil export losses, agricultural exports
are expected to bring in an additional US$250 milLion because of higher cof-
fee prices and Ecuador's good policies during 1984-1985. Nevertheless, these
net losses now mean that over a quarter of Ecuador's 1986 domestic savings
and 28 percent of its exports will be needed for foreign interest payments.
Outlook
11.       As a result of the recent enormous loss of oil income, there has
been a negative impact on Ecuador's GDP in 1986. While the economic per-
formance of Ecuador is highly sensitive to world petroleum prices, its pros-
pects also depend on its ability to accelerate the implementation of struc-
tural reforms.
12.       The country is, especially in its new petroleum fields, a rather
low-cost producer, so low that six private oil firms have signed exploration
contracts since 1985; one has found new oil and is testing its commercial
feasibility. Staff projections indicate that oil prices are likely to in-
crease to lev'els above US$15/hbl for 1987 and beyond (at 1987 prices). This
would permit CDP to grow at -ates above population growth after 1987, even if
the current ac~ount deficit were restricted to about 3 percent of GDP. The
debt-service ratio would be about 30 percent of exports of goods and serv-
ices, assuming that the new borrowings were provided by official and commer-
cial sources at attractive terms. At this relatively low oil price, and
without major increases in oil exports, the Ecuadorian economy could begin
only a slow recovery if the Government desLred to improve its creditworthi-
ness and maintain private consumption per capita at about the 1985 level. If
oil prices reach a level around US$17/bbl in 1987 and thereafter (at 1987
prices), the economy could achieve higher GDP growth rates--4 to 5 percent--
even if the current account deficit were restricted to 2 percent of GDP.



13.       After oil prices, the greatest effect on Ecuador's recovery and
creditworthiness will stem from the Administration's ability to aggreseively
implement adjustment policies already begun. These include a steady liberal-
ization of many factor and product prices, reduction of industrial protec-
tion, divestiture of inefficient state enterprises, maintenance of an at-
tractive exchange rate for exporters, increased utility tariffs and domestic
petroleum prices, increased exploration for oil by both public and foreign
private companies, and enhancing and diversifying sources of fiscal revenue.
The new lower oil price prospects will also require greater efforts to re-
strict the growth of public expenditures, both current and capital.
14.       The IMP approved a new Stand-by arrangement in August for Ecuador.
The Bank is also assiLscing the Authorities in developing a medium-term growth
strategy as a possible vehicle to mobilize additional resources for Ecuador's
development. Because of Ecuador's past determined efforts to adjust its
economy despite political and economic difficulties, the likelihood that
petroleum prices will rise from early 198b levels, anid the Governinent's posi-
tive policy responses, we believe -hp country remains creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART [I - BANK CRUJP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR 2/
I5.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. The Bank and IDA have extended 38 loans
and 5 credits to Ecuador totalling US$929.1 million net of cancellations. As
of September 30, 198b, US$559.1 million of this amount had been disbursed.
The IFC has invested in five firms in Ecuador, incLuding a large textile com-
pany, a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise and a development
finance company. As of September 3U, 198b, commitments for these operations
amounted to US$28 million, of which lFC held US$4 million. Annex 11 contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC operations as of
September 30, 1986.
16.       Execution of Bank Group ftnanced projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the insuffi-
ciency of the country's public sector managerial and technical resources--a
constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic and social
development. One effort directed at overcoming these weaknesses is the
Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2516-EC), which focusses on fiscal
management. Furthermore, in recent years, the Government and Bank staff have
worked together to step up disbursement of Bank loans. Among other initia-
tives, a Special Action Program for the country provided for revolving funds
in five projects. As a result of these general efforts, disbursements rose
from US$26 million in FY83 to US$83 million in FY86. The country has set up
a monitoring committee for all externally financed projects which should re-
inforce efforts to accelerate disbursements. The Bank is undertaking annual
portfolio implementation reviews to detect and resolve specific obstacles to
execution of Bank-financed projects; the first took place in November 1985,
and conclusions highlighted the delays caused by complex procurement pro-
cedures. The Public Sector Management Project wilL finance a study aimed at
streamlining these procedures.
17.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be over-
come. To date, approximately 21 percent of Bank Group lending has been for
2/  Part II is substantially the same as Part 11 in Report No. R-86-223/1 of
August 27, 1986.



- 5-
infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two were to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil.  Three power operations aimed at improv-
ing generation and distribution facilities in Quito; the fourth power opera-
tion aimed at improving efficier.cy of sector institutions. The first live-
stock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversi-
fication in the Bank Group's lending program away from infrastructure. Since
then, the Bank Group has made 12 other loans and credits for agriculture and
fisheries, nine loans to support industrial development, and two for pre-
investment studles. These productive sector loans comprise 65 percent of
total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group support for social sectors--
education, water supply and urban development--now accounts for about 12 per-
cent of total Bank lending. Generally, as various project audit reports have
revealed, project implementation performance has been marked by longer than
expected project implementation periods, cumbersome procurement procedures
and ineffective institutional development components.
18.       Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to support Government
initiatives in macroeconomic and sector reforms over the medium term. This
will be achieved through a series of sector and project loans aimed princi-
pally at supporting policy improvements in energy, agriculture, and industry,
and developing social and economic infrastructure. In 'ddition to the design
and adoption of adequate sector policies, Bank lending will emphasize the
generation of exports and employment. Moreover, during the preparation of
individual operations, special attention will be paid to adequately preparing
institutional development components and advancing the procurement process.
Besides the Water Supply Project recommended in this report, for the near
term the Bank is preparing financial sector, housing and petroleum opera-
tions. In addition to Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible
operations in agribusiness, fisheries, petroleum refining, hotels and mer-
chant banking.
19.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Loans outstanding (including
undisbursed) from IDB to the country in early 1986 totalled about US$1.2
billion equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power,
agriculture, industry and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the coun-
try have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry con-
cessional terms. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major develop-
ment lender in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-
oriented projects continuing to account for a large share of its lending pro-
gram. By early 1986, USAID had about US$158 million in outstanding loans to
Ecuador (including undisbursed). Its program concentrates on urban develop-
ment, agriculture, health and the private sector. In addition to maintaining
close contact with USAID, IDB and other aid agencies to assure compatibility
of programs, Bank staff have undertaken a full public sector investment re-
view which could serve as the basis for a meeting of Ecuador's creditors in
1987.              e



20.       As of end-1985, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium- and
long-term external debt of Ecuador totalled about US$7.2 billion. Of the
former sum, the Bank group was owed 4.4 percent and the IDB 8 percent.
Through 1990, the IBRD share of Ecuador's outstanding and disbursed public
foreign debt is expected to remain below 10 percent, and the IBRD share of
total public foreign debt service is projected to remain about 11 percent.
PART III - THE HATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Population and Service Levels
21.       The estimated end-1984 total population of Ecuador was 9.1 mil-
lion, of which about 4.6 million (51 percent) was urban. The total popula-
tion is growing at an estinaated 2.8 percent p.a. Long-term population
trends show an increasingly urbanized population and a marked migration
from the highlands to the coast. Over 50 percent of the urban population
is concentrated in Guayaquil, the nation's principal industrial and commer-
cial center, and in Quito, the capital city. In 1982, life expectancy was
63 years. Infant mortality was 76 per thousand live births, as compared to
54 in Colombia, 53 in Mexico and 27 in Chile. Enteritis and other
diarrheal diseases were the principal causes of mortality.
22.       Between 1960 and 1984 water supply and sewerage service levels
improved considerably: from 37 to 53 percent of the population served by
water supply and from 15 to 29 percent of the population served by public
sewerage. Another 18 percent of the population was served by latrines or
septic tanks. At the end of 1984, 75 percent of the urban population and
25 percent of the rural population had domestic water connections. Despite
these improvements, service levels are still among the lowest in South
America. Moreover, metering levels are very low; water quality control is
generally very poor, and intermittent service is the rule.
Water Resources
23.       The Ecuadorian Water Resources Institute (INERHI) is responsible
for planning and monitoring the country's water resources. Count-ywide,
Ecuador is generously bestowed with rainfall. Its water resources are suf-
ficient to supply the needs of the country for many years to come. Al-
though groundwater resources are plentiful, about 90 percent of all water
for domestic use comes from surface sources and is transported mostly by
gravity. Sources generally yield high quality water, and little treatment
is needed. Despite the overall adequacy of water resources, geographical
and seasonal imbalances exist, particularly in Quito and some areas in the
southern coast.
Sector Organization
24.       Conceptually, sector organization is adequate; however, indi-
vidual sector organizations are weak. The Ministry of Health's National
Sanitary Works Institute (IEOS), in coordination with the National Develop-
ment Council (CONADE), has responsibility for sector planning and setting



investment priorities. The Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE), since its
start-up in 1979, has become one of the principal financing agents for the
sector.
25.       IEOS establishes standards, prepares projects, constructs and
supervises works, manages a rural sanitation fu.d and operates some 20
small water supply and sewerage systems.  IEOS may also set tariffs and
promote and participate in the organization of autonomous water and
sewerage companies, but only at the request of the municipalities.  IEOS is
plagued by politlcal interference and suffers from severe budgetary con-
straints. It is highly centralized with more than one-half of its 1,000
employees headquartered in Quito. IEOS' role has been gradually eroded
over the past 20 years, largely because of its lackluster performance in
meeting its commitments and its increasing involvement in the Ministry of
Health's functions (hospital and health care center maintenance).
26.       CONADE's effectiveness is hampered by its limited analytical
capacity and its relative isolation within the public sector. BEDE runs a
relatively efficient operation and has assisted in moving the sector toward
greater financial discipline.
27.       At the local level, only the eight largest cities have autonomous
municipal water and/or sewerage companies. Most of the other municipal-
ities have poor water and sewerage services characterized by a lack of
autonomy and a resulting shortage of qualified manpower and a limited
revenue base.
Sector Performance and Prospects
28.       The Government has recently revised its Water Decade targets to
serve 70 percent of the population by water house connections and provide
70 percent with sanitation services by 1990. These more modest targets
will probably be attained after 1990. The 1985-89 National Development
Plan (NDP) allocates US$90 million annually to the sector.  The NDP
projected investments are about 70 percent of estimated requirements to
meet Water Decade goals; however, as a result of the recent oil price
decline these investment levels have been reduced. Major sector
investments in the NDP (about 30 percent of total investment) are
programmed for the country's two principal cities. In Quito, investment
includes short-term water supply solutions, operational improvements in
Quito's Water Supply Company and final design and preparatory works for the
city's long-term water supply solution (Micatambo project). The IDB is
assisting in the financing of these works and studies. In Guayaquil,
investment includes the execution of water supply works defined in a
well-conceived Master Plan and complementary sewage works. The water
supply investment forms the basis for the proposed project. IDB is
assisting in the financing of the sewage works. Internal funding of sector
investment is mainly through Central Government grants and, more recently,
BEDE loans. IDB has been the principal source of external financing. The
Bank assisted in the financing of water supply works in Guayas Province and
the above-mentioned Master Plan for the City of Guayaquil. Foreign
suppliers have also provided external credits.



- 8 -
29.       Past sector performance has been adversely affected by:  (1) lack
of autonomous water entities; (ii) tEOS' failure to exercise its role am
the lead technical agency; (iii) poor project design criteria; (iv)
procurement tied to suppliers' loans; and (v) lack of capital cost recovery
policies. Government actions in the sector have been carried out
principally on an ad hoc basis, responding to emergency situations and
municipal pressures with funding allocations and little thought to the
management of the sector. Investments are not subjected to least-cost
solution analysis, and design periods are uneconomically long, ranging from
20 to 40 years. Projects, ae a result, are overdesigned. Moreover, the
selection criteria are applied by IEOS on a "first-come, first-served"
basis. Suppliers' loans lead, in many cases, to inappropriately high
capital-Intensive investments. In addition, these investments are not
properly operated and maintained because poor management and limited
revenues result in a Lack of trained personnel and availability of spare
parts. Current water and sewerage tariffs generally do not cover operating
and maintenance costs. Country-wide, average water tariffs are low,
amounting to about US$0.04/m3. In a sample of 50 systems, total income in
1983 covered only 45 percent of current expenses. The resulting operating
deficits are covered by municipal budgets and debt service by the Central
Government. Most rural systems cover at least their operating expenses,
with many accumulating a surplus for future extension.
Bank Experience In the Sector
30.       The Bank helped finance the Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water
Supply Project (Loan 1030-EC, signed July 1974, USS23.2 million). The loan
was tully disbursed in 1982. The Bank, under a pre-investment project
(Loan S-006), also financed feasibility studies in the sector.
31.       Project completion and performance audit reports for Loan 1030-EC
have been prepared. These reports conclude that while the important
project objectives have been met: (i) the main project component was
premature; (ii) the project execution period was optimistic; (iii) slow and
cumbersome procurement procedures contributed to execution delays; (iv)
financial and operating parameters were unrealistic, and improvements were
limited; (v) the Board of the Guayaquil Municipal Water Supply Company
(EMAP-G), with strong municipal government influence, was involved in the
day-to-day management of the company; and (vi) the technical assistance for
institutional improvements was too ambitiou6, not clearly targeted and did
not sidress the Borrower's felt needs.
32.       The findings and lessons learned have been taken into account in
the preparation of the proposed project. The proposed project is based on
full feasibility and final designs and an eight-year implementation sched-
ule. Standard bidding documents are being prepared. Financial an.' operat-
ing targets ate conservative. The proposed technical assistance is tied to
a specific plan of action to strengthen EMAP-G's management and
operations. The plan, based on EMAP-G's staff diagnosis, was approved by
the Company Board.
Bank Sector Strategy
33.       Since 1976 the Bank has attempted to develop a secondary city
operation focussed on sector policies, the strengthening of national insti-
tutions including IBOS and BEDE, and the development of autonomous water



- 9 -
companies.  In addition, 1fl  has repeatedly undertaken efforts to
strengthen LEOS through non-reimbursable technical assistance programs and
lending operations. Despite these efforts IEUS remains ineffective.
34.        Bank strategy in the sector would therefore focus on creating
strong autonomous regional water and sewerage companies, for the time
being, bypassing lEWS. Such companies would allow the more efficient use
of scarce human and financial resources and contribute to economies of
scale. The Bank would concentrate its first efforts to develop EMAP-G as a
model company which could be used as an example for the country. Through
BEDE's close association with EMAP-G in the context of its ongoing
financing of works complementary to the proposed project, the lessons
learned under the project would be institutionalized within BEDE for
dissemination to other water projects countrywide.
Guayaquil and Guayas Province
35.       Guayaquil had an estimated mid-1985 population of about 1.4 mil-
lion people; the rest of Guayas Province had a population of about 0.4 mil-
lion. Guayas Province experienced a population growth of 3.9 percent p.a.
between 1974 and 1982. Guayaquil is the largest city in Ecuador (15
percent of the total population). Its main source of water is the Daule
River. EMAP-G is the water supplier for the entire Guayas Province. A
separate Municipal Sewerage Company (EMA-G) provides sewerage services in
Guayaquil. Service levels in the companies' charter areas in 1985 were 58
percent of the population served by public water supply and 48 percent of
the population served by public sewerage.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project OrigLn
3bo.      The proposed project is based upon the Water Supply Master Plan
for Guayaquil and Guayas Province, which was financed under Loan 1030-EC
and satisfactorily completed in 1981. The project was identified in May
1985 and was prepared by EMAP-G with the help of Bank Staff. It was
appraised in February 1986. The appraisal mission's report (No. 6268a-EC,
dated November 17, 1986 and entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Second
Guayaquil and Guayas Water Supply Project") is being distributed
separately. Negotiations for the proposed project took place in Washington
from October 6 - 1U, 1986. The Ecuadorian delegation was led by Mr. Jaime
Zeas, Subsecretary of Public Credit and Coordination. Mr. German Ode,
President of EMAP-G, represented that institution. Annex III contains a
timetable of key events in processing the project.
Water Demand
37.       E!AP-G's annual production is projected to increase by 41 percent
from 122 Mm3 in 1986 to 173 Mm3 in 1994. These projections are based on a
1994 population of 2.1 million served (Master Plan projections and 1982
census), on the reduction of the average sale per connection from 40.8
m3/month in 1984 to 37.3 m3/month in 1994 (distribution system reaches low
income population), and on thie reduction of unaccounted-for water from
about 50 to 30 percent (operations improvements). The production capacity
required, based on maximnum day demand and emergency requirements, is
estimated at 130 percent of average consumption.



- 10 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement
38.       Bank strategy in Ecuador is to support macroeconomic and sector
reforms through a series of sector and project loans, including those
intended to develop social and economic infrastructure. Within individual
operations special attention will be paid to improve performance of public
enterprises. The proposed project would supply needed physical
infrastructure to Ecuador's major industrial center and port; assist EMAP-G
in gaining a solid operational and financial footing; and bring the low
water service coverage in EMAP-G's service area (58 percent) to levels
compatible with national urban coverage (80 percent). An estimated 600,000
persons living at or below the relative poverty level would benefit from
the proposed project. EMAP-G is at the threshold of becoming an
efficiently operated company. During project preparation the Bank assisted
EMAP-G to develop a pragmatic technical cooperation program and identify a
well run water utility to carry it out, and required EMAP-G to prepare
draft tender documents. Close Bank monitoring of the technical cooperation
program is essential to EMAP-G's efforts to move ahead.
Project Objectives
39.       The proposed project would support the Government's service goals
in the sector, improve water service levels in Ecuador's largest city, and
strengthen EMAP-G by improving its managerial, technical and financial per-
formance. It would have the following objectives:
(a)  Expand the water supply system  to increase water supply coverage
from 58 to 81 percent of the population served by 1994 through
house connections benefitting about 900,000 additional people.
It would provide increased water production, treatment and
storage, rehabilitate the most deteriorated part of the
distribution system and expand service to low-income
neighborhoods.
(b)  Improve EMAP-G's performance  to handle an increased customer
base in a more efficient and financially sound manner. It would
also assist sector development by employing EMAP-G as a model for
establishing efficient regional water supply companies.  In addi-
tion, recommendations for a merger or better coordination of the
activities of EMAP-G and EMA-G would be made. Engineering ser-
vices would also be included to assist EMAP-G in ics planning
through the year 201U.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project vjuld include three components:
(a)  Expansion of water supply system consisting of:  (i) rehabilita-
tion of La Toma treatment plant to increase capacity from 420,000
m3/d to 660,000 m3/d; (ii) construction of an additional storage
tank to increase capacity by 22,000U m3; (iii) rehabilitation and
construction of 400 km of distribution system; and (iv) a
revolving fund to finance house connections. The water produc-
tion increases would be achieved by optimizing the existing civil



- 11 -
works. Changes in the treatment process would be introduced to
take advantage of modern and widely used technology. The reha-
bilitation of La Toma would provide sufficient water production
to meet projected peak demand in 1997 at about one-third the cost
to build a new treatment plant;
(b)  Operations improvement and training consisting of:  (i) technical
cooperation and training provided through a twinning arrangement
with a well managed water supply authority with emphasis on
operations and maintenance and leak detection, human resources
development and financial and commercial management; (il)
purchase of operations and maintenance and leak detection
equipment; and (iii) purchase of production and domestic meters
and rehabilitation, if needed, of a meter workshop; and
(c) Studies providing for: (i) an update of the second stage of the
Master Plan; (ii) rehabilitation of La Lolita treatment plant;
and (iii) merger or better coordination of activities of the
water and sewerage companies. Assurances were obtained that the
study of EMAP-G and EMA-G merger or coordination would be
completed by December 1990, together with a program to implement
study recommendations. By that time, the institutional capacity
of both agencies should be improved sufficiently to make enhanced
coordination or merger more feasible.
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The estimated total project cost would be US$50.5 million
equivalent, including US$4.3 million in interest during construction over
the four-year grace period of the proposed Bank and CDC loans. The total
foreign exchange cost would be US$31.9 million (63 percent). The base
cost, expressed in December 1986 prices, would be US$39.9 million, net of
taxes. Construction costs are based on unit costs developed by EMAP-G for
on-going works. E1MAP-G is exempt from direct domestic and import taxes.
Physical contingencies include 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for
supplies and equipment. Price contingencies assume: (i) that the
purchasing parity of the sucre versus the US dollar would not change during
project execution; (ii) an eight-year project execution period (1987-94);
and (iii) projected international inflation of about 3 percent for 1987, 1
percent p.a. for 1988-90 and 3.5 percent p.a. thereafter.
42.       The proposed Bank loan of US$31 million would include US$25.4
million towards the estimated foreign component and US$5.6 million towards
local costs. EMAP-G would finance US$11.5 million from internal cash
generation, and CDC is expected to provide US$8 million in cofinancing to
close the financing plan. Negotiations between EMAP-G and CDC are expected
to be concluded by March 1987. CDC loan terms are expected to be similar
to those for the proposed Bank loan. It is anticipated that CDC would
finance approximately 20 percent of the cost of goods and services financed
by the Bank. The financing plan calls for both the Bank and CDC to finance
interest on their respective loans during the project's first four years to
allow time for initial project works to generate revenues.  Financing of
some local costs by the Bank is justified on account of the decisive
actions by the Government to mobilize domestic resources and curtail
expenditures in the face of declining fiscal receipts resulting from
falling oil prices. Execution and delivery of the CDC loan contract and
satisfaction of its conditions of effectiveness would be a condition of
effectiveness for the Bank loan.



- 12 -
The Borrower/ImplementLag Agenc-y
43.       The Borrower and implementing agency, as under the previous Bank
Loan, would be EMAP-G, an autonomous municipal company created in 1970.
The Mayor of Guayaquil is nominally the President of the Board of
Directors. However, this position is delegated to one of the municipal
council members. Other members represent civic, professional and labor
groups. Frequent mayoral changes in Guayaquil have induced turnover at the
top management level. The President effectively runs the Company. The
organization structure is functional, needing only minor changes. EMAP-G
has a seasoned corps of 33 professionals at the upper and mid-management
levels backed by a staff of 45 lower level professionals. EMAP-G has
reduced its number of employees per 1,000 connections from over 16 in 1974
to 10.7 in 1986; however, staff is still excessive. There is a strong
union structure. Professional salaries are low, and training opportunities
are limited. EMAP-G serves 58 percent of the population with house
connections. About half of these connections are effectively metered. In
addition, the Company provides service through over 100 metered standpipes
and some 75 outlets for private water tankers, which retail the water.
Estimated unaccounted-for water is about 50 percent.   Systematic
maintenance of EMAP-G's water supply system is hindered by lack of funds,
equipment and trained staff. Administrative and financial systems need to
be improved. Standard commercial financial statements are prepared with
some delay. An excellent program budget is produced; however, approval of
the budget is late in the year. Comprehensive management reports,
available through 1983, are no longer prepared. EMAP-G has maintained its
tariffs in real terms over the past decade. The average water tariff as of
January 1, 1987 will be US$0.20/m3, which is reasonable by Latin American
standards and high within the Ecuadorian context. On account of EMAP-G's
adequate tariff level, its heavy reliance on non-utility revenues
(principally taxes on telephone services provided within EMAP-G's service
area) has been reduced from 64 percent of operating revenues in 1973 to 16
percent in 1985. The Company has managed to service its debt despite major
devaluations of the sucre.
44.         EMAP-G's staff has reviewed the Company's current situation and
set targets in priority areas, which are included in the technical
cooperation and training program (para. 47). The Board of Directors has
accepted these recommendations and established a permanent planning
committee composed of a management team and a working group to work closely
with the twinning institution, which would be responsible for technical
cooperation and training. In addition, EKAP-G has agreed on an action plan
(para. 55) to improve its managerial, technical and financial performance.
The present Board President has strong political support and is committed
to improve the existing situation in EMAP-G.
Project Implementation
45.       Project implementation would take place over eight years with
completion expected by end-1994. EMAP-G's project execution unit would be
responsible for project implementation. This unit was created under Loan
1030-EC and prepared the proposed project with the assistance of consult-
ants. Staffing of the unit is satisfactory. Project implementation has
already started with EMAP-G preparing the draft tender documents for 75
percent of the physical works. The timetable for project implementation



- 13 -
calls for bidding on all works by mid-1988. EMAP-G would hlire qualified
consultants, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for
construction supervision.
46.       Two complementary works, which have already been awarded and are
being financed by the Government and BEDE, are essential to project execu-
tion and completion. The first, construction of a 100,000 m3/d emergency
treatment plant, must be operational before the rehabilitation of La Tome
treatment plant can begin. The second, construction of main transmission
pipes (BEDE-l), should be timed to meet distribution system expansion.
Satisfactory evidence that sufficient funding would be available to
complete the treatment plant would be a condition of disbursement for the
component to expand the water supply system. Assurances were obtained that
the emergency treatment plant would be completed by July 1987 and the main
transmission pipes by July 1989.
47.       The technical cooperatlion and training program is proposed under
a twinning arrangement. Draft terms of reference have been prepared by
EMAP-G, and negotiations are ongoing with the Miami-Dade County Water
Authority to provide this assistance. The arrangement would offer
technical support from an operating entity and draw upon the entity's
in-house resources to address EMAP-G's needs in a practical manner. EMAP-G
management and staff would, through training visits to the supplier, have
the opportunity to study and work in a more commercial and technical
environment, and use this experience to correct deficiencies in EMAP-G. An
external consultant would be hired at project start-up to coordinate the
activities under this program. Advance contracting of US$300,000 and
retroactive financing of US150,O000 from July 1, 1986, would be provided to
allow early start-up of this vital component. Submission to the Bank of a
signed contract between EMAP-G and the twinning institution would be a
condition of loan effectiveness .
48.       A revolving fund to finance house connections would be estab-
lished under the proposed project. This fund would help EMAP-G to expand
rapidly its consumer base--an essential element for EMAP-G's improved
financial performance--and assist the population, especially the low and
lower-middle income groups, to obtain in-house water service. All residen-
tial consumers pay the same connection fee; cross-subsidy is achieved
through a progressive tariff structure. All new residential consumers
would be eligible. An estimated 80 percent of the new customers would
apply for loans to finance the house connection fee. Agreement was reached
on lending terms, which would include a 5 percent down payment and an
amortization period of up to five years, at a variable interest rate
sufficient to maintain the real value of the fund. EMAP-G would handle
billing and collection through its normal procedures. EMAP-G's working
capital requirements for house connection loans receivable would peak after
four years from project initiation. To support these working capital
requirements, the Bank would front load its disbursements for the foreign
exchange cost of all house connections financed over the eight-year project
execution period (para. 51 (c)).
Procurement
49.       Procurement under the proposed project would be in accordance
with Bank Guidelines (May 1985), including goods and services cofinanced by
the CDC loan. The Bank would supervise all procurement under the proposed
project. EMAP-G has prepared draft tender documents in accordance with
these Guidelines and submitted them to Ecuador's Controller General (CC)
for approval.



- 14-
50.       EMAP-G's experience shows the convenience of bidding through sup-
ply and installation packages. Most civil works under the proposed project
are expected to be bid in this manner. Force account works are not
foreseen. Contracts for supply and installation of goods or civil works
estimated to cost US$1 million or more and equipment purchases for
US$100,000 or more would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Contracts for supply and installation of goods or civil
works estimated to cost between US$100,000 and US$1 million, and equipment
purchases estimated to cost between US$10,000 and US$100,000 would be
awarded under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, satisfactory to
the Bank. The aggregate amount of contrn-ts so procured would not exceed
US$4 million. Contracts less than the above LCB limits would be procured
on the basis of a minimum of three quotations subject to an aggregate limit
of US$600,000. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a
preference in bid evaluations of 15 percent of CIF price, or the prevailing
import duty, whichever is less. The limits for prior Bank review of
bidding documents (US$500,000 for supply and installation of goods or civil
works and US$100,000 for supply of goods) would result in a coverage of
about 85 percent of the estimated project cost. Consultants would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines under terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank.
Disharsement
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a)  40 percent of expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials,
70 percent of expenditures for imported goods procured locally,
and 40 percent for other local expenditures;
(c)  100 percent of the cost of residential connections up to a total
of US$4.7 million, and 39 percent thereafter;
(d)  100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and training;
and
(e)  amount due for interest on the Bank's loan within its grace
period up to a maximum of US$3.3 million.
52.       Consistent with procurement prior review limits (para. 50) and
Bank practice in Ecuador, for contracts valued at less than US$500,000
equivalent for local expenditures and US$50,000 equivalent for foreign
expenditures, disbursement would be against statements of expenditures.
Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank,
but would be retained by EMAP-G for periodic inspection by Bank staff. To
expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened in the
Central Bank with a deposit of up to US$2.5 million, representing four
months' peak disbursements. The Closing Date of the proposed loan would be
June 30, 1995. The disbursement period is estimated at 8.5 years,
consistent with the Bank's sector profile for Latin America. Disbursements
during the first year are higher than the profile because of the advanced
stage of the procurement process (para. 49), advance contracting (para. 47)
and establishment of the house connection revolving fund (para. 48).



- 15 -
KAW-G's Financial Performance and Prospects
53.       EMAP-G's 1984 and 1985 finanicial results are consistent with a
policy of financing investment through debt and Government grants.
Operating revenues and tax receipts covered operating costs, working
capital needs and debt service. Despite operating losses in both years,
net income, which includes non-operating tax receipts, was positive,
reflecting tariff increases effected mid-1984 and scheduled to be
maintained through 1986. Accounts receivable are high, representing about
3.5 months of sales. The account with the University of Guayaquil, which
represents over 10 percent of EMAP-G's service receivables, is in arrears.
EMAP-G is carrying out a major program of service cuts in order to improve
its collections. Moreover, the Government has agreed to pay the
University's past dues by end-1987. Measures to further reduce accounts
receivable, including continuation of the service cuts program, have been
incorporated into EMAP-G's action plan (para. 55).
54.       EMAP-G's estimated 1986 operating results have been affected by
Ci) an erosion of the tariff base (estimated inflation of 23 percent versus
tariff increases of 20 percent); (ii) increased personnel costs resulting
principally from newly negotiated labor contracts; and (iii) a 27 percent
devaluation of the sucre. As a result, EMAP-G has been authorized to
implement a satisfactory program of tariff hikes and increased service
charges effective January 1, 1987. In addition to these tariff increases,
projected financial results are predicated on water production increases, a
major connection program and EMAP-G operational improvements. The above
actions are consistent with the project execution schedule and EMAP-G's
capabilities and would allow the Company to finance a gradually increasing
share of its investments from internal sources. Operational and resulting
financial targets are conservative and consistent with project design.
Estimated financial results are satisfactory. Internal cash generation
would be sufficient to complete the emergency treatment plant (para. 46)
and meet the proposed project's counterpart funding of US$11.5 million.
EMAP-G's estimated contribution to overall investment would be 35 percent.
Commitments to fund ongoing major works in EMAP-G's investment program have
already been secured from BEDE and the Government. The working ratio is
projected to fall from 90 percent in 1985 to 66 percent beginning in 1991.
55.       Assurances were obtained that EMAP-G would provide funds from
internal sources and tax receipts sufficient to cover its operating
expenses, debt service, working capital needs and not less than the
following percent contributions to the financing of the proposed
Bank-assisted project: 15 percent in 1987, 20 percent in 1988, 25 percent
in 1989 and 31 percent thereafter throughout project execution, to yield a
weighted average of 25 percent for the entire project. Also, agreement was
reached on a rolling three year action plan with annual operational and
financial targets to allow EMAP-G to provide required counterpart funding.
Assurances were obtained that EMAP-G would update the action plan and
jointly review the plan with the Bank by September 30 of each year and take
all measures necessary to meet the covenanted funding levels.
Auditing and Reporting
56.       Ecuador's CG is responsible for ensuring that EMAP-G's financial
statements are audited. In recent years the audit has been carried out by
a private firm. Assurances were obtained that EMAP-G's financial



- 16 -
statements, the Special Account, the revolving fund for house connections,
and the statements of expenditure would be audited annually by independent
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, and that the auditors' reports would be
provided to the Bank not later than six months (four months in the case of
the Special Account) after the close of each year. Assurances were also
obtained that EMAP-G would submit to the Bank: (i) by March 31 and
September 30 of each year a report on progress made in project execution
and the action plan and monitoring indicators; and (ii) a completion report
not later than six months after the Closing Date of the Bank loan.
Environmental Ipact
57.       The proposed project would improve sanitary conditions in
EMAP-G's service area by providing a safe, continuous supply of water and
improving operations and maintenance of the system. Complementary expan-
sion of the sewage system is being carried out by EMA-G with IDB financ-
ing. These works would adequately dispose of most water produced by the
project. Per capita consumption in marginal areas not covered by the sew-
age system is relatively low and would be adequately removed through indi-
vidusl disposal systems.
Project Justification, Benefits and Affordability
58.       The proposed project would enable ENAP-G to satisfy projected
demand to the year 1997 and to prepare it to adequately undertake system
expansion which will be needed in the future. At project completion
(end-1994) approximately 900,000 additional persons would be provided with
piped water; about 68 percent of these beneficiaries would be the urban
poor. Furthermore, the efficiency and planning capabilities of EMAP-G
should improve on account of the technical cooperation program.
59.       The proposed project would finance only items of high priority
and immediate impact which are consistent with long-term objectives
detailed in EMAP-G's Water Supply Master Plan. Project components repre-
sent the least-cost solution for achieving objectives and would not involve
the use of unusual or unproven technologies. Each element of the construc-
tion program was selected on the basis of analyses of at least three alter-
natives.
60.       The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project has been calcu-
lated at 14 percent. Revenues from consumer charges (based on authorized
January 1987 tariffs) were used as a minimum measure for economic
benefits. As in all water supply projects, revenues do not fully capture
full project benefits including, inter alia, improved health, higher
property values and employment generation. The consumer surplus is also
excluded from the calculation. EMAP-G's authorized January 1987 tariff of
US$0.20/i3 exceeds the average incremental cost (AIC) over the medium term
of US$0.17/m3. The satisfactory economic results derive from the more
efficient use of existing facilities and improvements in EMAP-G's
operational performance.
61.       The entire population in EMAP-G's service area would benefit from
the proposed project. For those already connected to the system, safe
water would be available on a continuous basis. By 1994, at project com-
pletion, about 900,000 additional people would be served. Over 400,000 of
the beneficiaries now residing in the metropolitan area do not yet have



- 17 -
house connections. This population is now mostly served by private water
trucks and pays about ten times EMAP-G's average tariff for limited and, at
times, unsafe water. Based on income distribution data and the location of
project works, an estimated 58 percent of total project cost would directly
benefit the poor, while 57 percent of the Bank loan would directly benefit
the poor. The poverty group is defined as families earning a monthly
monetary income of less than US$155, corresponding to about 30 percent of
national per capita income and a family size of 5r4. An evaluation of the
affordability of services was based on authorirad January 1987 tariffs. At
that time a family with a monthly income at the porerty threshold would par
a reasonable charge of little more than 2 percent of its Income for a
minimum monthly water supply of 15m3, plus monthly anortization over five
years of the house connection fee.
Project Risks
62.       There is little risk regarding che physical works.  Final designs
are 90 percent complete; draft tender documents are under preparation;
technology is proven and straightforward, and an eight-year implementation
schedule is contemplated. A higher risk exists, however, that the
management stability and local political support needed to sustain the
financial and operating improvement programs cannot be maintained.
Moreover, EMAP-G's financial improvement is based on maintenance ot
satisfactory tariffs, on a major connection program and operational
improvements. These risks have been minimized through a number of already
taken or proposed actions:
Ca)  EMAP-G has been authorized to implement a satisfactory program of
tariff hikes and increased service charges effective January 1,
1987 (para. 54);
(b)  EMAP-G has agreed on an action plan to commit the Company to
improve its performance based on concrete targets. The action
plan would be closely monitored during supervision and formally
reviewed annually (para. 55);
(c)  EMAP-G's professional staff has evaluated the Company's needs and
prepared recommendations for improvement which have been
incorporated into the above-mentioned action plan. EMAP-G's
Board has approved these recommendations and established a high
level committee to implement them. The Board President has
strong political support to carry out the recommendations
(para. 44);
td)  a pragmatic technical cooperation program through a twinning
operation has been designed for the project. Several visits have
been made by EMAP-G to the likely twinning institution; draft
terms of reference have been agreed, and negotiations are ongoing
(para. 47);
(e)  a revolving fund is included in the project to facilitate the
cnnnection to the system by new consumers, especially the urban
poor population (para. 48); and
(f)  operating and financial targets are conservative and within
EMAP-G's capacity.



- 18 -
63.       Sensitivity analyses show that a reduction of 20 percent in the
number of connections would still leave an IRR of about 9 percent.
Further, if unaccounted-for water targets were not reached and
unaccounted-for water remained at the current level, the IRR would still be
about 10 percent, and water production capacity would still be sufficient
to meet projecr;ed non-peak demand through the end of the project execution
period.
PART V - RECOMNENDATLON
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
November , 1986
Washington, D.C.



III peH  lesIe:t  01,111  191St
lesuatol                                  indinni ~~~~~~~~~~A ottl c  matpl uaim:il lSg pm   II stedmsl    q  Bit  tI i    I
9191,111 IC  1910-bU   1410-33             191.       illS       l6'        iuib
ike.. humatit PiMaut Al                                211113                             4.         2.3      ICe..      1011.10    iou.0      400.0
Aqmcumltorep                                          1,6149                             2.1        11        2.9       I11.41      12. I      I1.1
1Eisotlo   RIM .s                                    ,9.                      i        1.           .        19. I     21.4       21.4.      St Il
lorvicem                                             43114.                               .         13        1.3        14.1       11,0      10.4
Cenmuutiom                                              9M1.                     .          .         2.2        11.4      19?        14,1       14.1I
Dreu. IRWleemel                                         2,211.43.                         11.1         .        16.2       24.!       lii1       16.1
Imperts ofli   ho1                                      3,344.7                 2.1       :2.7        4.4       :3.4       23.6       24,4       26..
lsprir  of16114'                                      2,43O.2                  0,       19.1       -1.1       21.2       219.11     24.91      '. I
Barns hhlimuil Sewioqo                                  2,136..6ie                        13.1        n.m       :2.2       1I.!        1.  1117  1.41
Ceeatlsen ml  riglndisiIrte  l
.ii twerst pricoSP's
1931      Jill       III?       193         :939       l982
IEtiiiuODIU  u:PUhi                                                             190.0      :00.0      i0.o.      100,0      14t.0      100,4
Pr harm                                                                        72.9       74.11      77.5       03.0       311.1      9119
Crude rPeWS..                                                                M3.       41.7       II.&        44.8       44.0      £16.1
00kmr                                                                        :1.  :1.6  Me        :1.6        53.2       It. I      11.2
ieomilect.r i                                                                  21.1       23.2      212.1       :7.0       :0.9       11.11
lehilt. (Blph.                                                              e.h6       P. 7       31.5       3.38       4.39       5.93
feitrelsa Dersve.9iu                                                         6.19       5.42      5.17        4,99       3.9        3.52
Prm,rnmit Carea                                                              3.15       4:19       2.40       1.12       I.??       2.6
Fish aod beite"                                                             2t3         3.23       M.1        7.6.6     4.29       1j1
*eaug:aI  PpWiI                                                                 ,s.o0      :e.o       1Ott       mw0..      :00.6       004.4
Fies                                                                            L4         5.a        4.5        11.9      :0.1        1.1
Petrol mc                                                                       6.9        9.m      :o.s        1l.7        9.2         in1
leulumesy ad Iplinecs                                                          43.4       93.3       34.3       24.0       24.1       740.1
thOur                                                                          42.3       II's       19.1       47.6.      14.4        4.
MP0 Multer                                                                      :c:       114.0    :09.9    3la.1         251.4      354.9
foriumlg lute  terra pee delmars                                                s.:       is.e       WA..        t:1       62.5       91.5
(apat Pm-mcm Lade,                                                            241.0      ?4e.        71.3 228.  2.2       :17,1      7225.1
Impart Pricm  lide.                                                           IoU,     112.5       154.:      133.1      51116      Iii 7I
Terms *i :rai, ldade                                                          146.1      131.4      140.2      161.3      113,9      1311.3
es a I coI SP
1975      7490       1933        1934      :905
ratermge  Seveou                                                                          27.2       27S0       2m.3       26.2       28.2
(er-rat lapadituren                                                                       20.2       21.5       20.4       20,2       10.
ha-pIes 1.5  r tefmslt i-I                                                                -2.2      -0.3        -2.2        1.4        0.1
Capital [ppeuiitimre                                                                       9.:       :o.e        1.9        4.4        I.1
Fireip  Fimancing                                                                          1.4        3.4        9.3      i1.e.       .a.A
MPSrbuLt late  it)                                                                         3.8        9.1       21.3        3.i
IMPo  Zspita buplb  Rite                                                                   2,4        6.15      -0.4        0.4
Eour-g  Caesuapimm  6rull lite mUI  c                                                      9.3       14.6       &.S.        4.9 di
ICON                                                               ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~0.7  3.0  :s.o  1.1
Amarginal Savinga tale                                                                    *0.d        0.2       -t.4        0.3
Iopso  Elacticutp                                                                          1.9       0.3        -0.5        4.1
n.a. Miarathon imot .Available.
at   Indir-nt tamen  are tnatioed in Service,.
61   Free kat ml Acueat, Elat.  s.ll at sitcs blarce a# Piymmuts nmbers.
Cl   Figrems arm for 54403-73 al :913-14,  Sbeers  1494 Oem-id Aemlopen: ImPPrt.
dl   Figure fwr 19115-0.  Inc.v:  orWd lirea tepirt l334-f
11-21-86



ND
- 20                      Pam 2 oef 2
EW IStLINCIF PYILtIIJ, Ehlllgl CAPIIL  11   WI?
Citelice tift i curentl prlrsi
ieguleliu  11115 iN ut1isee  t.ei-yuavi  9.320
Pt Per Capital   11.111  il935l
..   ... .. .. .   ............ ............... . ................w. ... .   ........................... .......................... .... ..........
kiwi                                irpll.   iltoin.
1t1 111F              Ittt'       191         lit         lo15 IlltD
..    ................  ..........   .........    .... ...........   ............ ...    .... ... ...    ....   .......   ..... .......  .    ............   ...........
EA14LAUI If PrnIWlI
bl   seprts of het & lervits                                     -*71    -1121.4  -1214.4    -*IY.I            278.7       -110,1       -125.0
1spet  ci lest i Sernicet                                     2,uS   t:    e.    2,3.    2* 11.9    71,            e    3,2160. e    2,59Evu
agelnt  6f1 heat, 6 lertiues,                                3,646.1  4,020.2 7     ,949.0    :11i1li 0    120to  u   J,17o.0   3,711,8
OI  1rmaAffM                                                        in.0      25.0       2u. 1       24.0 u        u,4        2539        fl,a
berrMot kiel klani                                              -641.t  -1Icl.t    1194.4         .11.1       -7IB.2        -1.,0    -06.0
irett Privlte  InvimaL                                              1o.o      D0 e       44.'        54.0         50.0         5.11       10.0
Difi ial grant Aid                                                  30.1         n           a           0           0         u A         0,0
CLI teals inttl                                                    11.1,     90.1t   -257.2         L21.3        IR9         16.J        450.0
oilitica                                                        222.0      t15.l   -20.7           93.4       259.3       113.9       321.0
Privet,                                                         495.1      S 2.4    -12t.5          11        -E S1.9      2I4         I;:
th.  Capitel                                                       50.2    -310.l       951.6      -103.2         29.3     -11.3          Su.e
Cbhsqe  is Dlihtial hartes  isocrevsl                            -22:.0    2;7.4 4D 4.v               11.0      -19.0       -25.0         50.0
bres   Ivternselreul O iRfitil h1rvn                              157.       5 10.      II.eo       2l.u        313.0       447.0        391.0
Dxiiiiil Inerves lyen-mcii                                            .1        2,2       4.3          1.2         1.2          .a         1.
sat cuill Di lsqerts.
Avttil                              Prh lm.
............................................................ .........,_
1911       It9       192         1911         1944        93
,.................. .................. ...............   ........ ........
MauS Dl""oNEtlhl
bru Oberish.rm etu  of tI  Lans 9t2.9   1,412.t    271.2                                            211.9       319.3       420.5
Cscsn,esiml                                                      14.1       7.5        15.4         0,tl       2779        S3.3
bilainrdl                                                       3.7        1.5        1.l         3.4         1.9        N.A.
1EM                                                             i.e        0.5        0.1         0,0         0.9         4.0
nth"e  Ileilil  ,ral                                           11.0        6.53      3J.         17,t4      6.I         c.i.
t'-cructc iuAl                                                  950.2   1,3l4,1    21.1          2 1.1      512.5       56t.1
04I4ral Enpwts  crelts                                      275.*      121.3       II.1        154.2       203.J        97.9
]19D                                                            4.0      S4.1       41.2        11.2        t.          iru.3
Dtbrr hItilutsral                                              t1.3       47,1       T2.         2*3 J         .i1      107.1
OIthef                                                        17.3      15.1          9.I        13.4         1.I       11t.
ElIEPNAL KilI ar
... .._..............
hut OutslAvifiq  ead liebuvrs                                   3.Si.4  4.79 92  3.911.0    6,307.0    6.721.6    7,21I.5
O4ieciel                                                     1,423.1  1,112.3 1J 44.1    1.I 29.1   1,991.3   2,052.?
IPD                                                          109.4      151.3      1 3.        201.0       247.3       715.5
IDA                                                           Si.3      1S.;           d         35.0        3 SS.4      24.2
Othor  ldiciel                                             1.70124   1,624.5  1,437.1    1,597.3    1,70D.i    1,5. I
Otter                                                        I,914.3  2,437.0  2,330.4    4.537.?    4,131.            v.1.1.1
bjicbire    4b1t                                                1.4111.6     W.2  1,027.1    1,41.            1,105.4    1,211..1
KIT SEltVl9E
.. .... ..... - ------ 
Tolel  ell Service Paoyists                                      357.4       930.5  1,114,9         537.7       9".I        947.5
Itlernt                                                         290.5      404.0     504.7       375.1        792.1       713.2
fmentr stlle                                                    7|7.9     4h.S  5 30  '           112.7       201.2 3      34.2
h6t Service is a 7 60 Ie-prts                                      19.1       31.0       40.3       27.0         33.t        29.1
mm gmti (IPSE
....... ...... _....... ..........
Ditt lIDtotul M                                                     3.12       3.5        4.          3.2         ST          3.1
IMU  disherf eentspttal prun   disarsennts                           3.5        3.0      14.1         17.3        16.          9.1
ton  d et eticslitetal    st srvice                                  3.3       2.4        2.1:       atS           4.0        5.2
ID. Noltotal MW                                                      1.1       0.1        0.9         0a.         0.5         2.5
Itt diihrneerstutstal res  Eister ns            ti                  0.0 o.e    0o         0.0         0.0         0.e          0.0
III 4601 sUvre/tetvl let  eri-et                                     0.01      0.1         4.1         1.1         0.1         0.1
.._..........   .............. ....__ . _...__. .. ..,__..........................
r    s.  -  lireattiar nvt evalable   .
e1 I110-5 freo  IS.
3-t-16



ANNEX II
- 21 -                       Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A. STATENENT OF RANK LOANS AD IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1986)
---[US$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                   (lee. cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
Number     Year    Borrower    Purpose                   Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
22 loans and 5 credits fully disbursed                   277.3   37.5        -
1429      1977      Ecuador      Highways                 17.5               3.8
1644      1978      Ecuador      Rural Development        18.0              11.8
1776      1980      Ecuador      Gusyaquil Urban
Development            31.0               13.5
1882      1980      Ecuador      Highways                 55.0              29.2
1991      1981      Ecuador      Rural Development        16.9              13.7
2044       1982     Ecuador      Rural Development        16.1              13.2
2096      1982      Ecuador      DFC                      60.0               2.2
2135      1982      Ecuador      Housing                  35.7              20.6
2171      1982      Ecuador      Education                16.0              14.4
2221      1983      Ecuador      Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit           40.6                3.0
2516      1985      Ecuador      Public Sector
Management              6.0               6.0
2626       1986     Ecuador      Agriculture Sector    100.0                52.1
2672      1986      Ecuador      Industrial Finance    115.0               100.0
2673      1986      Ecuador      Third Small-Escale
Enterprise Credit      30.0              30.0
2713      1986      Ecuador      Power Sector
tiuprovementl/          8.5               8.5
2752      1987      Ecuador      Agriculture Credit1l   48.0                48.0
Total                                       891.6   37.5
of which has been repaid                  190.9    2.9
Total now outstanding                       700.7   34.6
Amount sold                      3.2
of which has been repaid       3.2          -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA              700.7   34.6
Total undisbursed                                             370.0
1/ Not yet signed



AhNEX II
Paige 26U2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1986)
Type of      (amount in USS million)
Fiscal Year                                  Busineus    Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.        Texttleg       3.7       0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982      S.A. (COFIEC)                DFC           -         0.5       0.5
1976           Sociedad Agricoln e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0          -          5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984           Cemento Nactonal (CEM)        Cement       12.0       1.0      13.0
1980           Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/        Pulp and
Paper        3.3       1.0       4.3
1981           Compania Minera Toachi,
S.A.                        Mining         1.0       0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                    25.0       3.0      28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      22.4       1.6     24.0
Total commitments now held by IFC           2.6       1.4      4.0
Total undisbursed                                             _____
I/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX III
ECUADOR
SECOND CUATAQUIL AND GUAYAS PROVINCE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Nine months.
(b) Project prepared by: EMAP-G, with the assistance of Bank staff.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: May 1985.
(d) Appraisal mission: February 1986.
Ce) Completion of negotiations: October 1986.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: May 1987.
Section II - Special Bank Implemeatation Action
The Bank has assisted EMAP-G to develop a technical cooperation program
and identify a well-run water utility to carry it out.
Section III - Special Condltions
(a) A special condition of loan effectiveness would be that the CDC
loan contract had been executed and delivered, and that its conditions of
effectiveness had been satisfied (pamr. 42).
(b) A special condition loan effectiveness would be that EMAP-G had
submitted to the Bank a signed contract with the twinning institution for the
technical cooperation and training program (para. 47).
(c)  A special condition of disbursement for expansion of the Water
Supply System Component would be that satisfactory evidence had been received
by the Sank that sufficient funding would be available to complete the
ongoing construiction of the emergency treatment plant (para. 46).
(d) Agreement was reached with EMAP-G on a rolling three-year action
program to improve its managerial, technical and financial performance. Such
action plan would be jointly reviewed by the Bank and EMAP-G by September 30
of each year (para. 55).



OAULE                                               :      -, ragncnh                                       tic: "Xar-  -                
Al VA RADOi 
- .'                s-d                        .                         CNAGAG$ C-A--
\    .'  Cfi                                    |                                   I    o                   . --.  . ~^e,I  '-'.   
jl5 ~ ~ -'r    v-,I/ ;.
''3
;  c  ECUADOR
:    AUILSECOND CUAAQUL AND GUAAS PROVINCE
S                                                     ~~~~~~~~~WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
'/>                                                                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~~~~~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~         TOMK C
SECOND GUAYAQULPROPOSED PROAEGT WOtKS
E\Tfl=lDistribution system uncer new ioan
Q\  Reservoir existing and projecT
o  Water treatment oWants zxisting and P'oject
Distribution system under previous Loan 1030
cXlSTlING WATER WCRKS
. , Trcnsrimssion rrains
fDiStSrbutfon network
Reservoirs
_    aving stations
Water treatment plants
-  Main roads
Railwcy
0    1    2    3    4    5    e    7    8                                                                      Rivers
KILOCMBE ERS                                                                                 Hilts
0        I       2        3        4        5
-MILES         |     - '        \&^           ASALES



>|   ' ASCUALES       /,
| >7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H o              °Jfsos-~
C                       8~~~~~~C
BEDE I-
I,                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El FbCAchec
p.-
E   D~~~~~ED I         AIRPOR T                                      fM<
2    "                           '. -'                                  -                             3._--,._DURAN
k a GUAYAQUII'i                                                 X _,.                                       __ I
X  ,r &*'l* Se '  °,
-to                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soP  7
. . . . _ . . . . . . _ .... . . . ..... .. . . . . . .... .. .W..E  .C.
c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    S-t
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






