Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2774 EC
               (Second Guayaquil and Guayas Province
                       Water Supply Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                        Dated June 17, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2774 EC
                      MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called IBRD) and
COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called CDC) (IBRD
and CDC hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Lenders).
      WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement between IBRD and Empresa
Municipal de Agua Potable de Guayaquil (hereinafter called EMAP-G),
dated September 26, 1987 (hereinafter called the IBRD Loan Agree-
ment), the Bank made a loan (hereinafter called the IBRD Loan) to
EMAP-G in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one
million dollars ($31,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth
in IBRD Loan Agreement for purposes of financing a portion of the
Second Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project described
in Annex A hereto (hereinafter called the Project);
      (B)   by a loan agreement between CDC and EMAP-G, dated
September 18, 1987 (hereinafter called the CDC Loan Agreement), the
CDC made a loan (hereinafter called the CDC Loan) to EMAP-G in an
amount not to exceed four million nine hundred thousand pounds
Page  2
sterling (\1a4,900,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the
CDC Loan Agreement for purposes of financing a portion of the
Project;
      (C)   by Law No. 38 passed by the National Congress of the
Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the Republic) as published
in the Registro Oficial on August 3, 1989, the new entity Empresa
Provincial de Agua Potable del Guayas (hereinafter called EPAP-G)
was created and assumed all the functions, assets and liabilities of
EMAP-G;
      (D)   the Republic and EPAP-G have requested IBRD and CDC to
agree to: (i) the undertaking by the Republic of all of EMAP-G's
covenants, agreements and obligations as borrower (as distinguished
from EMAP-G's role as Project executing agency) contained or
referred to in the IBRD Loan Agreement and the CDC Loan Agreement
and for that purpose, to enter into loan assumption agreements with
IBRD and CDC (hereinafter called the IBRD Loan Assumption Agreement,
when referring to such agreement between IBRD and the Republic, and
the CDC Loan Assumption Agreement, when referring to such agreement
between CDC and the Republic); and (ii) the undertaking by EPAP-G of
all of EMAP-G's covenants, agreements and obligations as Project
executing agency contained or referred to in the IBRD Loan Agreement
and the CDC Loan Agreement, for which purpose the Republic shall be
required to onlend the proceeds of the IBRD Loan and the CDC Loan to
EPAP-G; and
      (E)   IBRD and CDC have agreed to the request of the Republic
and of EPAP-G;
      NOW THEREFORE the Lenders, being cognizant of their common
interest in the carrying out of the Project and desiring to
cooperate closely and expeditiously with respect to their financial
assistance for the Project, have agreed to cooperate in the manner
set forth herein.
A.    Financing Plan
      The expenditures required for the Project are expected to be
financed as described in the financing plan comprising Annex B
hereto as such financing plan may be amended from time to time.
B.    Information and Exchange of Views
1.    The Lenders shall promptly make available to each other all
pertinent nonconfidential information received from the Republic or
EPAP-G which may be of common interest with respect to the Project,
the service of the IBRD Loan and the CDC Loan, and the fulfillment
of any obligation of the Republic or EPAP-G with respect to the
Project.
      The foregoing shall in no way limit or restrict the right of
each of the Lenders to demand and obtain that all information which
the Republic is obligated to provide pursuant to the IBRD Loan
Assumption Agreement or the CDC Loan Assumption Agreement, respec-
tively (or which EPAP-G is obligated to provide pursuant to any
agreements with respect to the Project between IBRD and EPAP-G or
CDC and EPAP-G), be furnished directly to such Lender.
2.    IBRD and CDC shall communicate with and afford each other a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views, before taking any action
of common interest with respect to the Project, and shall inform
each other after taking any such action. The matters on which this
exchange of views and information shall be carried out include:
      (a)   notifying the Republic and EPAP-G that the conditions
            precedent to initial disbursement and effectiveness of
            the IBRD Loan Assumption Agreement and CDC Loan Assump-
            tion Agreement, respectively, have been fulfilled;
      (b)   extending the date for compliance with such conditions;
Page  3
      (c)   extending the Closing Date as defined in the IBRD Loan
            Agreement and the CDC Loan Agreement;
      (d)   amending, abrogating or revoking any provision set forth
            in the IBRD Loan Agreement or IBRD Loan Assumption
            Agreement or the CDC Loan Agreement or CDC Loan Assump-
            tion Agreement or any agreements with respect to the
            Project between IBRD and EPAP-G or CDC and EPAP-G or
            waiving any provision set forth in such agreements if
            such waiver may substantially affect the carrying out or
            financing of the Project; and
      (e)   taking any action which may lead to the suspension,
            cancellation or prematuring of the IBRD Loan or the CDC
            Loan or any part of either of them.
      For purposes of this paragraph, IBRD and CDC agree, if
considered advisable, to designate, from time to time, members of
their respective staffs who may meet whenever considered
appropriate.
C.    Supervision
      The Lenders shall cooperate with each other with regard to the
supervision of the Project, shall provide each other copies of their
respective nonconfidential supervision reports, promptly as issued,
and shall agree where appropriate on specific arrangements for
coordinating their action. Nothing in this Memorandum in any way
limits the rights of either Lender to supervise the Project in
accordance with the provisions of its respective agreements with the
Republic or EPAP-G.
D.    Bidding, Procurement and Disbursement
1.    Bidding procedures for the procurement of the goods, works and
services required for the Project and to be financed by either or
both of IBRD and CDC shall be those described or referred to in
Parts A, B and C of Section I, in Section II and in Section III of
Schedule 4 to the IBRD Loan Agreement as amended pursuant to the
IBRD Loan Assumption Agreement. The Lenders agree that, whenever
practicable, all comments proposed to be made to the Republic or
EPAP-G regarding such bidding procedures shall be channeled through
IBRD.
2.    The Lenders shall furnish each other detailed information, at
least every six months, or at any time on request, on all disburse-
ments made under the IBRD Loan and the CDC Loan, respectively.
E.    Cooperation
      The Lenders shall inform each other of any material matter not
known to the other or others relating to the progress of the Project
and, in particular, of any matter that may interfere substantially
with the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the
benefits of the Project or that may lead to a substantial increase
in the cost of the Project. The Lenders shall send to each other,
for information purposes, copies of reports made by persons sent to
review the progress of the Project, as well as copies of correspon-
dence with the Republic or EPAP-G which in the opinion of the
respective Lender may be of interest in relation to the Project.
F.    Resolution of Differences
      In the event of any difference of views on any matter covered
by this Memorandum, each Lender shall use its best efforts to reach
promptly a mutually acceptable resolution of such difference. Each
Lender shall, however, retain its independent right of decision and
action under its respective agreement with the Republic or EPAP-G.
G.    Effectiveness
      This Memorandum comes into force and effect upon signature by
Page  4
the Lenders.
                              ANNEX A
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the
Republic's service goals in the water supply and sewerage sector;
(b) improve water supply service levels in Guayaquil; and (c) assist
EPAP-G in strengthening its managerial, technical and financial
management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Lenders, EPAP-G and the Republic may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Expansion of the Water Supply System
1.    Rehabilitation of EPAP-G's La Toma Treatment Plant to increase
its capacity from about 420,000 m3/d to about 660,000 m3/d.
2.    Construction of an additional tank to increase storage
capacity in the water supply system of EPAP-G by about 22,000 m3.
3.    Rehabilitation and construction of about 400 kilometers of
distribution system in Guayas Province, including about 50 kilo-
meters in downtown Guayaquil.
4.    Installation of about 136,000 residential water connections in
Guayas Province.
5.    A credit program to finance the installation of residential
water connections.
Part B:     Operations Improvement and Training
1.    Technical cooperation and training program for EPAP-G's staff
on operations and maintenance, leak detection, human resources
development and financial and commercial management.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of operation and maintenance
equipment for EPAP-G, including spare parts, water quality control
laboratory, leak detection, communication and topography equipment,
vehicles and micro-computers.
3.    Acquisition and installation of production and domestic meters
and rehabilitation of EPAP-G's meter repair workshop.
Part C:     Studies
      Carrying out of studies:
1.    To prepare an updated master plan for EPAP-G, such master plan
to include activities foreseen for the period up to year 2010;
2.    On the rehabilitation of the La Lolita Treatment Plant; and
3.    On the merger of, or improvement on, the coordination of
activities between the water and sewerage companies operating in
Guayaquil.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                         ANNEX B
Estimated Project Costs:
                                       Local   Foreign  Total
                                       ---- US$ million -----
Page  5
Expansion of Water Supply System        13.82   17.20   31.02
Operation Improvement and Training       1.32    6.95    8.27
Studies                                  0.14    0.51    0.65
Base Cost (December 1986 prices)        15.28   24.66   39.94
Physical Contingencies                   2.21    1.47    3.68
Price Contingencies                      1.10    1.46    2.56
Total Project Cost                      18.59   27.59   46.18
Interest during Grace Period
 -IBRD Financed                            -     3.30    3.30
 -CDC Financed                             -     1.00    1.00
Total Financing Required                18.59   31.89   50.48
                                        =====   =====   =====
Financing Plan:
                                        Local   Foreign  Total
                                        ----- US$ million -----
      IBRD                               5.61   25.39   31.00
      CDC                                1.50    6.50    8.00
      Borrower                          11.48     -     11.48
      Total                             18.59   31.89   50.48
Estimated Disbursements:
                         IBRD FISCAL YEAR
            1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
            ------------------- US$ million --------------------
Annual      0.80  6.01  7.56  6.49  3.80  2.46  2.03  1.31 0.54
Cumulative  0.80  6.81 14.37 20.86 24.66 27.12 29.15 30.46 31.00
