Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2774 EC
    (Second Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 17, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2774 EC
                     LOAN ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and the
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Republic).
      WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement between the Bank and Empresa
Municipal de Agua Potable de Guayaquil (hereinafter called
EMAP-G), dated September 26, 1987 (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement), the Bank made a loan (hereinafter called the Loan) to
EMAP-G in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty one
million dollars ($31,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement;
      (B)   by a guarantee agreement between the Republic and the
Bank, dated September 26, 1987 (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement), the Republic guaranteed all the obligations of EMAP-G
contained or referred to in the Loan Agreement on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
Page  2
      (C)   by Law No. 38 passed by the National Congress of the
Republic, as published in the Registro Oficial on August 3, 1989
(hereinafter called Law No. 38), and as also reflected in Executive
Decree No. 1168 issued by the President of the Republic, as
published in the Registro Oficial on January 9, 1990 (hereinafter
called Executive Decree No. 1168), the new entity Empresa Provincial
de Agua Potable del Guayas (hereinafter called EPAP-G) was created
and assumed all the functions, assets and liabilities of EMAP-G;
      (D)   the Republic and EPAP-G have requested the Bank to agree
to: (i) the undertaking by the Republic of all of EMAP-G's
covenants, agreements and obligations as Borrower (as distinguished
from EMAP-G's role as Project executing agency) contained or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, and for that purpose, to enter
into this Loan Assumption Agreement; and (ii) the undertaking by
EPAP-G of all of EMAP-G's covenants, agreements and obligations as
Project executing agency contained or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, and for that purpose, to enter into the project agreement
with EPAP-G of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Project
Agreement); and
      (E)   the Bank has agreed to the request of the Republic and
of EPAG-G;
      WHEREAS the Bank and the Republic have agreed on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to enter into this Agreement (herein-
after called the Loan Assumption Agreement) on the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.01 of
this Loan Assumption Agreement, wherever used in this Loan Assump-
tion Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, in the Loan
Agreement and in the Preamble to this Loan Assumption Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "EPAP-G Estatutos" means the by-laws of EPAP-G as
amended to the date of this Loan Assumption Agreement;
      (b)   "Master Plan" means the master plan referred to in
Schedule 2, Part C.1 of the Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "sucres" means the legal currency of Ecuador; and
      (d)   "water utility serving Guayaquil" means EPAP-G.
                            ARTICLE II
                          Loan Assumption
      Section 2.01. The Republic hereby assumes, and agrees to carry
out and fulfill, all of the covenants, agreements and obligations of
EMAP-G as Borrower (as distinguished from EMAP-G's role as Project
executing agency) contained or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
including, without limitation, all liabilities and obligations of
EMAP-G relating to payment of principal, interest and other charges
on the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan,
as well as including the obligation to maintain the Special Account,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement. The Bank hereby recognizes
the succession of the Republic to the rights and obligations of
EMAP-G as Borrower (as distinguished from EMAP-G's role as Project
executing agency) under the Loan Agreement, and, consequently, the
Republic is hereby substituted for EMAP-G as a party to and Borrower
Page  3
under the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.02. All actions taken, rights acquired or obliga-
tions incurred under the Loan Agreement by EMAP-G as Borrower (as
distinguished from EMAP-G's role as Project executing agency) shall
be valid and binding on the Republic as though the Republic had been
EMAP-G and the coming into effect of this Loan Assumption Agreement
shall not affect the consequences of any action taken or omitted to
be taken by the Bank or EMAP-G as Borrower (as distinguished from
EMAP-G's role as Project executing agency) under the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Amendments to the Loan Agreement
      Section 3.01. The Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.    The first paragraph of the Preamble to the Loan Agreement is
amended by substituting the words "(the Borrower or EMAP-G)" in
place of the words "(the Borrower)".
2.    Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement are deleted.
3.    Paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is
redesignated as paragraph (c) and amended by inserting the word
"and" at the end thereof.
4.    Paragraphs (g), (i) and (j) of Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement are deleted.
5.    Paragraph (h) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is
redesignated as paragraph (d) and amended by substituting a period
in place of the semi-colon at the end thereof and by substituting
the words "water utility serving Guayaquil" in place of the word
"Borrower".
6.    Articles III and IV of the Loan Agreement are deleted.
7.    Article V of the Loan Agreement is redesignated as Article
III.
8.    Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement is redesignated as Section
3.01; its paragraph (a) is amended to read as follows in its
entirety: "The Borrower shall maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, its resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project."; its paragraph (b) (i) is amended to read
as follows in its entirety: "have its records and accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;"; its
paragraph (b) (ii) is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and"; and its paragraph (b) (iii)
is amended to read as follows in its entirety: "furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning said records and accounts, as well
as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.".
9.    Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of the Loan Agreement are deleted.
10.   Articles VI, VII and VIII of the Loan Agreement are deleted.
11.   Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is amended as follows: (i)
the amount of the Loan allocated to Category (2) (b) in the table in
paragraph 1 is amended to read "8,700,000" instead of "6,500,000";
(ii) the amount of the Loan allocated to Category (5) in the table
in paragraph 1 is amended to read "1,100,000" instead of "3,300,000-
"; and (iii) paragraph 3 is amended by deleting the words ": (i)",
Page  4
by deleting the semi-colon and all text immediately after the words
"July 1, 1986" and by inserting a period immediately after the words
"July 1, 1986".
12.   The first paragraph of the Preamble to Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement is amended by deleting the words "the Borrower", by
substituting the word "the" in place of the word "its" and by
inserting the words "of the water utility serving Guayaquil"
immediately after the word "management".
13.   The second paragraph of the Preamble to Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement is amended by substituting the words "may be agreed" in
place of the words "the Bank and the Borrower may agree".
14.   Part A.1 of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
deleting the word "Borrower's".
15.   Part A.2 of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
inserting the word "Guayaquil" immediately after the words "in the"
and by deleting the words "of the Borrower".
16.   Part B.1 of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
substituting the words "staff of the water utility serving
Guayaquil" in place of the words "Borrower's staff".
17.   Part B.2 of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
substituting the words "water utility serving Guayaquil" in place of
the word "Borrower".
18.   Part B.3 of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
substituting the words "meter repair workshop of the water utility
serving Guayaquil" in place of the words "Borrower's meter repair
workshop".
19.   Part C of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
substituting the words "to prepare an updated master plan for the
water utility serving Guayaquil, such master plan to include
activities foreseen for the period up to the year 2010" in place of
the words "to update the second stage of the Borrower's Master Plan
until the year 2010".
20.   Section I, Part C.2 of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement is
amended by substituting the amount "$50,000" in place of the amount
"$10,000". Section I, Part C.1 of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agrement is
amended by substituting the amount "$1,500,000" in place of the
amount "$1,000,000".
21.   Section I, Part E of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement is
deleted.
22.   Section II of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement is amended by
substituting the words "In order to assist the water utility serving
Guayaquil in carrying out the Project, such water utility shall
employ consultants (which term may also include consulting firms)"
in place of the words "In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants" and by
inserting the words "(the Consultants Guidelines)" immediately after
the words "August 1981".
23.   A new Section III is added to Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement
and reads as follows in its entirety:
"Section III.  Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Bids for contract awards must be submitted in one single
envelope, and the name of each bidder and the total amount of each
bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they have been
Page  5
requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
2.    Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local represen-
tative for purposes of submitting bids, but may be required to have
such a representative upon entering into contracts which they have
been awarded.
3.    Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the water utility
serving Guayaquil without recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or
other Ecuadorian person or entity.
4.    Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the water utility serving Guayaquil must be
admissible without recertification or other participation by any
Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.    Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent
purchasers from obtaining other performance warranties from
suppliers.
B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
services referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on
all contracts.
2.    The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which
shall be at least thirty days from the date of the last advertise-
ment of the invitation to bid.
3.    The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three
days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.    Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
C.    In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:
1.    Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection process,
but may be required to be so registered, at the time of contracting,
if the water utility serving Guayaquil and the Bank so agree.
2.    Foreign consultants must not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a
joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of capable
domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign
consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of
either party to the joint venture arrangement will not be con-
strained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and
(iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate itself
with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants.
3.    Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition
to provide services in Ecuador under contracts to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum
capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.    Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, providing
services under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants'
Association that are different from those required for Ecuadorian
Page  6
consultants."
24.   A new Section IV is added to Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement
and reads as follows in its entirety:
"Section IV.      Internal Approvals
      In the procurement of goods, works and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, standard bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank shall be utilized. The approval by the
Contralor General del Estado (National Controller General) and the
Procurador General del Estado (National Attorney General) referred
to in Article 18 of Law No. 95, of August 2, 1990 (Ley de Con-
trataci›n P€blica) shall be limited to such standard bidding
documents."
                            ARTICLE IV
              Assumption of Contractual Arrangements
      Section 4.01. The Republic shall enter into supplemental
contractual assumption arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
CDC, whereby the Republic shall be allowed to obtain the proceeds of
the CDC Loan for onlending to EPAP-G.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Other Covenants and Terms
      Section 5.01. (a) The Republic declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Loan Assumption
Agreement, shall cause EPAP-G to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of EPAP-G
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds (such as, inter alia, the proceeds
of the CDC Loan), facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable EPAP-G to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Republic shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to
EPAP-G under a subsidiary arrangement to be entered into between the
Republic and EPAP-G, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall, inter alia, include the
following: (i) EPAP-G shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the terms of the Project Agreement; (ii) EPAP-G shall furnish to the
Bank such documentation as required in order for the Republic to
receive Loan disbursements from the Bank; and (iii) the Republic
shall disburse Loan proceeds to EPAP-G when required by EPAP-G for
the Project and in a manner consistent with the provisions of this
Loan Assumption Agreement. Said subsidiary arrangement shall also
specify that: (i) the funds onlent to EPAP-G under the subsidiary
arrangement shall be denominated in sucres in an amount equivalent,
at the time of disbursement from the Republic to EPAP-G either
directly or through the Special Account, to the dollar value of such
disbursement; (ii) EPAP-G shall repay to the Republic all amounts of
principal withdrawn and outstanding under the subsidiary arrangement
under an amortization schedule identical to that contained in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, in sucres equivalent to the dollar
value of each repayment, required by said Schedule 3, at the time of
such repayment, except that the first payment shall be due on May
15, 1995 and the last payment on November 15, 2007; (iii) EPAP-G
shall pay interest to the Republic, in sucres equivalent to the
dollar value, at the time of such payment, of each interest payment
owed by the Republic to the Bank, on the principal amounts withdrawn
by EPAP-G under the subsidiary arrangement and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate equivalent to the rate applicable to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; (iv) EPAP-G shall
pay to the Republic a commitment charge, in sucres equivalent to the
dollar value, at the time of such payment, of each commitment charge
Page  7
payment owed by the Republic to the Bank, on the principal amount
under the subsidiary arrangement, equivalent to that charged by the
Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement; and (v) EPAP-G
shall make the payments of interest and other charges under the
subsidiary arrangement no later than the dates set forth in Section
2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The Republic shall exercise its rights under the
subsidiary arrangement referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Republic and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Republic shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the subsidiary arrangement referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section or any provision thereof.
      Section 5.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
       Section 5.03. The Bank and the Republic hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by EPAP-G
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.04. The Bank and the Republic agree that, at the
moment this Loan Assumption Agreement becomes effective pursuant to
Article VII hereof, the Guarantee Agreement shall forthwith
terminate.
      Section 5.05. Whenever a statement in this Loan Assumption
Agreement is identified as being made for purposes of or pursuant to
a Section of the General Conditions, such statement shall be treated
as if it also appeared in the Loan Agreement.
      Section 5.06. EPAP-G is designated as representative of the
Republic for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of the
Loan Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
      (a)   EPAP-G shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
      (b)   a change shall have been made in the EPAP-G Estatutos
which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project or EPAP-G's financial
condition;
      (c)   the Republic or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of EPAP-G or for the suspension of its operations;
      (d)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Loan Assumption Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that EPAP-G will be able
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (e)   Law No. 38 or Executive Decree No. 1168 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EPAP-G to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
Page  8
      (f)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Republic to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the CDC Loan or any other loan
                        or grant made to the Republic for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
                        or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                        agreement providing therefor; or
                  (B)   the CDC Loan or any other such loan shall
                        have become due and payable prior to the
                        agreed maturity thereof;
            (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Republic establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Bank that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Republic to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are avail-
                        able to the Republic from other sources on
                        terms and conditions consistent with the
                        obligations of the Republic under this Loan
                        Assumption Agreement;
      (g)   a change shall have been made in the Master Plan (either
prior to, as a result of or after its updating referred to in
Schedule 2, Part C.1 of the Loan Agreement) which, in the opinion of
the Bank, shall adversely affect the carrying out of the Project;
      (h)   the Republic shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under this Loan Assumption Agreement; and
      (i)   a representation made by the Republic in or pursuant to
this Loan Assumption Agreement, or any statement furnished in
connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Bank in
entering into this Loan Assumption Agreement, shall have been
incorrect in any material respect.
      Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (h) of Section
6.01 of this Loan Assumption Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Republic;
      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (e),
(g) or (i) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Assumption Agreement shall
occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Loan Assumption Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
      Section 6.03. Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
of the right of the Republic to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, all the provisions of this Loan Assumption Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect.
      Section 6.04. Article X of the General Conditions, in addition
to applying to the Loan Agreement, shall also apply to this Loan
Assumption Agreement as if this Loan Assumption Agreement were the
Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  9
                          Effective Date
      Section 7.01. (a) This Loan Assumption Agreement and the
amendments to the Loan Agreement herein contained shall become
effective on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Republic
and EPAP-G notice of its acceptance of evidence that: (i) the
execution and delivery of the Loan Assumption Agreement and the
Project Agreement on behalf of the parties thereto have been duly
authorized or ratified by all the necessary governmental and
corporate action; (ii) the supplemental contractual assumption
arrangements referred to in Section 4.01 of this Loan Assumption
Agreement, as well as the subsidiary arrangement referred to in
Section 5.01 (b) of this Loan Assumption Agreement, have been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto; and (iii)
the execution and delivery of the supplemental contractual assump-
tion arrangements referred to in Section 4.01 of this Loan Assump-
tion Agreement, as well as the subsidiary arrangement referred to in
Section 5.01 (b) of this Loan Assumption Agreement, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action and all other conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
such supplemental contractual assumption arrangements pursuant to
the provisions of such supplemental contractual assumption arrange-
ments have been met, except for the effectiveness of this Loan
Assumption Agreement and the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As part of such evidence, there shall be furnished to
the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank showing: (i) on behalf of the Republic that
the Loan Assumption Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified,
and executed and delivered on behalf of the Republic and is legally
binding upon the Republic in accordance with its terms, which
opinion shall include explicit confirmation that the Republic has
assumed liability for the Loan and control over the Special Account
which had previously been assumed by EPAP-G pursuant to Law No. 38;
(ii) on behalf of the parties to the subsidiary arrangement referred
to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Loan Assumption Agreement, that such
subsidiary arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified, and
executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and is
legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms; and (iii) on
behalf of EPAP-G, that the Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by and executed and delivered on behalf of EPAP-G
and is legally binding upon EPAP-G in accordance with its terms.
      (c)   Additional requirements for effectiveness of this Loan
Assumption Agreement and the amendments to the Loan Agreement herein
contained shall be: (i) receipt by the Bank of a letter, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, executed by the Ministro de Finanzas of the
Republic on behalf of the Republic, confirming the Republic's
obligations as guarantor of the Bank's loan to EMAP-G for the first
Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project (Loan 1030-EC);
and (ii) receipt by the Bank of a letter from CDC stating that the
supplemental contractual assumption arrangements referred to in
Section 4.01 of this Loan Assumption Agreement have been declared
effective by CDC.
                          ARTICLE VIII
                     Addresses; Representation
      Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  10
                  INTBAFRAD                 1976898 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For the Republic:
            Ministerio de Finanzas
            Quito, Ecuador
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFINANZAS               2358 MINFIN-ED
      Section 8.02. Except as provided in Section 5.06 of this Loan
Assumption Agreement, the Ministro de Finanzas of the Republic is
designated as representative of the Republic for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names, as of the day and year first above
written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                  REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                  By /s/ Pablo Better
                                         Authorized Representative
