RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                   R e p o r t N o. P-260
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. It may not be published
nor may it be quoted as representing the Bank's views. The Bank accepts no
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE TERRITORY OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
August 7, 1961
Department of Operations -
Europe, Africa and Australasia



REPORT AND RECOMENDATIONS OF TEE -RILmDTTr
TO THE EXECMUJTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED YO)A
TO THE TER-RITORY OF TRINIDAD AND TOi3AGO
1.      I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan
of $23.5 million to the Territory of Trinidad and Tobago for the expansion of
the installations of the Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      In the fall of 1958, the Governmnent of Trinidad and Tobago asked for
the Bank's help in financing public investment.  After an examination, in the
spring of 1959, of the economic situation of the Territory and of the expan-
sion program of the Electricity Commission, it was agreed that the Bank Ku1ld
consider lending for the expansion of the Commission's installations after
certain changes had been made in its organization, powers, finances, and
operating procedures. As a consequence, amendments to the Commission's
Crdinance were drawn up in 1960 in consultation with tne Bank. At the same
time, preparatory -work was carried out on the merger, proposed by the Govern-
ment, of Trinidad's two municipal electricity undertakings with the Coz2mi3siDn.
3.      In April 1961, the amended Ordinance was enacted and the merger imple-
mented. At about that time a Bank mission went to Trinidad to review economic
developments and appraise the Commission's plans for expansion in the years
1961 to 1965. Negotiations were carried out in Washington in July 1961.
4.      The Bank has already made the following loans with the guarantee of
the United Kingdom:
Amount as of
June 30, 1961
Year         Borrower                 Purpose             (in u.S.$ million)
1952  Colony of Southern Rhodesia     Power                        28.0
2953  Territory of Northern Rhodesia Railways                      14.0
1955 East   Africa High Commission    Railways and harbours        24.0
1956 Federal Power Board(Federation
of Rhodesia and Nyasaland)    Power                       80.0
1958  Federation of Nigeria           Railways                     28.0
1958 Federation of Rhodesia and
Nyasaland                     Railways                     19.0
1960 Federation of Rhodesia and
Nyasaland                     Agriculture                   5.6
1960 Colony and Protectorate of
Kenya                         Agriculture and roads        5.6
1961  Protectorate of Uganda          Power                         8.4
1961  British Guiana                  Agriculture                  1.3
Total                                   213.9
Of which has been repaid                                    13.7
Total now outstanding                   200.2
Amount sold                     93.6
Of which has been repaid        13.4                        80.2
Net amount held by the  Bank                                120.0
The total outstanding includes $19.2 million undisbursed. The Uganda and
British Guiana loans are not yet effective.



PART II - DESCRIPTIOM OF THE PROPGS LCOAN
5.      The main characteristics of the proposed loan would be as follows:
Borrower:              Territory of Trinidad and Tobago
Guarantor:             United Kingdom
Amount:                The equivalent in various currencies of
$23.5 million,
Amortization:          In 32 semi-annual instalments beginning
January 15, 1966 and ending on July 15,
1981.
Interest rate:         5-3/4%, including 1% commission.
Commitment charge:     3/4 of 1%.
Purpose:               Increase in the Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commissionts generation and
distribution capacity.
PART III - LEGAL fISTRUMENTS XND AUTHORITY
6,      Attached are drafts of the Loan Agreernent between the Territory of
Trinidad and Tobago and the Bank (No. 1), the Guarantee Agreement between
the United Kingdom and the Bank (No. 2), and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Territory of Trinidad and Tobago and the Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commission (No. 3). Under the draft Loan Agreement (Section
5.01 (a)), the Territory undertakes to relend the proceeds of the proposed
loan to the Commission substantially on the terms and conditions conta.ned
in the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which cannot be amended without the
consent of the Bank.
7.      The draft Loan Agreement follows the usual form of the Bank's loan
agreements for loans for electric power undertakings and contains a cove-
nant on the Commissionts rates (Section 5.09). This covenant would be
amplified in a letter (No. 4). The draft Loan Agreement also provides
that the Borrower will not require the Commission to repay during the life
of the loan any advances made to it by the Borrower prior to the completion
of the project, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank (Section 5.10).
This provision would be supplemented by a letter (No. 5). As conditions
of effectiveness, the draft Loan Agreement requires that a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and a contract
for the supply of natural gas to the Commission be executed and delivered
(Section 7.01 (a) and (b)).
8.      The attached draft Guarantee Agreement is in substantially the same
form as previous guarantee agreements covering loans to dependent territories
of the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom will, as usual, give the Bank a
letter confirming the interpretation to be given to Section 2.02 of the
Guararntee A-reement (No. 6),



-3-
9.      Also attached is a r'eport of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement in respect of the pro-
posed loan (No. 7).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
10.     Attached is a report (No. TO-289-a) on the project (No. 8).
11,     The proposed project consists of building a new thermal power plant
at Port of Spain, laying a pipeline to supply the plant with natural gas from
the oil fields in the south of Trinidad, and expanding transmission and dis-
tribution systems. It is planned to be finished by December 1965.
12.     The cost of the project is estimated to be the equivalent of US §37.7
million,  To meet this, a financial plan has been worked out consisting of
$23.5 million, or somewhat less than the foreign exchange cost, to be borrowed
from the Bank and $P14.2 million to be provided by the Commission.
13.     The project would add 100 AM to the generating capacity of the ConmDis-
sion, enabling it to satisfy the rapidly grmzing demand for electricity until
1970; howiever, the new power plant would be designed for an ultimate capacity
of 220 IUW. Most of the new transmission and distribution lines included in
the project would supply electricity to the less developed central and eastern
parts of Trinidad.
14.     The pipeline would be 41 miles long and have capacity enough to meet
the requirements of the existing and the new power plants at Port of Spain and
the estimated industrial needs of the city and the surrounding area for the
rext 20 years. A long-term contract for the supply of natural gas has been
negotiated by the Commission with one of the large oil companies in Trinidad.
The well-head cost of the gas supplied under this contract will be about one-
th-rd of the cost of oil, the only other available fuel.   The proposed loan
would become effective only after the contract had been signed.
15.     The project would be carried out and operated by the Trinidad and
Tobago Electricity Commission, a statutory corporation established in 1945.
Since April 1961, when it absorbed the two municipal electricity undertakings,
the Commission has been the sole public electricity generating and distribut-
ing authority in Trinidad and Tobago.   The Commission is well managed ard
cperated. Its financial position is sound and it should be able in the future
to finance out of earnings a substantial part of the cost of expanding its
capacity.
16.     The Governnent has decided that its past advances to the Commission,
totaling about BWI $33 million, and any advances made during the execution ol
the project, will be treated as part of the permanent capital of the Commission,
17.     Procurement for the project iwould be subject to competitive bidding.
Civil works contracts above the equivalent of $100,000 and purchase contracts
for machinery, equipment, and materials above the equivalent of $50,000 would
be let as a result of international competitive bidding.



-4-
PART V - THE ECONOM-Y
18,     Attached is a report (No. EA-125-a) on the Economy of Trinidad and
Tobago (No. 9).
l19     The islands of Trinidad and Tobago are a British territory off the
northern coast of South America which has just been granted Pull inte-.nal
self-government. The Territory is a constituent part of the West Indies
Federation, which is expected to become independent on May 31, 1962.
Trinidad and Tobago have had a Cabinet system of government since '959, and
the majority party, the People's National Movement, has established a good
record in economic policy.
20.     Except for a recent wave of strikes in several important industries,
social conditions in Trinidad and Tobago have been stable for a number of
years. The progress of the economy has been impressive. Sustained by he.vy
investment in oil and other industries, and in public services, the annual
rate of growth averaged about 10% between 9S54 and 19600   A fairly large
middle class has come into being in urban areas and incomes have reached
levels seldom encountered in underdeveloped countries.
21.     Although the Government has done much to attract private capital inzc
manufacturing, in order to diversify productive activity and provide employ-
ment, oil remains the basis of the economy and agriculture, notably sugar c-me
estates, the largest employer. In 1960, oil accounted for 31% of the gross
domestic product, 36% of government revenue and 82% of exports. Clearly, the
trend of oil prices in the world market and the state of relations betwjeen
the Government and the oil companies are the most important factors in assess-
ing the economic future of Trinidad and Tobago*
22.     In the current decade, the output of oil in the Territory is not ex-
pected to increase as fast as in the middle and late tfifties.   Mevertheless,
crude oil production should grow at 8%-9% per annum, due to the rapid expan-
sion of offshore drilling, and the refining of imncrted oil at about l%-2%
per annum. Trinidad produces only a small fractf½on of world output of oil.
The companies producing there and marketing the output are large and have
world-wide interests. Thus, even though adherence by the United Kingdom to
the European Economic Community might expose Trinidad oil to competition frurn
sources enjoying preferential treatment within the Corimunity, it can expect
to find a ready market.
23.     Relations between the Government and the oil companies are good but
closer contact might bring about a better understanding and allay some fears.
The Government, which at present secures about 5G; of the taxable profits of
the oil companies, does not want to see its share reduced by the growing
importance of offshore operations benefitting from a special depletion
allowance. The oil companies, on thie other hand, are concerned about the Gcv-
ernmentts apparent intention to abolish the depletion allowance on marine
production and to enact a conservation law which could possibly interfere with
the most economic use of oil resources.



24.    'The oil industry, important as it is as a source of government
revenue and foreign exchange receipts, is not likely to absorb much of the
rapidly increasing labor force.  Industry and agricultPre will no doubt
expand, but prospects for rapidly increasing exports are not good and the
substitution of locally produced for imported goods is limited by the size
of the domestic market. The Government hopes that the proposed customs
union among the constituent territories of the Federation might to some ex-
tent improve marketing prospects for Trinidad products.
25.     in recent years, the financial position of Trinidad and Tobago has
been very favorable. Most of the Government's capital expenditure has been
paid from the current budget surplus and statutory corporations have financed
expansion largely out of earnings. Domestic savings have been accruing at a
reasonable rate and public investment not paid for out of revenue has been
financed with the proceeds of a successful internal issue of long-term 6L-%
bonds made in late 1959 and early 1960.
26.     Current budget expenditure is expected to increase rapidly in 1961.
Salaries and wages, the cost of maintaining and operating recently expanded
public services, and debt service are mainly responsible for this trend.   On
the other hand, government revenue is not expected to be much higher than
last year.  Consequently, the current budget surplus will probably be reduced
to modest proportions.
27.     At the same time, the Government is raising the rate of cai;ital ex-
penditure in an endeavor to accelerate development in the face of rapid
population growth. Although new methods of mobilizing domestic savings are
being actively studied, recourse to external borrowing has also become
necessary.
28.     Trinidad and Tobago have not borrowed abroad since 1954. Their
public external debt is very small, so small in fact that the proposed Bank
loan would double it. Service payments amount to less than 1% of annual
merchandise exports and if imports of crude oil and transfers of profits are
deducted from these, the ratio equals 2%. The Territory thus has a wide
margin of borrowing capacity and a good justification for contracting abroad
additional obLigations, as long as this is not done hastily and indiscriminate-
ly, and as long as the money is put into good projects.
29.     The United Kingdom wJould guarantee the proposed loan. The outstanding
total of loans made so far by the Bank to dependent territories of the United
Kingdom with its guarantee, now amounting to about $200 million, is relatively
small. The annual service payments on the United Kingdom's public external
debt, including the guaranteed debt, amount to about 2% of the United lingdont's
gross annual receipts from current external transactions.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMIENT
30.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the requirements
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



-6-
PART VTI - REMCI Li  TTIOG>S
31.     I recommend that the 3ank at this time make a loan to the Territory
of Trinidad and Tobago in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$2305 million for a total term of twenty years, with interest (including
commission) at 5-3/4h per annum and on such other terms as are specified in
the attached draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements,and that the Executive
Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in the form attached (N4o. 10).
Eugene R. Black
President
kugust 7, 1961
Washington, D.C.
Attachments



