CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 807 VE
Guarantee Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 13, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 807 VE
Guarantee Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 13, 1972


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,      dated  March    13,  1972, between REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank
has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Bonds; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally


﻿4
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption
of the Bonds prior to their maturity, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and
in the Bonds.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized representatives
of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes to provide to the
Borrower counterpart funds for the carrying out of the Project in an amount of
not less than one hundred and nineteen million seven hundred thousand Bolivares
(Bs 119,700,000) in accordance with the provisions of Ley que Autoriza al Banco
de Desarrollo Agropecuario S.A. a Realizar un Plan de Desarrollo Ganadero as
published in Gaceta Oficial No. 29,712 of the Guarantor dated January 19, 1972.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Guarantor (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds and
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect.
The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.


﻿5
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any of its political subdivisions, of any agency of the Guarantor
or of any such poiitical subdivision.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take, or cause or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of
any such political subdivisions to take, any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessL'N or
appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor undertakes to cause all cattle on ranches for
which the Borrower shall make sub-loans to be regularly vaccinated against
foot-and-mouth disease.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
Section 4.01. The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end the Guarantor
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party: (i) exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under the Guarantee Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) furnish to the other all such information
as it shall reasonably request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On
the part of the Guarantor, such information shall include information with respect
to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Guarantor, including
its balance of payments, and the external debt of the Guarantor, of any of its
political subdivisions and of any agency of the Guarantor or of any such political
subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(b)   The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 5.02. The Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement, any
instrument made pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, issue,
delivery or registration thereof and the Guarantor shall, in respect of any instrument
made pursuant to such Section 3.01, pay all such taxes, if any, imposed under
the laws of any other country or countries.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
or moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in
effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Republic of Venezuela
Ministro de Hacienda
Caracas
Venezuela


﻿7
Cable address:
Minhacienda
Caracas
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Julio Sosa-Rodriguez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


