LOAN 1NUMBER 293 TR
Guarantee Agreement
(Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 16, 1961


﻿LOAN NUMBER 293 TR
Guarantee Agreement
(Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 16, 1961


﻿AGREEMENT, dated August 16, 1961, between UNITED
KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND (here-
inafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Territory of Trinidad and Tobago (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, which agreement (including
the schedules therein referred to) is hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the Bor-
rower a loan in various currencies in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twenty-three million five hundred
thousand dollars ($23,500,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to guarantee such loan as hereinafter provided;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as fol-
lows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement
accept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated February 15, 1961, subject, however, to the
modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan
Agreement (such Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified
being hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and
other charges on, the Loan, the principal of and interest on
the Bonds, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of
the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds, all as provided in
the Loan Agreement and the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Whenever there is reasonable cause to be-
lieve that the Borrower will not have sufficient funds to
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in accord-
ance with the Loan Agreement, the Guarantor will, in con-
sultation with the Bank and the Borrower, take appropriate
measures to assist the Borrower to obtain the additional
funds necessary therefor.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual understanding of the
Guarantor and the Bank that, except as otherwise herein
provided, the Guarantor will not grant in favor of any
external debt any preference or priority over the Loan.
To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except as
otherwise herein provided or a- shall be otherwise agreed
between the Guarantor and the Bank, if any lien shall be
created on any assets or revenues of the Guarantor as secu-
rity for any external debt, such lien shall equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in
the creation of any such lien express provision shall be
made to that effect. This Section shall not apply to the
following:
(a) the creation of any lien on any property purchased,
at the time of the purchase, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿(b) any lien on commercial goods to secure a debt ma-
turing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred and to be paid out
of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or
(c) any pledge by or on behalf of the Guarantor of any
of its assets in the ordinary course of banking busi-
ness to secure any indebtedness maturing not more
than one year after its date.
For the purpose of this Section, the expression "assets
or revenues of the Guarantor" shall include assets or
revenues of any territorial subdivision of the Guarantor
which has power to raise revenues by taxation and to
charge such revenues or any of its assets as security for
external debt.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall
cooperate fully towards achievement of the purposes of the
Loan. To that end, each of them   shall furnish to the
other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part
of the Guarantor, such information shall include informa-
tion with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Guarantor and the international balance
of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) Within the limits of its constitutional powers, the
Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for ac-
credited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of


﻿6
the territories of the Guarantor (including those of the
Borrower) for purposes related to the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of the Guarantor; provided, however, that the provi-
sions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of pay-
ments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than
the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an in-
dividual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement and
the Bonds shall be free from any taxes that shall be im-
posed under the laws of the Guarantor on or in connection
with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 3.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free
from all restrictions now or at any time hereafter imposed
under the laws of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Loan Regulations, its
guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by
the Borrower. The Secretary of the Treasury of the
Guarantor and such person or persons as he shall designate
in writing are designated as the authorized representatives
of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 6.12 (b) of
the Loan Regulations.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Guarantor:
H. M. Treasury
Treasury Chambers
Great George Street
London, S.W. 1, United Kingdom
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Profilist
London
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 5.02. The Ambassador of the Guarantor to the
United States of America is designated for the purposes
of Section 8.03 of the Loan Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their re-
spective names, and to be delivered in the District of


﻿8
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND
By /s/ HAROLD CACCIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. B. ILIFF
Vice-President


