Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3124 PH
             (Angat Water Supply Optimization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
            METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
                      Dated November 9, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3124 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 9,  1989 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and METROPOLITAN
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Republic  of  the Philippines (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends   to   contract  from  the  Asian
Development Bank (the ADB) a loan  (the  ADB Loan) in an amount of
one hundred thirty  million  Dollars  ($130,000,000)  to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the ADB  Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and ADB;
     (C)  the Guarantor has also  applied to the Overseas Economic
Cooperation  Fund  of  Japan  (OECF)  for  a  loan  in  the amount
equivalent  to  eighty  million  Dollars  ($80,000,000)  which the
Guarantor will make available to  the Borrower as equity (the OECF
Page  2
Financing) for the purposes of the Project;
     (D)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Development  Program"  means  the  Development  Program
dated August 3, 1989 of the Borrower approved by the Administrator
of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Engineering Area"  means  the  Engineering  Area of the
Borrower responsible for the design and planning of projects;
     (c)  "NRW"  means  non-revenue  water  being  the  difference
between: (i) the total water distributed, and (ii) the total water
sold by the Borrower;
     (d)  "PMO" means  the  Project  Management Office established
under the Deputy Administrator  for Construction Management of the
Borrower referred to in Schedule 5 Part A (2);
     (e)  "Project  Area"  means  the   area  of  the  cities  and
municipalities within the  service  area  of  the  Borrower in the
Metropolitan Manila Area and environs; and
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the amount  of  forty million Dollars ($40,000,000),
being the sum of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part A of the
Page  3
Project, open and maintain in Dollars  a special account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
          principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a  rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings  determined  in respect of such
          Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
Page  4
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
engineering  and  public  utility  practices,  and  shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The  Borrower  shall,  in  accordance with the
Development Program, take all measures  to reduce NRW to below 49%
in 1991, 46% in 1992, 43% in  1993  and 40% in 1994.  The Borrower
and  the  Bank  shall  review  the  achievement  of  these targets
annually.
     Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall,  in  accordance with the
Development Program, upgrade its  customer services and connection
monitoring by December 31, 1990.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31, 1993,
improve its  operational  system  by:  (a)  establishing a central
control operating  room,  including  remote  metering devices; (b)
making operational the computer simulation of the transmission and
distribution networks; and (c) installing pressure-reducing valves
in zones with excessive pressures.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1990 reduce
and thereafter maintain its  accounts receivable below four months
of billing.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall,  in addition to the reports
required to be furnished pursuant  to  Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, provide the Bank with copies of the following reports:
(a) Management Information System  on water and sewerage services,
revenues, operational costs,  financial projections and monitoring
indicators, in April and October  of  each year; and (b) its long-
term plans and updated water demand, annually.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  5
     Section 4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  continue  to develop its
institutional capabilities by carrying out the Development Program
regarding, inter  alia,  water  supply,  sewerage  and sanitation,
water demand and tariff adjustment.
     Section 4.03. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers  insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
Page  6
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall earn an  annual  return  on the average current net
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation of not less than
8% per year.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               the Borrower's net operating  income for the fiscal
               year in question  by  one  half  of  the sum of the
               current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
               operation at the beginning  and  at the end of that
               fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from  all  sources  related  to  water  supply  and
               sewerage operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses  related  to  water  supply  and  sewerage
               operations,   including   administration,  adequate
               maintenance,  franchise   tax   and  provision  for
               depreciation on a straight-line  basis at a rate of
               not less than 2%  per  annum of the average current
               gross  value  of  the  Borrower's  fixed  assets in
               operation, or other  basis  acceptable to the Bank,
               but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average current  gross  value of the Borrower's
               fixed assets in  operation  shall  be calculated as
               one-half of  the  sum  of  the  gross  value of the
               Borrower's fixed  assets  in  the  water supply and
               sewerage operation at the  beginning and at the end
               of the  fiscal  year,  as  revalued  annually as of
               December 31 of each  fiscal year in accordance with
               sound  and   consistently   maintained  methods  of
               valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed
               assets in operation" means  the  gross value of the
               Borrower's  fixed  assets   in   water  supply  and
               sewerage operation less  the  amount of accumulated
               depreciation, as valued annually  as of December 31
               of each fiscal  year  in  accordance with sound and
               consistently   maintained   methods   of  valuation
               satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  In order to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) of this Section, the  Borrower  shall: (i) carry out annually,
beginning in 1990, a  review  of  the  level  and structure of its
water and sewerage tariffs and  other  charges; (ii) by October 30
each year, furnish the results of  such review to the Bank for its
comments; and  (iii)  implement  any  recommendations derived from
such review.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any  debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues  and  expenditures  of  the  Borrower  shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to  be  incurred  shall be at least 1.2 times
the estimated debt service  requirements  of  the Borrower in such
year on  all  debt  of  the  Borrower  including  the  debt  to be
incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
Page  7
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by the  Borrower  not  earlier than twelve
               months prior  to  the  incurrence  of  the  debt in
               question, which  both  the  Bank  and  the Borrower
               accept as reasonable and  as  to which the Bank has
               notified  the   Borrower   of   its  acceptability,
               provided that  no  event  has  occurred  since such
               notification  which  has,   or  may  reasonably  be
               expected in the future  to have, a material adverse
               effect  on  the   financial   condition  or  future
               operating results of the Borrower.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely:
     (a)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw or
Page  8
                    receive the proceeds of any loan or investment
                    made to or for the benefit of the Borrower for
                    the financing of  the  Project shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such investment  or  loan  shall have been
                    liquidated or become due  and payable prior to
                    the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination,  liquidation  or  prematuring  is  not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  Republic Act No. 6234  of  the Guarantor shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the  ability  of  the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
the events specified in  paragraph  (a)  (i)  (B) of Section 6.01,
subject to the proviso of paragraph  (a) (ii) of that Section, and
paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  7.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent  to the effectiveness of the
ADB Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those, if
any, related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 7.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Administrator of the Borrower is designated
as  representative   of   the   Borrower   for   the  purposes  of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
Page  9
                                              Telefax:
                                                  (202) 477-6391
     For the Borrower:
          Metropolitan Waterworks
             and Sewerage System
          Katipunan Road, Balara
          Quezon City 1105
          Republic of the Philippines
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MWSS                              27947 PH
               Manila
                                              Telefax:
                                                 (632) 921-2887
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
                    By /s/ Vicente R. Jayme
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under          31,100,000     70%
     Part A (except
     Part 5 A of
     aqueduct 5) of
     the Project
(2)  Equipment and               5,900,000     100% of foreign
     materials under                           expenditures,
     Part A (except                            100% of local
     Part 5 A of                               expenditures
Page  10
     aqueduct 5) of                            (ex-factory
     the Project                               cost) and 65%
                                               of local expen-
                                               ditures for other
                                               items procured
                                               locally
(3)  Unallocated                 3,000,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $4,000,000,  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made for
expenditures before the date  of  this  Agreement but after May 1,
1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of   the   Project   are   to:  (a)  provide
construction  of  raw  water  transmission,  water  treatment  and
distribution facilities  for  an  additional  supply  of  15 cubic
meters per second  (cums)  for  an  additional population of about
three million persons in  the  Project  Area; (b) increase service
coverage to 75% of  the  total  population  in the Project Area by
1994,  particularly  in   poor   neighborhoods;  (c)  improve  the
efficiency of the  Borrower's  operations;  and (d) strengthen the
Borrower's  finances  as  well  as  its  planning  and  management
information system.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Transmission and Bulk Water Supply.
     Construction of (i) a  tunnel  from  Ipo  Dam to Bicti (about
6 km long, 4.3 m diameter); (ii) aqueduct 5 (in three Parts 5A, 5B
and 5C) from Bicti to La  Mesa treatment plants (about 16 km long,
3.6 m diameter); (iii) second  La  Mesa bypass (about 2.5 km long,
3.6 diameter); and  (iv)  water  mains  (about  35  km) to provide
treated water (about 1.1  cums)  in  bulk  to about eight towns in
Bulacan Province.
Part B:   Water Source, Treatment and Distribution Facilities.
     (i) Construction of  the  La  Mesa  II treatment plant (about
10.4 cums); (ii) modification  of  the  power  station in order to
release  additional  water  from  Angat  for  water  supply; (iii)
expansion of  the  primary  and  secondary  distribution system by
about 420 km; (iv)  expansion  of the tertiary distribution system
by about 100 km  and  provision  of  about 345,000 service connec-
tions; (v) construction of water  reservoirs (about 260,000 cu m);
and (vi) provision of telemetering.
Part C:   Consultants' Services.
Page  11
     Provision  of  engineering   consultancy   services  for  the
Project.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1995                                        730,000
December 15, 1995                                    755,000
June 15, 1996                                        785,000
December 15, 1996                                    815,000
June 15, 1997                                        850,000
December 15, 1997                                    880,000
June 15, 1998                                        915,000
December 15, 1998                                    950,000
June 15, 1999                                        990,000
December 15, 1999                                  1,025,000
June 15, 2000                                      1,065,000
December 15, 2000                                  1,105,000
June 15, 2001                                      1,150,000
December 15, 2001                                  1,195,000
June 15, 2002                                      1,240,000
December 15, 2002                                  1,290,000
June 15, 2003                                      1,340,000
December 15, 2003                                  1,390,000
June 15, 2004                                      1,445,000
December 15, 2004                                  1,500,000
June 15, 2005                                      1,560,000
December 15, 2005                                  1,620,000
June 15, 2006                                      1,680,000
December 15, 2006                                  1,745,000
June 15, 2007                                      1,815,000
December 15, 2007                                  1,885,000
June 15, 2008                                      1,955,000
December 15, 2008                                  2,030,000
June 15, 2009                                      2,110,000
December 15, 2009                                  2,185,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
Page  12
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided  in  Part  C  hereof,  goods and works for
Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic of
the  Philippines  may  be  granted   a  margin  of  preference  in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and  paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil  works  contracts  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the
equivalent of $2,000,000 per  contract,  up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent  of $3,800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost not more than $100,000 each, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $900,000, may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  works  and goods
estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of  $2,000,000 and $500,000 or
more respectively, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
Page  13
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  20%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Part A:   Implementing Agencies
1.   The Borrower shall maintain  the Engineering Area which shall
be responsible for all  matters  related to technical planning and
design.  The  Engineering  Area  shall  be  adequately  funded and
staffed and shall be assigned such functions and powers, as may be
necessary to carry out the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall  adequately  fund  and  staff and maintain
PMO which shall  be  responsible  for  the  general management and
supervision of the  Project.  PMO  shall  be  headed  by a Project
Director assisted  by  three  Project  Managers  and  their staff,
who shall  be  separately  responsible  for  (a)  the  power plant
and tunnel; (b)  aqueducts,  treatment  plant  and reservoirs; and
(c) distribution system, telemetering and the Bulacan system.
3.   The Borrower shall cause  PMO  to closely coordinate with the
Engineering   Area   on   engineering   aspects   during   Project
implementation.
Part B:   Implementation Schedule
1.   All  designs  under  the   Project   shall  be  completed  by
December 31, 1990.
2.   The power station, tunnel,  and  aqueducts shall be completed
by June 30, 1992.
3.   The treatment plant shall be completed by December 31, 1992.
4.   The distribution system  together  with the additional supply
of about 15 cubic meters  per  second (cums) shall be completed by
December 31, 1994.
5.   Unless otherwise agreed to  by  the Bank, the Borrower shall,
by December 31, 1990,  conclude  an  agreement with National Power
Corporation (NPC) providing for  compensation  to NPC for loss, if
any, attributable to the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
Page  14
respect of the reasonable cost  of  civil works and goods required
for Part A of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to three million  dollars  ($3,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories  for  Part  A  of the Project, less theamount of any 
outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General Conditions with
respect to the Project,  shall  equal  the equivalent of twice the
Page  15
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories for Part A of  the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by  notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
