Document of              FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2657-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
TO BE GUARANTEED
BY
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
November 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1979)
Currency Unit           -         New Uruguayan Peso (NUr$)
NUr$j                   '         100 Centavos (ctv)
NUr$7.7                 =         US$1
NUr$1,000                         US$129.80
NUr$1,000,000                     US$129,800.00
MUS$                              US$1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MESURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
UTE     -   Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas
ANTEL   -   Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
CTM     .   Comision Tecaica Mixta del Salto Grande
COMIPAL -   Comision Mixta del Palmar
IDB     -   Inter-American Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones
Electricas (UTE)
Guarantor:           Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Amount:              US$24 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 7.95% per annum
Program and Project
Description:       UTE's development program consists of the installation by
1983 of about 680 km of transmission lines, about 2,030 km
of distribution lines, 251 substations to increase service
of consumers from the present 790,000 to about 900,000
by 1983. The project comprises a portion of the 1980-83
works for: (a) renovation and expansion of distribution
networks in Montevideo; (b) expansion and some renovation
of distribution networks in the interior; and (c) con-
sultant services for project management and studies
concerning management, tariffs, development program,
internal auditing and management information systems,
and the energy sector.
Project Objectives: (a) Helping finance major investments in the distribution
facilities of UTE; (b) improving the operational efficiency
of UTE by renovating the distribution network in Montevideo
and phasing out uneconomical local diesel generating plants
in the interior; (c) improving UTE's management efficiency
and financial practices through new legislation, regula-
tions and assistance from consultants; and (d) improving
sector policies through appropriate legislative changes,
an energy sector study, a development study and a tariff
study.
Benefits and Risks: The project would encompass investments in distribution
facilities necessary to improve quality of service and
meet forecast demand growth, accompanying the sustained
recovery of the economy, utilizing the energy production
of the hydro power plants of Salto Grande and Palmar.
The distribution facilities would bring this energy to
the final consumers, reduce 1 ses and improve the effi-
ciency of UTE's operations anl the reliability ef services.
The project is not expected to have any adverse effects on
the environment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc
of their ofF,cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dischosed without World Bank au,horization.



- ii -
The program involves major institutional changes that are
aimed at reversing UTE's financial and institutional
problems of the past ten years. Given the difficulties
of implementing changes that involve major departures from
long-standing practices, these institutional changes may
not be fully achieved. To limit such a risk as much as
possible, the authorities and the Bank agreed that the
Bank loan would cover the investment requirements for a
two-year period, which should enable the parties concerned
to review the progress made and take any necessary correc-
tive actions hence.
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
----------US$     - 000 …-
1.  Montevideo Distribution                  6.0         9.2      15.2
2.  Interior Distribution                   17.0         7.8      24.8
3.  Consultants                              2.2         3.4       5.6
4.  Base Cost (1 + 2 + 3)                   25.2        20.4      45.6
5. Physical Contingencies
(10% of 1 + 2)                        2.3         1.7        4.0
6.  Price Contingencies                      0.9         1.9       2.8
7.  Totals                                  28.5       24.0       52.5
The cost of UTE's 1980-83 development program, however, is US$324
million.
Financing Plan:      The US$24 million Bank loan would finance the foreign
exchange costs of materials and equipment procured under
international competitive bidding arrangements as well
as 90% of the cost of consulting services. The remainder
of the project costs will be financed by UTE through
internally generated resources.



- iii -
Rate of Return:      Since the project is intimately related with the rest of
UTE's development program, it is not possible to make an
economic evaluation of the project, taken in isolation.
A least-cost comparison has been made to justify the
replacement of localized diesel generation by supply from
the interconnected system. The equalizing discount rate,
up to which the present value of all costs related to
supply from the interconnected system would be lower than
the present value of all costs of isolated (diesel)
supply, is about 18%. The rate of return on the 1980-83
*                              UTE development program is 7%.  This may underestimate the
economic benefits of the program, since the calculation is
based on the tariffs being charged by UTE. While these
tariffs are adequate to cover UTE's financial requirements,
over the long run they may have to be raised to cover
marginal cost.
Disbursements:                    ----------(US$ million)---------
FY80            FY81          FY82
2.0            15.9           6.1
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2022b-UR, dated November 26, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN FOR A FIFTH POWER PROJECT TO
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS (CUTE)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas (UTE) with the
guarantee of the Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$24.0
million to help finance the proposed Fifth Power Project. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest of 7.95% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uruguay in May 1979.  The section below
reflects the findings of this mission and its report is expected to be distri-
buted in December 1979. The previous Economic Memorandum (2241-UR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1978. A summary of Country
Basic Data is attached as Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy deteri-
orated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of policies that
favored urban consumption and high-cost industrial import substitution at the
expense of investment, exports and growth. A well-educated and preclominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment, better
public services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands took
the form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies that resulted in a
sustained transfer of income out of the resource-rich agricultural and live-
stock sector mainly into consumption by the urban population. Industrial sector
development, initially stimulated by shortages of consumer goods during World
War II, was fostered through a deliberate import substitution and protection
policy during the immediate post-war era. However economic growth ifaltered as
agricultural production, productivity and exports declined after the Korean War.
Moreover, industrial import substitution possibilities in the small domestic
market were largely exhausted. Unemployment and underemployment rose sharply.
Government policies aimed at maintaining urban income and consumption levels
resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital flight and serious misalloca-
tion of resources. During the early 1970s, political and social unrest marked
by urban terrorism and labor strife further discouraged savings, investment and
any initiative to expand output and exports.
4.        Uruguay had instituted comprehensive welfare legislation in the
1920s when the potential from livestock seemed inexhaustible. Progressive
legislation covering such areas as social security retirement and survivors'
pensions, job security, unemployment compensation, free health and education
services provided mechanisms for redistributing income. Uruguay was thus able
to achieve a relatively high level of social progress as evidenced by an in-
come distribution pattern which compares favorably with that of many developed



countries. Although Uruguay experienced a drop in per capita income during
the 1960s and early 1970s, the country has attained levels that are comparable
to those of some developed countries and above those of most developing
countries in health (life expectancy at birth of 70 years), education (94%
literacy rate), and nutrition (per capita intake of protein of 100 grams per
day).
5.        The redistribution mechanisms were not, however, immune to economic
instability--and, in effect, contributed to it. The uncoordinated growth of
the social security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant
economy and rapid inflation, caused increasing stress on the country's resources.
Larger transfers from the Central Government were increasingly needed to
provide decreasing real benefits to a larger number of people. In addition
to the financial burden on the Government, the high level of contributions
required by the system from employers increased the real cost of labor.
This high cost, coupled with the incentives to the use of caDital inherent in
the import substitution strategy, acted as a brake on the- creation of employ-
ment. Moreover, the inadequate level of real benefits, together with the old
age structure of the population, resulted in a large number of peole 'working
past retirement age (though as retirement was at 55 years, th4s Wal not neces-
sarily a great burden) and this further limited employment onz>ort'mrties for
the groups entering the labor force.
6.        The structural changes in the world economy that emerged in kate
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy.  The threefo5d i-cr!zase in
the price of imported oil (upon which the country is entirely depe.e>
substantial increases in other import prices, and the closin-  of $-he -prrean
Economic Community to meat imports contributed to a sharp  e--es         . T he
balance of payments, a precipitous deterioration of fiEcal -er'    lce and to
an acceleration of domestic inflation.  The economic team                fr, mid-1974
recognized that long-term solutions to the country's econom c _         sem went
beyond stabilization and required a fundamental reorientat- A of          o e-emic
management away from an inward-looking towards an export-o sent-d dev>zlopment
strategy.  The basic objectives of the new program uqere the  rovent of
resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater reliance on the
price mechanism, and the promotion and diversification of nontrad-itional
exports, i.e., those other than beef and wool.  The achievement of these
objectives required the freeing of domestic prices and the liberalization of
the foreign trade and payment system from the burdensome controls instituted
in the past.
7.        The rapid implementation of export-oriented development measures
yielded unexpectedly rapid and positive results in 1975-78, enabling Uruguay
to surpass most of the performance targets embodied in three successive standby
agreements with the IMF. Government economic policy during this period con-
centrated on fostering growth in the commodity-producing sectors by eliminating
various types of controls that distorted resource allocation, and by achieving
a more realistic exchange rate in order to promote exports. Quantitative and
financial controls on imports of raw materials and capital goods were elimi-
nated; price ceilings on many domestic products were lifted; interest rates on
deposits and loans were freed; and nontraditional exports were successfully
stimulated through a policy of minidevaluations and the establishment of a



- 3 -
system of tax rebates. Reversing policies that prevailed for thirty years, the
government eliminated controls on pricing and marketing of agricultural goods
in the third quarter of 1978. While the immediate effect of the removal of
the ceiling was to increase beef prices by about 20%, the differencle between
international and domestic prices, the measure should help in the medium term to
improve efficiency in the sector and lead to higher supplies, without undermining
the Government's anti-inflation program. In continuation of its liberalization
policies, the Government reduced maximum levels of import duties an,l surcharges
in January 1979.
8.        The economy responded to these changed policies by achieving an
annual average GDP growth of about 3.2% during 1974-78, compared with an
annual decline of 0.2% during the previous four years. Gross domestic invest-
ment also increased from an average of 13.5% of GDP in the period 1970-74 to
18.3% in 1977/78. Production of nontraditional exports, particularly leather
and textile manufactures, led the recovery of the economy and was instrumental
in initiating a remarkable turnaround in the external sector which has contin-
ued since 1976. As a result the current account balance continued as the
deficit declined from US$190 million in 1975 to an average of US$85 million
during 1976-78, which together with strong private capital inflows, resulting
in increasing gains in net foreign exchange reserves of US$112 million,
US$154 million and US$181 million in 1976, 1977 and 1978, respectively,
compared with a loss of US$65 million in 1975. Moreover, the infla-
tion rate had been reduced to an average of about 50% in 1976-78, from a level
of 67% in 1975 and 107% in 1974, owing to a combination of more restrictive
monetary management and incomes policy, and--above all--improving fiscal
performance. The Central Government fiscal deficit was reduced from 4.5% of
GDP in 1974-75, to 2.5% in 1976, notably surpassing the target of 3.4% stipu-
lated in a standby agreement with the IMF. The marked fiscal improvement was
brought about by a combination of increased collection of revenues from the
value-added tax and IMPROME (a tax on imputed income on agricultural land),
and restraint of current expenditures.
9.        The Central Government's fiscal situation continued to improve
in 1977-78 (an average overall deficit of 1.2% of GDP). The policy of wage
restraint enabled the Government to restrict current expenditures and finance
a larger investment program. The Government's wage policy has also been
instrumental in maintaining a relatively low level of inflation during 1976-78
as compared to 1974-75.  The increased inflationary pressures in 1977, caused
by a poor harvest and the monetary expansion resulting from accumulation of
foreign exchange reserves, were controlled through monetary measures introduced
in late 1977. As a result, the rate of inflation declined from 57% in 1977 to
46% in 1978.
10.       During the latter part of 1978 and in early 1979, the Government
freed the livestock industry from price and marketing controls and initiated
a process of tariff reduction. Private sector investment responded strongly
to these moves and together with increased demand arising from capital inflows
and tourists has resulted in a strong surge in economic activity. While the
balance of payments position and the fiscal situation remain favorable, in-
creased economic activity has been accompanied by the rate of inflation
increasing to about 80% in 1979. The Government has opted for a high growth



- 4 -
strategy and believes that the rate of inflation will decline only gradually
as the restructuring of the economy and its program of import liberalization
are completed.
Economic Prospects
11.       The Government is attempting to shift the economic structure towards
a more open, export-oriented model. This shift is by no means easy in view of
the deep-seated rigidities which Uruguay's economy has acquired over the last
thirty years. High tariff protection and highly segmented public sector
management continue to hamper growth. Nevertheless, the success in stimulating
economic activity and turning around the balance of payments during the last
four years attests to the economy's responsiveness to a consistent set of
signals as the price mechanism is allowed to operate more freely. The key to
sustained growth for the future will depend on the Government's ability to
consolidate the recent gains through longer-term policies. Uruguay's long and
difficult experience in pursuing income distribution policies in the face of a
stagnant economy has led the authorities to give utmost priority over the
coming years to sustained growth.
12.       In broad terms, government policies aim to provide a propitious
economic environment for the fuller use of such advantages as the country's
highly literate labor force, its strategic location between Argentina and
Brazil, and a natural resource endowment suited to export-oriented agricultural
production, including the traditional livestock industry as well as the
largely untapped potential in crop production, food processing and fisheries.
13.       Provided that the sound orientation of fiscal, monetary and trade
policies already instituted is consolidated, the Uruguayan economy has the
capacity to grow at faster rates than in recent years (possibly some 5% p.a.
compared to about 1.0% during 1971-78). The expansion of both traditional
and nontraditional exports should provide the main impetus for growth. Beef
and wool exports will benefit from the recently enacted price and marketing
liberalization measures, the reasonably favorable price outlook, and the
successful penetration of new markets in recent years. Sustained growth of
manufacturing output and nontraditional exports should be possible with the
further development of such subsectors as leather products, textiles, processed
foods, fish and other manufacturing goods. Private sector investment should
provide the principal impulse for growth in the coming years in the form of the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing production units
rather than the establishment of new, large-scale ventures. The public sector
is expected to play a key supporting role by mobilizing financial resources,
rehabilitation of infrastructure and complementary services to the productive
sectors.
14.       Export expansion and diversification will require the modernization
of the country's capital stock. This implies heavy import requirements for key
infrastructure, new plant and equipment, rehabilitation of the existing stock,
and related intermediate inputs. Imports are also expected to increase as a
result of the Government's import liberalization policy. A rapid growth in



imports is to be expected under these policies possibly resulting in a trade
deficit averaging about US$140 million during 1980-82. With the development
of hydroelectric energy sources the volume of petroleum imports can be expected
to slow down and together with the expansion of beef exports, result in a
smaller trade deficits after 1983. The above trade projections combined with
steadily increasing net factor payments on public and private borrowing would
result in a widening of the current account deficit from an average of US$70
million during 1976-78 to an annual average of US$235 million in 1980-82.
Expansion of beef exports in 1982-83 in conjunction with reduced petroleum
imports may be expected to reduce the projected current account deficit to
about US$200 million by 1983. The current account deficits projected are
moderate and should lead to a further enhancement of Uruguay's creditworthiness
and to more favorable terms on external credits than in the recent past. The
relatively moderate gross external capital requirements for 1979-83 (estimated
at an annual average of US$225 million) can be expected to come partly from
existing and new commitments of multilateral and bilateral agencies. Private
financial institutions, suppliers' credits and Government bonds would provide
the major portion of the remainder.
15.       The remarkable turnaround in Uruguay's balance of payments since
1976 has enabled the authorities to amortize or refinance various commit-
ments contracted on unfavorable terms during the previous years. The volume
of commitments contracted during 1974-75, their relatively unfavorable
terms and prepayments of hard term loans resulted in a debt service ratio
of about 28% in 1977 and about 46% in 1978. However, such prepayments have
improved Uruguay's debt profile and the debt service ratio for the period
1979-83 is projected to be 12-13%. Under these circumstances, UrugtLay
would remain creditworthy for the amounts of external capital required to
rehabilitate the country's capital stock and to achieve sustained economic
and social progress.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
16.       Uruguay has received US$229.1 million (net of cancellations) in
Bank loans. As of September 30, 1979, the Bank held US$119.1 million, including
US$45.1 million undisbursed. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance t:o Uruguay
(15 loans in total) has mainly been for power (36%) and livestock (31%), with
some lending for industry (9%), transport (20%) as well as vocational training
and technological development (4%). IFC has carried out three operations in
Uruguay: to Fabrica Uruguaya de Neumaticos S.A. (US$3.8 million) to introduce
radial tire production, increase tire manufacturing capacity and improve operat-
ing efficiency and product quality; to Acodyke Supergas S.A. (US$950,000) to
help finance a new liquid petroleum gas bottling plant; and to Astra Pesquerias
Uruguayas, S.A. (US$4.5 million and up to US$0.9 million in equity) to help
finance an integrated fishing and processing project. Execution of these
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary of
Bank loans as of September 30, 1979 and IFC investments as of October 31, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Past lending for power is
discussed in paras. 31-33.



-6-
17.       Bank lending in Uruguay in FY78 consisted of a loan of US$9.7 million
equivalent for a Vocational Training and Technological Development Project.
In FY79, a loan of US$26.5 million was approved in April for a Second Highway
Project. In addition, work is underway on ports and agriculture projects for
possible consideration by the Executive Directors within the next few months.
18.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the
Government in implementing an economic strategy designed to put the economy
on a path of sustained growth. Towards this end, all operations are aimed
at policies and programs which will support the continued recovery of the
economy within a framework of financial stability. More specifically, the
objectives of the Bank's program are to: (i) assist projects leading to
increased output, including those involving the expansion and diversification
of exports; (ii) help strengthen the country's sectoral policies and public
sector institutions; (iii) rehabilitate the country's infrastructure in
particular to promote the integration of the economy with the large markets of
neighboring Argentina and Brazil, as well as with overseas markets; and (iv)
assist the country to develop policies and programs to diversify its sources
of energy.
19.       The proposed project as well as those planned in transport and tele-
communications are designed to support the Government's effort to rehabilitate
the economy through improvements in infrastructure thus assisting sustained
economic growth, rising income and employment. Bank lending for power and
other energy projects is aimed at helping the country meet its growing energy
demands, while increasing the reliance on local energy sources and improving
the financial and institutional performance of the power company and other
entities in the sector. The transport and telecommunications projects will
also assist Uruguay's efforts to integrate with its neighbors (Brazil and
Argentina), which are its major trading partners and improve contacts with
other countries. Bank lending for agriculture is directed at increasing crop
production to assist Uruguay in achieving self-sufficiency in grains and in
increasing and diversifying its export earnings. Bank assistance for industry,
including vocational training and technological development, is designed to
help expand non-traditional exports, the principal motor of economic growth;
at the same time, the Bank will continue to emphasize the importance of dis-
mantling and lowering the cumbersome tariff and import regulation structure
which is necessary to increase the efficiency of the sector. Lending for
education would provide needed investments in the sector, especially at the
secondary level, and help make it more responsive to long-term manpower
requirements of the economy.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
20.       Uruguay has no coal or geothermal resources, small proven gas and
oil reserves, (although exploratory works are being carried out) and relatively
few hydroelectric power resources -- which are, by and large, either already
utilized or are in the process of being developed. The Government is committed
to rhe objective of reducing the reliance on imported fuel. At present,
Uru.uav imnpcrts about 14 million barrels of petroleum per year, which accounts
for nearly a third of total merchandise imports.



- 7 -
21.       Uruguay has been one of the countries in Latin America most affected
by the energy crisis. The threefold increase in oil prices is reflected in
a sharp jump of fuel imports, from US$55 million in 1973 to US$227 million
in 1977 and US$230 million in 1978, thereby contributing to the country's
sizeable balance of payments deficit. Nearly 20% of all fuel imports are used
for power generation. To reduce the reliance on imported fuels, the Government
is committed to developing alternative sources of energy by exploit:ing to the
fullest extent the available hydropower resources. The power system expansion
for the next five years includes the completion of the Salto Grande Hydroplant
(1,890 MW) jointly with Argentina on the Uruguay River, and the Paimar Hydroplant
(300 MW) being built on the Negro River. The first two units (270 MW) of
Salto Grande will supply power to Uruguay, which has the option to use up to
five additional 135 MW units. The first unit of the Salto Grande Hydroplant
is already in operation and the Palmar dam is scheduled for commissioning in
1982; this should meet expected demand growth while allowing a significant
reduction in fuel requirements. However, because both the Rio Negro and the
Rio Uruguay are subject to extreme hydrological variations, UTE may have to
build additional thermal capacity to ensure a firm availability of supply.
The proposed project would include the preparation of a sector development
program which would address this problem. The present expansion program
includes high priority complementary investments by UTE, to expand the existing
capacity of the transmission and distribution system. The system expansion
program will permit UTE to meet the anticipated power demand generaLted by the
revitalized economy and to improve quality of service, which is prE!sently poor
due to past low levels of maintenance.
Organization and Regulation
22.       Uruguay's electric power policy is determined through the! Ministry
of Industry and Energy. Electricity rates are approved by Presidential
decree, with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Secretariatt of Plan-
ning intervening in their determination; primary decision-making powers are,
however, vested in the latter. UTE presently provides all public power
services in the country. Although UTE is organized as an autonomous public
entity, general prerogatives of Government agencies impose legal and adminis-
trative constraints on its everyday operations. Other organizations operating
in the sector are the Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande (CTM) and the
Comision Mixta del Palmar (COMIPAL). CTM is the binational organization
which is constructing the Salto Grande hydro station and will operate it.
UTE will buy part of CTM's output (ultimately up to 50%) in bulk. COMIPAL
was created with the sole purpose of building the Palmar hydro station, the
ownership and operation of which will be transferred to UTE once the works
are completed.
23.       Until 1977, Uruguay did not have an electricity law.  Consequently,
several aspects pertaining to the organization and regulation of the sector
were not defined, which caused uncertainty and inefficiency. In September
1977, following a recommendation by the Bank, a law was passed, which
(i) establishes the Government's policy, regulatory and control functions;
(ii) defines UTE's primary role in the sector and its responsibilities vis-a-
vis other local utilities, the municipalities and private consumers; and
(iii) creates a National Load Dispatch Center to be operated by UTE.



24.       Regulations to the Electricity Law were approved in June 1979 and
deal with such matters as: concession regime, arrangements between UTE and
municipalities for assignment of regulatory and supervisory functions,
reimbursement procedures for customer contributions and, most importantly,
the tariff regime.
Planning
25.       Uruguay does not yet plan its supply and uses of energy resources
in a coordinated manner. The creation of the Direccion Nacional de Energia
as a department within the Ministry of Industry and Energy is a recent event
(1976) which shows the desire to coordinate the energy sector as a whole.
Although still understaffed and limited by the low salaries it can offer (a
common problem in Uruguay's public sector), and consequently constrained in
the tasks it may be expected to undertake, it is the appropriate agency
for energy planning. The proposed loan includes US$0.6 million for an energy
study which will be commissioned by the Direccion. The proposed study would
assess the supply and demand situation for each source of primary and secondary
energy and make recommendations with a view to the adoption of appropriate
energy policies, including energy saving measures where possible.
Sector Strategy and Development
26.       Sector strategy is aimed at substitution of thermal by hydro gener-
ation to reduce fuel imports, while retaining an appropriate balance between
the two types of generating capacity to meet growth requirements, and expan-
sion and renewal of the transmission and distribution network to (i) match
the new generation of Palmar and Salto Grande, (ii) incorporate new consumers,
(iii) replace supply from isolated diesel power stations by supply from the
interconnected system, and (iv) improve the efficiency and reliability of the
services.
27.       Hydro power accounts for about one-third of generation, thermal power
for slightly over half and local diesel generation for the remainder. Hydro
power is expected to increase to slightly less than 50% of total generation in
the early eighties and to about 69% by 1983; thermal generation would decrease
correspondingly, and local diesel generation would almost disappear. Total
generating capacity, now about 659 MW, would increase to about 800 MW in 1980
and to about 1,200 MW in 1983. Access to electric service is quite good
(about 80% of all households). This ratio is expected to increase largely
through electrification of the interior.
Sector Finances
28.       Uruguay's investment in the power sector through UTE and through
Salto Grande and Palmar constitutes a significant financial commitment. The
Salto Grande works are being financed by IDB, suppliers, and by the Govern-
ments of Argentina and Uruguay. The Palmar Project is being financed by Banco
do Brasil, a syndicate managed by Banque de l'Union Europeenne, Banque de
l'Indochine et de Suez and Banque Francaise du Commerce Exterieur and the
Government, which for this purpose has floated a US$100 million bond issue



- 9 -
through a syndicate led by Citicorp International. The Government's contri-
bution to both Salto Grande and Palmar is also derived from the Nat:ional
Energy Fund. 1/ The Government has agreed to prepare a satisfactory program
for financing power sector requirements through 1983 (Section 4.05 of the
Guarantee Agreement).
29.       As noted above, UTE has a long history of unsatisfactory electri-
city rates and until recently, rate increases have lagged behind inflation.
Starting in 1976, however, the Government allowed fairly significant rate
increases. The Government has undertaken to adjust rates regularly to meet
the agreed rates of return and UTE's financing needs (Section 4.07 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreerient).
Furthermore, there is considerable room for improvement regarding future
rate structures. The rates are independent of season, day of the week or
time of day and are applicable throughout the country irrespective of
voltage level, distance or type of generation. This tariff structure is not
conducive to an efficient use of electricity, and UTE has accordingly agreed
to carry out a study using marginal cost criteria with a view to identifying
areas for improvement and to discuss its conclusions with the Bank (Section
3.03(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Past Bank Assistance for Power
30.       Through the former "Administracion General de las Usinas Electricas
y Telefonos del Estado," now "Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones
Electricas" (UTE), the Bank has made four loans to the sector, in 1950
(Loan 30-UR), in 1955 (Loan 132-UR), in 1956 (Loan 152-UR), and in 1970
(Loan 712-UR), aggregating US$82.0 million. The first three loans were made
at a time when UTE was fairly well managed and in a reasonably strong finan-
cial situation. Due to subsequent interference in UTE's operations by various
Government agencies, UTE's management, its staff and finances, as well as the
physical adequacy of its installations, deteriorated markedly. Performance
declined, rate levels became inadequate, and experienced staff left because of
low salaries and lack of other incentives. In 1970, an external consultant
was made available by the Bank and made a set of recommendations which were
substantially accepted by UTE and by the Government. On this basis, the Bank
agreed to appraise the fourth power project.
31.       The fourth power project consisted of an additional 100 MW steam
unit (later increased to 125 MW at UTE's request) at UTE's plant in Montevideo,
rehabilitation of the utility's distribution network, reorganization of its
financial functions and preparation of a sector expansion program. The main
part of the rehabilitation of the Montevideo distribution network was com-
pleted by mid-1975 (18 months behind schedule) but not the installation of
meters and rehabilitation of low tension lines where no Bank-financed equipment
was involved. This part of the project was delayed because of the lack of a
1/   The National Energy Fund obtains its revenues from a 10% tax on electri-
city sales and from participation in the petroleum products tax.



- 10 -
skilled work force in UTE and supply problems of the local manufacturers of
this type of equipment. The most important physical component of the project
(the steam unit, accounting for some 65% of the original project cost estimate)
was completed 18 months behind schedule, with a cost overrun of 141%. The
overrun and delays are attributable to increased unit size, sharp increases in
world prices for equipment subsequent to appraisal, a longer than expected
construction period, labor problems of the manufacturer and delays in procure-
ment because of cumbersome legal procedures within Uruguay. In the period of
project execution UTE experienced a deterioration of managerial and financial
performance without the Government taking action to arrest it; in fact, the
lack of Government action to adjust tariffs on a timely basis was to a large
extent responsible for the poor financial results. These developments were
largely related to the severe social conflict and general economic dislocation
which affected the country until 1975. The Government was reluctant to
attempt to strengthen UTE, and when it decided to undertake Palmar, it set up
a special purpose authority (COMIPAL) to carry out the project. A Project
Performance Audit (Doc. SecM78-867, dated November 29, 1978) generally concurs
in the foregoing evaluation of UTE's performance under Loan 712-UR.
32.       To provide a focus for the preparation of further international
lending support, in mid-1976 the Bank undertook a review of the power sector
to help outline a program of financial and institutional measures to strengthen
the power sector and improve UTE's performance. The ensuing report (No.
1287-UR), which was distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1976,
outlined a plan of action which included the adoption of an electricity law
and regulations thereto as well as new statutes and regulations for UTE. The
latter would give UTE greater independence and define more clearly the respec-
tive responsibilities of UTE's management and its board, since many of the
problems being experienced were due to lack of clarity in this respect.
The report also recommended introduction of competitive salary levels, rate
increases to ensure a satisfactory rate of return, the settlement of debts
owed to UTE by the public sector for services provided, and the creation of a
credit line for UTE. The Uruguayan Government indicated its acceptance of the
recommendations and initiated action on them. On this basis, the Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) decided to proceed with consideration of
a power transmission and distribution project. UTE's transmission and distri-
bution programs were evaluated in a feasibility study completed in mid-1977.
The study was carried out by consultants (Electroconsult, Italy) under terms
of reference previously discussed with the Bank and with IDB, and provided the
technical basis for the present project. However, Bank consideration of the
project was seriously delayed because of the difficulty in arriving at satis-
factory agreement with the Uruguayan authorities on the scope of the changes
needed in UTE's management structure. A compromise was evolved under which
the Bank agreed to consider a more limited project than originally envisaged
pending completion of a management study. Subject to UTE's performance in
implementing the first portion of the program, the Bank agreed to consider
financing the later portion through a subsequent loan. Further delays occurred,
however, because of UTE's slowness in issuing calls for the consulting services
required for the project and the difficulty in reaching agreement with the
Government on the Regulations to the Electricity Law.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Fifth Power Project"
(No. 2022b-UR, dated November 26, 1979) is being distributed separately.
A Loan and Project Summary is being placed at the front of this report.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The project
was identified through the above-mentioned sector report (para. 33) in
December 1976, and subsequently prepared by consultants in 1977. The project
was appraised in October-November 1977 and the appraisal updated in May, 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington from August 28, 1979 to September 7,
1979; the Uruguayan delegation was led by Ing. Juan Jose Anichini, Alternate
Governor for the Bank, representing the Government and by Ing. Marta Casabo,
Director, representing UTE.
34.       During the prolonged period of project preparation, considerable
progress has been made in meeting the agreed objectives for strengthening
the power sector and improving UTE's performance. Thus, the Electricity Law
and its Regulations have been adopted; agreement has been reached between
the Bank and the Government on new By-laws for UTE. Project consultants have
been hired as well as consultants for a dispatch center, the management
study and the development study. Tariffs have been raised substantially,
leading to improved financial performance of UTE. Salaries of key personnel
have been increased, in some cases by as much as 100%. The separation of
UTE and ANTEL is nearing completion. Progress is being made in the collec-
tion of public sector debts to UTE, and agreement has been reached for the
final solution of this problem by June 30, 1980. UTE was committed to hire
external auditors under the fourth power project. However, because of the
reorganization of its accounts and delays experienced in producing the
accounting statements, UTE did not feel able to fulfill this obligation.
But UTE has now proceeded to award a contract to the auditors who, in addition
to their auditing functions, will carry out a special compensation study.
Engagement of the auditors would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Section 7.01(e) of draft Loan Agreement).
UTE's Development Program
35.       UTE's 1980-83 development program is expected to cost US$323.6 million
(including physical and price contingencies but excluding interest during
construction), of which 11% would be for generation, 32% for transmission 49%
for distribution and 8% for other items. The generation component would mainly
consist of some buildings and fuel tanks for thermal stations, spares for
thermal and hydro stations, and repairs and replacements in hydro stations.
It does not include a thermal plant which may be needed for firming up hydro-
power at times of water shortages. The development study, which would be
financed by the proposed loan, would establish if and when plant would be
actually required (Section 3.03(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
36.       As shown in the map (Map IBRD 14535), the projected Uruguayan part
of the trunk transmission system, consisting of about 450 km of 500 kV lines,
will connect the hydro stations at Salto Grande and at Palmar to Nontevideo.
For this system, which forms an integral part of the Salto Grande project,



- 12 -
local currency funds are being provided by a loan from Argentina to Uruguay
and the foreign exchange costs are being met through a loan from IDB and
suppliers' credits. The Salto Grande and Palmar plants, and the 500 kV
transmission facilities do not form a part of UTE's development program
(although Palmar and part of the 500 kV system, after completion, will be
transferred to UTE's ownership and responsibility). UTE's long-term trans-
mission and distribution programs are designed to match the large increase in
generation capacity resulting from Salto Grande and Palmar so as to meet
future demand requirements that are expected to grow at a rate of 5.8% per
year. UTE's transmission program comprises the construction of about 600 km
of 150 kV transmission lines to serve the Montevideo area and other areas in
the interior and to provide an interconnection between Argentina and Uruguay
at Salto-Concordia. Six new substations would be constructed and eight
existing substations would be expanded; a load dispatch center will be estab-
lished on the basis of specifications prepared by consultants engaged in
consultation with the Bank. The transmission program would be assisted by a
loan being considered at IDB. Since the distribution facilities to be financed
under the proposed Bank loan are complementary to the transmission facilities
to be provided under the IDB loan, signature of the latter would be of condi-
tion of effectiveness under the IBRD loan (para. 64 and Section 7.01 of draft
Loan Agreement).
37.       The distribution program is designed to make the increasing supply
of power from the new generation facilities available to the consumers, the
number of which is expected to increase from about 790,000 households in 1978
to about 900,000 in 1983. The program provides for substantial renovation of
distribution facilities in Montevideo, and for distribution expansion in the
interior of the country. Although load density in Montevideo is relatively
low, many parts of the distribution system are approaching the limits of their
capacity, notwithstanding the improvements resulting from the works completed
in 1975 under Bank Loan 712-UR. The requirements for expansion in Montevideo
are modest, since the city's population has shown limited growth; development
has largely been confined to building up between existing housing areas.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The proposed project aims at assisting the authorities to meet the
power demand stemming from the revitalized economy and correct overload condi-
tions, while increasing the reliance on local energy sources and improving
UTE's institutional, financial and efficiency problems. Specifically, the
project is directed at: (a) helping finance major investments in the distri-
bution facilities of UTE; (b) renovating the distribution network in Montevideo
and phasing out uneconomical local diesel generating plants in the interior;
(c) improving UTE's management efficiency and financial practices through new
legislation, regulations and assistance from management consultants; and
(d) improving sector policies through an energy sector study, a development
study and a tariff study.
39.       The project comprises the first two years (1980/81) of the 1980-83
work for: (i) renovation and expansion of distribution networks in Montevideo;
(ii) expansion and some renovation of distribution networks in the interior;



- 13 -
(iii) consultants' services for project management and studies in the following
areas:  management, tariffs, development program, internal auditing and manage-
ment information systems, and energy sector.
40.       IDB expects to finance the UTE transmission program with a loan
over a three-year period. The somewhat longer execution period and result-
ing absence of parallelism with the Bank loan is explained by the fact that
the large transmission lines in the IDB sub-project cannot be divided into
phases but have to be undertaken as a whole.
The Borrower; Execution Arrangements
41.       The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Administracion
Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas (UTE), a quasi-autonomous
entity of the Uruguayan Government. It was founded in 1912 and assigned
the responsibility for public power supply. In 1931, the institution was
modified by adding the telephone service to its activities. In 1974, the
Government enacted a law establishing a new telecommunications administration,
Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANTEL), which took over UTE's
telecommunications operations. At present UTE and ANTEL are in the process
of separating the common services pertaining to their activities, pursuant to
a plan agreed between ANTEL, UTE, IDB and the Bank (Section 5.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
42.       Because of its legal structure as an autonomous entity, UTE's bylaws
(Carta Organica) have to be approved by law and its regulations (Reglamenta-
cion) by Presidential decree. Both the "Carta Organica" and its "Reglamen-
tacion" are being amended, so as to conform to the new Electricity Law and
to allow a more flexible and efficient administration. The enactment of
UTE's bylaws and their regulations would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 7.01(a) of Loan Agreement). Under the projected new legal structure,
UTE would continue to be governed by a full-time three-member Board of
Directors, chaired by the UTE President. The bylaws, as amended in agree-
ment with the Bank, would establish a distinction between matters of policy
including organizational set-up, issue of internal regulations, approval of
annual budget and development program, which would be referred tc the Board
and major operational decisions, which would be the responsibility of the
President. It is expected that the President will continue to be a Government
appointee, and that the General Manager will be an experienced executive, to
whom the everyday running of operations will be delegated. However, such a
division of responsibilities can only emerge over time, since UTE does not
presently have sufficient qualified staff to make it function effectively. 1/
To help UTE achieve this objective, the proposed loan would finance consultant
services for a management study; this study would cover all aspects of UTE's
organization, policies and procedures and the implementation of all actions
to be taken.
1/  The problem is complicated by the assignment of "interventores" to run
certain UTE departments, who operate outside the regular organizational
structure.



- 14 -
43.       UTE presently employs about 9,700 people (including 70% of the 550
employees of the services still common for UTE and ANTEL) representing
81 consumers per employee. This is low and it appears that considerable
improvement in the efficient use of manpower could be made. There are areas,
particularly in UTE's administrative organization, which are evidently over-
staffed and UTE's management study would suggest ways to make better use of
manpower. Two limiting aspects will determine the extent of future progress
in this field: (a) the lack of contractors and technically adequate local
workshops, which obliges UTE to undertake itself most of its works, thus
increasing the need for artisans considerably; and (b) the scattered nature
of systems in the interior, which have to be self-supporting to some extent.
44.       As of December 1978, UTE had 160 professionals on its payroll (i.e.,
1.6% of its total number of employees). Included are those working in support-
ing services common to both UTE and ANTEL, allocated to UTE. About 100 of all
professionals are graduate engineers, one third of whom are still inexperienced,
fully qualified technical expertise in the entity, therefore, constitutes
presently only 0.7% of the work force.
45.       For more than a decade Uruguay has been experiencing a braindrain,
resulting from low salaries and limited opportunities offered to its generally
well-qualified professionals. This has been even more true in the public
sector. In UTE's case, the problem was compounded by the competition for
qualified manpower brought about by the works being carried out at Salto
Grande and Palmar by CTM and COMIPAL, respectively. While the output of the
universities practically dropped to zero during several years of unrest, both
CTM and COMIPAL have been able to pay substantially higher salaries than UTE,
thus drawing away many of its more capable and career-minded professionals.
Over the past two years UTE has taken some steps to modify this situation.
Salaries of its key personnel have been increased in some cases by as much as
100% (over and above cost of living increases, periodically granted to all
public sector employees).
46.       Despite this progress, UTE still faces a serious staffing problem.
The management study to which the Borrower would be committed (Section
3.03(c)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement) would evaluate UTE's staffing needs
at all management and professional levels, outline the policies necessary to
recruit and train the personnel required, and develop an adequate compensation
scheme. An urgent study directed exclusively at salary and compensation
questions would be carried out by the external auditors and submitted to the
Bank by June 30, 1980 and UTE would present to the Bank for agreement by
September 30, 1980 the proposed structure and policies for staff compensation.
The staff compensation scheme would be implemented by January 1, 1981 (Section
3.03(c)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The Government is committed to
support such proposals as applicable (Section 2.01 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Until the studies are completed, UTE would proceed with an interim plan agreed
with the Bank for the recruitment of engineers and other professionals (Section
4.03 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
47.       UTE has agreed to set up a special project unit, to be assisted
by external consultants that have already been engaged (Electroconsult of
Italy). The basic designs of the distribution and transmission development
facilities were developed by these consultants in general accordance with
UTE's practices. The project unit will assist UTE's other departments with
respect to design, preparation, issuance of bid documents and bid evaluation.
The project unit will be responsible for execution scheduling and supervision
of construction. In the Montevideo area, the works would be largely executed
by UTE's work force with the assistance of civil works contractors for under-
ground cable works and substation buildings. For the interior, some diffi-
culties may arise because of the lack of contractors for this type of work,
and the reluctance of UTE's artisans to work outside Montevideo. If necessary,
however, contractors from neighboring countries could be employed. Work on
the project would be initiated in early 1980 and completed by December 31, 1981.
Earnings and Financial Position
48.       UTE's earnings record has improved over the recent past.  While
until 1976 the rate of return was below the 8% level covenanted unider Loan
712-UR, it exceeded it in 1977 and 1978. This improvement in earnings was
chiefly the product of very favorable hydrological conditions in 1977 and 1978.
UTE's earnings have not generated adequate resources to finance power sector
investments. This has not had a serious impact to date as a result of the
Government's decision to implement through other entities its main investments
in the electric sector (the hydroelectric projects of Salto Grande and Palmar).
However, investment in transmission and distribution continued to be under
UTE, and in these two areas, as well as in maintenance, financial tightness
was felt severely.
49.        Failure to increase electricity tariffs to the levels required on
financial and economic grounds is explained by the high inflation rates which
prevailed in the period. The Government possibly feared that raising the
prices of services provided by public sector agencies would aggravate inflation.
However, the cost of electricity has small direct incidence on the cost of
living while the impact of subsidies to power users on the budget and its
financing is significant; the continuation of low tariffs appears to have been
largely political. If indeed the Uruguayan economy continues improving,
timely measures with respect to tariffs are required to preclude waste (i.e.,
supply of electricity at below economic cost to the consumer) and financial
difficulties for UTE. It would indeed be paradoxical that Uruguay should keep
its rates low when fuel imports have such significant macroeconomiic effects
and power generation is about 50% from thermal sources.
50.       UTE has a strong financial structure.  Its debt/equity ratio as of
December 1978 was 20:80 and this is probably overstated, since inventories
are carried at their historic cost (and not all items have been inventoried),
work in progress is shown at cost, and foreign inflation is not yet taken into
account for fixed asset revaluation purposes. Thus UTE has the capacity to
carry considerable additional debt, provided its revenues are al:Lowed to
increase so as to meet the additional debt service. In the past UTE's
liquidity has fluctuated from very poor to fairly good. At present, with
investment being kept low, UTE has no liquidity problem.



- 16 -
Tariff Regulations
51.       The recently enacted Electricity Law provides that electricity
rates shall be set so as to maintain the quality of service and finance
investment requirements to meet market growth. The regulations to the law
institute a new tariff regime which supersedes the one instituted by the earlier
decree of 1970, although the basic principles of the previous regulations have
been retained. UTE's tariff will be set on the basis of a target rate of
return on a rate base consisting of average revalued net fixed assets in
operation and a provision for working capital. The main changes are as
follows:
(a) The annual rate of return shall be not less than 6% (the previous
minimum was 8%) nor more than 10%, averaging 8% in the period
1975-1983, and the Executive Power shall annually determine the
rate of return expected for the next year and fix tariffs
accordingly;
(b) UTE may request tariff adjustments: (i) within the first four
months of each year (to reflect expected hydrological conditions),
(ii) every three months to take into account cost changes adding
up to 5% or more, (iii) at any moment when cost changes since the
last rate increase add to 10% or more; and
(c) Provision is made for a more comprehensive asset revaluation
scheme than the one presently in use, which--before being
instituted--must be proposed by UTE for approval by the Executive
Power.
Overdue Government Accounts
52.       Overdue Government accounts have been a perennial problem for UTE,
associated with its de facto dependence from the Central Government. Loan
712-UR included a covenant requiring collection of overdue receivables from
the public sector (as well as timely payment of UTE's debts to it) but this
was never fulfilled. As of December 31, 1978, accounts due from the public
sector were estimated to amount to the equivalent of US$20.0 million which,
had rates remained invariant through time, would represent about 15 months of
sales (at prevailing inflation rates, however, it is probably closer to about
20 months of sales).
53.       To deal with this problem, the Government established a compensating
mechanism for part of the debt in early 1978 and made budgetary allocations
for power purchases in such a manner that they may not be diverted from the
intended purpose. These measures have proved insufficient, as overdue
accounts have kept on mounting. In view of the above, assurances have been
obtained to ensure timely payment of future electricity bills, and agreement
has been reached on the manner and timetable in which debts outstanding as of
December 31, 1979 shall be settled by June 30, 1980. UTE has agreed to take
adequate measures to collect accounts receivable from public sector agencies
within 75 days of billing and the Government has agreed to make direct payment



- 17 -
to UTE of bills not paid by its respective agencies, other Governmeant enter-
prises or municipalities, within the same period. To monitor compliance, UTE
has agreed to submit quarterly reports on sales and receivables to the public
sector (Sections 3.05(c) and 5.07 of draft Loan Agreement and Section 4.06 of
draft Guarantee Agreement). It is a condition of effectiveness that adequate
progress has been made towards the fulfillment of the foregoing obligations.
(Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
54.        The total cost of the project which represents about 16% of the total
cost of the 1980-83 development program has been estimated at US$52.5 million,
of which US$24.0 million is the direct foreign exchange component. A summary
of project costs is set out in the project summary above. The cost estimate
was prepared by an external consultant (Electroconsult of Italy) on the basis
of May 1979 costs. It excludes import duties and taxes for which the Govern-
ment has informed us that UTE will be exempted. The loan would finance 90% of
the cost of the necessary consultant services until the end of 1980, about 480
staff/months at an average base cost of US$7,000 per staff/month. A physical
contingency allowance of 10% was made for distribution works. This is considered
adequate. Price contingencies for local costs are based on rates of 45% for
1980 and 40% for 1981. For foreign costs a rate of 6% p.a. has been assumed.
55.       The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange component
(46% of project cost) and the local costs would be covered by UTE's internal
resources. In view of the nature and diversity of the distributicin equipment
and material to be imported, it is unlikely that financing from alternative
sources could be obtained on suitable terms. Retroactive financing of up to
US$900,000 is proposed for consulting services paid after June 1, 1979
(Schedule I, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). This financing would
involve payments under contracts signed after the reappraisal of the project
(May 1979). In view of the long lead time necessary to hire consultants under
procedures applicable to quasi-governmental entities such as UTE, the proposed
retroactive financing is expected to assist project execution substantially.
A summary of UTE's 1980-83 program financing plan is contained in the project
summary above. According to the financing plan, total requirement:s for funds
in the four-year period will amount to US$365.8 million, of which 10% would be
invested in generation, 28% in transmission, 43% in distribution and 19% in
working capital and other purposes. Of the funds needed, US$148.0 million
(40%) would be obtained through internal generation, US$77.6 million (22%)
from loans from the Bank and IDB and US$140.2 million (38%) from suppliers.
In order to make sure that UTE would generate sufficient funds to cover
investment requirements during project execution, UTE has undertaken that
if the rate of return in any one year is less than 7.5%, the difference
between the rate attained and 7.5% shall be compensated in the next year
(Section 5.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). To this effect, UTE has
undertaken to submit tariff increase requests every three months to take
into account cost changes adding up to 5% or more, and at any moment when
cost changes add up to 10% or more, and the Government has agreed to act



- 18 -
expeditiously on such requests. Also, the Government has undertaken to
approve by January 15, 1980 a program of rates sufficient to enable UTE
to achieve in 1980 a rate of return of 7.5% (Section 4.07 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
56.       Of the proposed US$24.0 million Bank loan, US$0.6 million would
be relent by UTE to the Direccion Nacional de Energia for an energy study,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which are expected to
provide for the same interest rate, commitment fee, maturity, grace period
and repayment schedule as the Bank loan (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement of goods and services to be financed from the proposed
loan would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Goods and services to be financed by UTE
would be procured through UTE's normal procedures, which require competitive
bidding or negotiated contracts in special instances. Due to the small size
of the local market and unfavorable tax treatment, locally procured equipment
may be up to 40% more expensive than equivalent imported equipment. However,
the increase in total project cost resulting from such local bidding is not
expected to exceed 10%, as local manufacturers are only capable of supplying
a small portion of project requirements.
58.       Disbursements would be made against (a) 100% of the foreign cost
of equipment, materials and auxiliary services and (b) 90% (the estimated
foreign exchange component) of total expenditures on consultant services.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.        The proposed loan would make a significant contribution to the
Uruguayan power sector and to UTE. In terms of the sector, the project would
(a) assist the Government in carrying out studies with a view to formulating
a master energy plan and defining measures to foster fuel economies; and
(b) assist UTE in formulating a national power sector development program,
based on the least cost solution for expanding generation facilities; the
program would define reasonable criteria for establishing system reserves and
the most rational use of indigenous energy resources. The project would also
include assistance to UTE in studying tariff structures, in order to provide
a basis for changes which would encourage rational patterns of consumption.
60.       With regard to UTE, the project would encompass investments in
distribution facilities necessary to meet forecast demand, accompanying the
sustained recovery of the economy utilizing the energy production of the hydro
power plants of Salto Grande and Palmar. The distribution facilities would
bring this energy to the final consumers, reduce losses and improve the
efficiency of UTE's operations and the reliability of services. The phasing
out of local diesel generation units in the interior will have beneficial
effects on costs, operating efficiency and reliability. The project is not



- 19 -
expected to have any adverse effects on the environment. A least-cost compari-
son has been made to justify the replacement of localized diesel-electric
supply by supply from the interconnected system. The equalizing discount
rate, up to which the present value of all costs related to supply from the
interconnected system would be lower than the present value of all costs of
isolated (diesel) supply, is about 18%.
61.        The risks of the project from the technical point of view are no
greater than those normal for projects of this type. However, the timely
utilization of distribution works in the interior would be dependent on
transmission works under the IDB financed portion of the project meeting their
schedule. It is recognized, furthermore, that in the past UTE's managerial
shortcomings, lack of support from Government in the financial and organiza-
tional areas and an adverse general social and economic environmeni: resulted
in a deterioration of UTE's efficiency and in a very low earnings record. The
policies of the present Government and the measures agreed in conjunction with
the proposed loan are designed to enable UTE to improve its efficiency and
financial position and overcome the main problems that have manifested them-
selves at the Government level.
62.        Since the project is intimately related with the rest of UTE's devel-
opment program, it is not possible to make an economic evaluation ,of the project,
taken in isolation. The rate of return for the 1980-1983, UTE investment
program using revenues and the power sales taxes as a proxy for benefits, has
been estimated at about 7%. This underestimates the economic benefits of the
program, since the calculation is based on the tariffs being charged by UTE.
While these tariffs are adequate to cover UTE's financial requirements, over
the long run they may have to be raised to cover marginal cost. The higher
revenues could then be used to help finance the completion of Palmar. The
tariff structure study included in the project will allow UTE to introduce the
necessary adjustments in UTE's tariffs in an orderly manner. Performance in
implementing a satisfactory sector tariff and financial policy would be a prime
consideration in the decision to support the second stage of UTE's distribution
program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and
the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between UTE and the Bank, and the Report
and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
64.        Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01 of draft Loan Agree-
ment) would be (a) that evidence had been provided that the IDB lcan had been
signed; (b) that evidence has been provided that satisfactory progress is
being made towards fulfilling Government commitments regarding payment of



- 20 -
elecLricity bills; (c) that UTE's Bylaws and their regulations  have been
enacted; (d) that a decree nas been enacted granting UTE the necessary
authorization from the Executive Power to carry out all procurement required
for the project; and (e) that independent auditors have been engaged.
65.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 26, 1979



- 21 -                                                       ATTACHMENT I
PaRe I
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJ'JSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            177*5                                                    SAME        SAME    4NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     154.6                                 hOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOtE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  630.0       870.0    1610.0           1124.4     1942.6       '075.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     825.0        930.0   i000.0             943.1     1646.7       2:518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, M1D-Y2AR (MILLIONS)       2.5         2.8       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 80.1         82.1      83.0             59.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. C4.                        14.0        16.0      16.0             23.5       28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      16.0        17.0      19.0             80.5      100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          28.2        28.7      28.0             40.9       35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                         64.4         62.6      63.5             54.4       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    7.4         8.7       8.5              3.9        5.1          5.7
POPULATION GROUITN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5         1.1       0.3/f            2.4        1.7         2.1
URBAN                               2.8         1.3       0.4              3.7        3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.0        21.0      20.0             32.8       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THoUSAND)       9.0         9.0       9.0              8.5        9.1         8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4         1.4       1.4              2.4        1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..        ..             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.3        107.0      99.0             99.4      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   115.0       114.0     116.0            107.0      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)           93.0        96.0      98.1             60.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        60.0        64.0      62.6             28.3       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.0         3.0       3.0              6.7        5.1         2.5
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    68.0         69.3      71.0             63.6       65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..      49.0             76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOtAL                                '         92.0      98.0             63.4       69.4        73.9
URBAN                                *'       100.0     100.0            79.5        85.1        94.6
RURAL                               ..         59.0      87.0            38.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO E1CRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        82.0      83.0             58.8       70.1
URBAN                                ..        97.0      97.0             77.8       88.3
URAL                                ..         13.0      17.0            24.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1100.0/      940.0     700.0           1841.9     1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PE7R NURSING PERSON         ..      3560.0         ..           933.7      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                             180.0       150.0        ..            563.4      197.6       240.6
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            279.4      260.2
RU7RAL                              ..           ..        ..          1140.9      1055.0
ADMISSIONS ?ER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..            25.7       17.3        19.2
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
MT.A.L                              3.8/h        ..       3.6              5.0        4.7
UR3AN                                ..          ..       3.6              4.8        4.4
RL'RAL                              ..           ..       4.0              5.3        5.1
AVERAGE  U!UHBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
I0TAL                               1.5/h        ..       2.1              1.3        1.;.
URBAN                              1.5-h         ..       2.1              1.3        1.2
RURAL                               ..           ..       2.1              1.5        1.2
ACCESS rO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
rOTAL                              78.0/h        ..      90.7             54.3       66.0
uR3AN                             S8.03h         ..      89.2            80.1        85.1
RURAL                              9.07h         ..      27.8             14.2



- 22 -                                             ATTACHMENT I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAKE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCO!tE       INCOME
1960 /b     [970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /c
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR7IY:       TOTAL                111.0        106.0      95.0            107.3       101.7       107.6
KALE                 111.0       108.0       95.0           109.1       110.0
FEMALE               111.0       103.0       94.0           107.4        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 37.0         57.0      62.0             40.5        51.2        39.7
MALE                  35.0        51.0       57.0            40.4        56.4
FEMALZ                38.0        63.0       67.0.           39.0        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z o0  SECONDARY)  23.0         21.0      19.0             18.5        18.3
PUPML-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0         29.0      23.0             37.1        27.1
SECONDARY                          13.0           ..        ..             17.9       25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        91.0      94.0             77.4        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CAIBS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         39.0         45.0      55.0             29.1        53.4        68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        285.0        346.0     490.0            172.1      225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          9.0         52.0     115.0             67.9       102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
LUNTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..       140.0         ..            76.1        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0            ..         ..             4.2         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1000.0/h    1020.0    1200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   24.66        27.5      28.5             21.5       24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              20.6         15.2      12.0             30.2       28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.5         31.2      32.0             23.8       30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                60.1         38.6      38.5             30.9        33.8        40.1
MALE                                 60.6         56.4      55.5             47.3        51.3        55.7
FEMALE                               19.7         21.1      21.8             13.3        16.3        24.7
ECONaUIC OEFENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.0       0.9              1.5         1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             23.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          51.3/i      ..             58.7       57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          4.0j1      *-              2.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         13.3/1      ..              9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            265.6
RURAL                                ..           ..     288.0            185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTy LNCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                *-           *-     425.0            396.3      550.0
ikURAL                               *-           *-     425.0            308.1      403.4
ESTIM1ATED POPULATION BELOU ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             35.2
RlURAL                               ..           ..        ..             46.6
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
ia    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomecric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated councrv in each group. Coverage of countries among che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/'    Jnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Escimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/ acta America 4 Caribbean;  Id  Upper Middle Incoee (51136-2500 per caoita, 1976);  /e aigh income
over 52j00 per capita.  976);  /f  Due to emigration, populacion growth rate is lover chan race or
oatural increase;  /i  1962;  /h  1963;  /i  1967.
nost Recent lastimae of  iNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 23 -                                                                         ATTACHMENT I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCI AL INDICATbOF                                                             Rg
Notes:  Although the data are dra-  from   --ue  generaly judged the smut sotboritti-e  nd reliable, it should also he mated that they am  cot be ioteo--
ti...Illy cospac`hic becase of the lack of standardled definitions and ooseepts used Py different cootrie- in collettig the data. The data are, nonetheless,
useful to Ot-crbh  .rde,e of magoitode, lodloate treds, and ohara-ier-  -etais aa]o  doffer--n  bet-ee-osslle-
Th   d.o-tcl grop aoerage  foe-oah isldcat.c ac  pcpslatlca-oeghteo geoaetroe asean,  -sluI.g the ect-em   calu- of the indicat-r sod te moot Populated
etooty to eac-h group.  ,o to lack of data, group  ..erages of all hudiQators foe Capital Surplus 011 Eporters and of indicators of A-ooo to Water sod hre-ta
Diopooni,  oU.siog, Ione -listrohuolon and Poverty for other o-toacy grops are popul1ctoo-oeighted geometric  -eonuithout eolns   f ths votr,eocolusad
the most ppatLe- c tuorp   ioc  the coverag  ofcountrIes mpdag the lndhoa1torsdepeedsPon atailahilito of data sod is not -ilfor-. cauthe must Os esee .lud
ha rehati=g aeaeofoeIdctroanhr.  fles  veags  cemetyusef   as asprosraloso  "sete"vles when ec-arhag tie  -alue  of ..e
iedd-tte at a time amoo  the  ountry and ref-r-t  groups.
LAUD AMSE  (tasassend  q.e.).                                                             Ass... to ftaeeta DisUsas  (sercet  f usata(-s,laba sdrrl-
total  Ttal asrflac  area csapriainsg land area  ndinhaled waters.                                            ime   t  epe  ttl  ubaa, and  ural   aeA . b
Aghutua   Bat resent estImate of sagicultural area used tmiporarily              percentage. af their respective popuelations, bxereta silWapeal NW include
or  psmasti  fine soeep, Pasturesa  market mand kitchen gardens or to                   the sollectioa and disposal, with or withoust treatment, of humn sex-eta
lie fallow,                                                       and was~~~~~~~~~.t te-stter by water-hone system,~ or the use of pit pridesm ad scaflar
- imp per caiastae    tcretwe    rea                                       alt.w.calcig   - PepuLatima divided by number of practicing phyaiciana
calculate  by same emversisa method as World bank Atlas (1976-T8 basia); i                 iAfldii.adea                 ool at, Xslmraty le.-l.
1960, 1970, and 1973 data..Paeltw     Nursing Param - Paplstice, dicided by mister af practicing male
amei cuisiiicipuPERCAPITA- Annual coasatie. of eamercil enegy                         'adfinal  graduate aurses, Practical sauraes, ad ase-tant asras..
(col ed lgnte,petoleaI natural, gas and hydra-, sascle-r and ges-                Pag5aisprRuptlbd-tta,ubn   n  rrl-iplton(oa,ub,
thermal electehitiy) ha kilogrms ef seal etivalant pee capita; 1960,adrrl   iie   yterrsett   iae   fha  51hd   vial  s
1970  sod 1976 data,                                                                      Public and private general and spechalised hostpital said rehahilitatisa seaters.
Hospitals are eatabliahanta permanently ataf fed by a: least one physician.
PPEUIATIO AUlD VITAL STATinTIcs                                                             Rstablishmesta Pr-idiag peinsipally eustodial e-r  axe mat included. Rura1
Total_Populatioa. Mid-Year (aillisns) - hA. of July i; 1960, 1970, and                    hoapitals,  one,Include health and medical ceter  not permasnently staffed
1977 dat..                                                                             by a physieban, (best by a mediea1 ...siatant, cure, midwifes, ass) whish off-
Urban Posalatioa (sereent ot total) - Ratils of urban ts total ppupalation;               In-patient accomdation end provide a limited range of medical facilitisa.
diff-ret defiultiosa of Zrha- an-   aW at feet  -aparability of data                 Adt0iatnazee Hosp italZ e-Ttal asaber of adaisaisos is or dischrarge  from
sacountries; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                             hoptl   iie   yteame   f beds.
197I~  ~    ~    -Currect Ppupslatioa projections are based s               031
5tota  Populationa by age and see and their mortality and fertility          ""~IeRs   fRashl  proaprhueod)       - toa,"ban" n   rua-
rates. Peojeetion, parameters fee mortality eates sspeof threeAhueod  osaso.    goupea  hlvdul  ab   hr  lvn    ustr   n
levels assuming life cepectaney at birth increasing with couatry's                   their main meals.. A boarder or lodger may orW n.ynt bs ineluded is the
Per capita income level, and female life espectancy atebilinisa                      household far  ttaintheal pasepsasa.
77.5 year.ITeprmtr o   ertility  rate  la- have threlvl                              vrg  sme   fpr spr  rom- toa,  urhn  mand rual. - Aterae numiber
assigd;eeo  ic fertilIty  aetor'dig toinaa   leve  sag past                      af persana Per romi   l   ra,mdrrlocpe   ovrisld.elliogo,
famil  slasoing perfoewm-e. Each country is then assigned onte of these              respectively,  Dweelings eaclude  ma-peresanet struturs mad snoceupied parts.
alas  sinations af mortality mad fertility bread. for proirotion                   Aessa  as  leotislip (phreot of  wwefIia.gs)   total, urban  and rura  - Con-
purposes.                                                                            veaionasl dwellins with ectricity inlvn   quarters as Perc..atage cf
itatioaar  onalai- -inastionary pupulatiee there ia as growth                          total, urban, and rusral dwellings respeotirely.
sinc   h  bit   aei qal to the death rate, and also the age
structure remains eosstant, TibI  is achieved only after fertility rates        RDICEATIONI
decline to the replacement level of unit net reProduction rate, when               Adusted Rersilmet Ration
each generation of wome  replaces itself ensctly.  The sattisnary ppupa-             Primary scheol -tta   maead female - Cross total, male and female  -cdl-
lation alswas estimated on the basis of the poie,ted eharacte-isthls                   meet of allage  attepimary leve  as percetages of e-psovte- pri-sr
of th  popultion In the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility                 shohsl-age Ppulnationa; morsally  -inldes children aged 6-11 yeats hot
rate to rplaoemet level                                                                 adjusted for differeat leagthe of primary eduction; for osuo.sries sith
Year stationery Population is reached - The year whensetationary population,              univeesal edutatica. eurolinet amp. eued 100 peroe-t olnee, some psril
eisa has been reahed.                                                                  are helow or shov  the off.ioal sohool age.
Popslattoa Deasity                                                                        Secondary.school -  tota    lefend femal  - Comiputed to ai-e; oteondary
Per a. ha. - Mid-year pspslatioa Par square kilamter (IOU nectares) of                   eduatisa reqoires at lat.  fsur yer f approved priescy lostruisa;
total area                                                                             provides geacral voctional, or teacher training i-ste-tios- for pupils
Per so. he. agrIcutural land - Compputed as shov  for agricultural land.usually of 12 to 17 years of age ; correapoadente courses are gser-ally
only                                                                                    eceded.
P.VuIa tion Age itrotuers -pret) - Children (0-l4 years), werking-age                    to..tional earIlleet (percent of seecadary) - Vooatioa ..       uai.titutioss include
(15-bko yer), an  retie :(65 year  mad aver) as pereentges of mid-year                t-eoha-   indusrial, or oter  rga    he   pst   aeedo                         ra
populatIs; 196,17,ad17 aa                                                                 deprhMat  of secondadry institutions.
PPosletIo  Growth Rate (prsea..t)_-total - Annual growth rates uf total mid-              Neil-teacher ratio-pis.adseodr                      oa  sdet  s earoed is
year Populatiose fsr 1950-hi, 19b0-70, end 1970-71.                                       Primary sod  secondary level  divided"by numberstof t'eachers ia the earre-
panulationa Growh Rate (persent) - urban - Annual growth rates of urban                     spaRinglels
popultions for 1950-60, 19b-    ad17-75rt                                               A1dultlI,teracy rattet(pereat) - Literate adults (ables to read and -eit.) as
rode thrt  Rate  CPr thousad) - Annual lIve bIrth  pee thousand of mid-                 aproetage oftta  adult Pap.lation aged 15 yearn and ove.
year Population) 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.
DahRat.Pe r thousand) - Anmeal deaths per thousad of mid-year COWUDMPTICRi
p&pulatiosVl1961.10,l95 dii1977 data.PsegrCr  (err thousad poultion  -asg-r eascmpiertor earo
iross Repredution Rate - Averge number of daughters a women will hear                     seating less than eight person; em-ldes   abulanes, h-eare  sad nilitary
is bee anreal rePrcoduetire period if she eps    Pnearesent age-esil.
.speeific fertili.ty rates; usually five-year  -averge  ending in 1960,              Radio Receivee  (Pier thousand poultion) - All types of sceeirer  foe radio
O9i,andI175                                                                         broadeaults to geneal pblie perJthoguned of popultion: r-ludes unlicense..d
Paniy PannIg -AoenptornAnua (housads) - Ausu.-I number sf                            rcivers In coutries and in year  shea rgist-atios of radio acts sa  in
a-sptsrs of birth-oto  deie                 -.e sPi-.s of national family              affec t; lava for recent yer .. s ay sot be  opasl  seesotconre
plesda  prure.                                                                         aba1ished Iiea.sing.
PaiyPlntg- Uaere(cement1 of maried worme) - Pe-centag  of maried                 TV Receier  ( per thosan   pistion) -TVrciesoeraduttgaea
woa _fcidbeain  age  15-hA years)wh  Use birth-control devices                  public po  thountad poultion;  sIudes unlicened ft emse-ers in -ontriro
to all1 maried womn in name age group.                                                 end in. years when registration of TV sets eas is effect,
Pith dliii RIJYRITICIR                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of 'dil  genral interest aeoppe  , definedasaprdiodhol publicatise
CasesxtFo   rdcInprcpt   16-110    loSes of Per caPita                                   davatd primaily to  -resdieg genera  news.  It is co-ide...d to be 'dslly"
ftnmna ProdeIoao   l,fodcmdtie.  Pr cutic  -ecldee seed and                            if it.app-ar  at least four times  sweek.
feed end  . son calendar year banis.  Coidities outer primarye goodn                  lLcinm, nulAtaas   e   ait  e   er-nsd                       i    ene  of  icev
(e.g. suaren  instead of augur) wshich are edible and contain ostrieste              oddre  the  ernldig adilodona to drice-in cisemas and mobile
(e.g. toffee and tea are -enlded).  Aggregate pr-d-ttoc of .-hb comt                   malts..
Is base d a naationai average prsdueer 'prIne weights.
Per esnita supplY af  alorie  (P-ren   freurens-Computed from                      ItDOR FORCE
e-egy equivalent of set furd supplies available in country pee capita            T"9trI".b- Force_(thousands)                       - onmolyation peruocs,  -ncldiIg ared
Per soy.  satOiabl. supplisa  -oprius d-netie produoti on, imports Ieas              force  mad  neaployad but  o-luding ho-s-oles, otudeata, etc. Defisit.ooo.
e-prts, end changes in stock.  Ret sspplies eaclde andima  feed, seeds,              in vaioas countries are sot comarble.
oumatitdes used in fond prooeeo lg, mad loss.es io distrihutios. Require-          fpI,mp9(              eaelbor.force as pere-tage of t.tni labo  forte.
raint  were estimated by PAD based on physlisIgiesl  eedo for moemel                               ret) - labor foc  10i faerisg, foeotry, hurting mad
aticity and health o-aideriegevr            tltemperature, body weoghta,            fishing an pereetage of total labor force.
age and sec dietrihbtlons of population, and al11mbg 10 Percent for                I.dustry (Percent) - Labor force in mining, oetoto,               sfaesr-in, and
saste at household level.                                                            elentricity, water and gas as percennge of total l.bor force.
Per capt   upy of pratein (geea  e  ds)-Poescontent of per                           Psrteiniation sate (Pee-et) - total, sale, and fan1 1- hartic ipatisOr
caita net sPply cf fo-d per day-. RtdsppyU   ofioo  h. defined asstoity rates see computed an total, male, sod femnl  inhobr forc  as po-
ahoy   hetir-ento for all  -steieu estbhliahei by bO  proide for                     co.tages of total, male mod female popaathos of all  e,- respectively,
aini-s  aloac   f ki grams of Otatl protein Per day ed 20 grem  of                   196-0, i970, and 1975 data.  These ar  1101C   pactici;atios raven refl-tting
animal and Polar p-oteo, of shich 10 gram  should he animal protein,                 age-see et-tur  of the popltl.o, end long tic trend.  A f. no ettmatrs
These stendrda are lo-e  than those of 75 grass of total protein andare from national souroe..
23S-gam  of animal protein asanaerage for the world, propua.ed by PAIl             cuamlo Peaneny Ratio, -_ satfi  of poputlnc  sod- 15 and 65 and over to
is toe   i de  World Food Sre,the laborforc  in age group of5-64 years.
Po -ait   rteis  uppic fro  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
dered from soiml  mod polne  is gano peIdy.COW DIRTRUIC"IOR
Cid(aes 1-A1  Pieaiyht   prtocn)-Asa etaprtosn                                        eroentage of PIvte incom I hoth io cash end kind) . Received by richest
is ae  rop 1-hear, to children As this  gegroup;for most de-e-                         5 peecen, riobsat 20 peroent, Poorest 20 percet, sod pooret 40 percent
oping 2-tuitel   deta derived fro- life tables                                          of households.
HEALTH                                                                                  PoVEsTY TARGCT 0GROUPS
lietoetsc  tlhrh Cyrar)   Average numeber of years of life                    Eatianted Ahbsolute Poverty Income lece1 (usi_her oap Io   -uban and  -1ra  -
rifsateing1 atybirth; 190 97,ed 1977. data.                                             Aisolute poverty income level in that incone level below shieh a misdel
ofant W4rts.ity Ratc (Per thousand) - An-..I deaths of infants under one                 autrltio..ally sceouate diet plon rsec-tia1 hon-food reqi r-tec  ie not
year of age per thou-and lioe births,                                                   affordable.
Access to Safe gate  (peret of populat2ioo)-total  urla"  anEual-tiated Reheti- Preert  Icos LeteI (U3$ Per oapiLo)-  uhne    ua  -
Numerf    eopettl  urban  and rusi    ith reaonble accessto                       Rural relathce p-rety incomIlvel is mac-third of average per capita
safe oster supply ) ioeld- treated surface cater  or untreated but                     perona  imoo   of the coutry .  rlan levelIs dec ieo from te coral l-eve
-n-otsaiated cater suh as that feow p_teeted horeholes, springs,                       with adjustment for high-er cot of living is obsa a-a..
and osaitry vells) as percetage- of their r-peecv  pouatos  Ta                       EtImted Pptaticsf delco, Absolute Poverty iaeoe le-el (9ret  -ubnsd
an urban ares a publit fountain or otandpost located net mare thanrural -  eeatof                            tpinvv   uran and c-1t) sh.r 'abouepo"
200 meter  fro  a house coy be  -oniderad as being cithis reaonble,
acces  of that ih-e.  Is rural areas -.....able acces  would imply
thnt the ih-ei fe or  -ah-s of the household do not have to speod aE-oit and CS-al Dass Diivispn
dlsprop-ctl-ate Part of the day is fetching the failyp' awater.. neds                                                    Eos-om    Analyasi eniP rJe)etitns Pepart-an
Augut 1979



- 24 -                                                         ATTACHMENT I
Page 4
(Amounts in m7llions of 1.3. dollars)
Actual                        Projected             1970-   1975 -   1979                 1975    1978    1
19 75    19 77     19 78       19 79     19W     19831997411978               1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                      _319
3-Year Average at 19  - 19   Prices & Exchange Rates          Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             4,501    4,775    4,885       5,118      5,349    6,131      -0.2    2.8        4.5              100.5    100.0    0.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)        -25       20         0        -12         -5      -25        -       -         -                 0.5         0     0.4
Gross Domestic Income              4,476    47755    42113       5,sh       STfl     6,106      -0.7    2.8        4.6             o1        lOO.O   llMo
Import (incl. NFS)                   738      878       940      1,049     1,112    1,266       -0.5    8.4       4.8                16.5     19.2    20.7
Exports       (import capacity)      577      829       926        942      1,000    1,205      -2.2   17.0        6.3               12.9      18.9    19.7
Resource Gap                         161       49        14       -107       72         61                                                   *7-3   -7t0
Consumption Expenditures           3,992    3,907    4,044       4,217     4,350    4,937         -      0.5       4.0               89.2      82.7    80.9
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)      645       897       855        996     1,106    1,230       -3.8    9.8       5.4                14.4     17.6    20.1
Domestic Savings                     484      848       841        889        994    1,169      -6.6   20.5        7.0               10.8     17.3    20.2
National Savings                     419      781       770        815        918    1,083      -6.5   22.5        7.3                9.4      15.8    18.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
ITmports
Capital goods                     70.9    120.9      96.0      162.9     196.3    262.3       -9.9   1..o      12.6                12.9      12.6    17.1
Intermediate goods (mfLfuels) 248.3    324.9    350.0          406.7     456.9    648.1       21.5   12.1      12.3                45.3     46.1    42.0
FPtels and related materials    184.3    209.5    230.0        326.0     356.0    471.5       44.7    7.6       9.7                33.6     30.3    30.6
Consumption goods                 45.2     74.1      84.0      105.9      115.8    159.7      20.1   22.7       10.8                8.2      11.0    10.4
Total March. Toports (ci!)       54ZT7    729.4      6Th   1U,001.5   r727   1,541.6          20.7   11.5      11.4               100.0    100.0   100.0
Exp-rts
Primary Products trl. fuels)   263.4    359.1    366.1         448.6     514.4    747.3       12.0   11.6      13.6                68.6      53.4    55.8
Manufactured goods               120.4    248.4    320.0       358.6      394.5    591.9      28.4   38.5       13.4               31.4      46.6    44.2
Total Merch. Exports (fob)       383.8    607.5    686.1       8072       908.9  1339.2       .2 2   21.3       13.5              1207     TOOtS   TOI.0o
Tourism and Border' Trace
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 19  -   - 100
Export Price Index               80.2      95.4    100         114.3     122.0    166.0       22.5    7,6       9.8
Import Price Index               80.7      94.8    100        115.5      122.0    165.6       24.4    7.4       9.4
Terms of Trade Index             99.4    100.6    100           98.9     100.0    100.2       -1.5      -       0.4
Exports Volume Index             69.7      92.7    100         102.9     108.6    153.3       -6.5   12.8      10.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 19  -   Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     625       635       607       625        643       724        -1.9   -1.0       3.7                15.6     13.9    13.2
Industry and Mining           1,168    1,288    1,361       1,456      1,543    1,838           -     5.2       6.0               29.0      31.2    33.6
Service                       2-221    2.339       Wi       2,489    ".h          52           0.2    2.4       4.0                55.4     54.9    53.2
Total                         4,021    4,262    4.361       4.570      4,775    5,474         -0.2    2.8       1                100.0    100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE ( in constant US$)                                                                                                      As Percent of GDP
(C entral Government )
Current Receipts                527       716       723       768        802       944               11.1       5.3               11.7      14.8    15.4
Current Expenditures            563       668      669        676        701       803                5.9       4.4               12.5      13.7    13.1
Budgetary Savings               -36        48       54         92        101       141                 -         -                -0.8       1.1      2.3
Other Public Sector               5       -19       24         31         48        92                 -                           0.1       0.5      1.5
Public Sector Investment        176       215      186        235        262       368                1.8      11.9                3.9       3.8      6.0
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.         DETAIL ON                               At end 19    P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)              19      19         19        19      19           PUBLIC SECTOR                       First Plan    % of Total
Education                                                                                  INVESTMENT PROGRAM                   (19   /    - 19 '/ 
Other Social Services                                                                      Social Sectors
Agriculture                                                                                Agriculture
Other Economic Services                                                                    Industry and Mining
Administration and Defense                                                                 Power
Other                                                                                      Transport and communications
Total Current Expenditures                                                                 Other
Total Expenditures
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-      1965-    1970-   1975          FINANCING
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)             1965       1970      1975    1980
Average ICOR                                        15719      7        17    T72                Public Sector Savings
Import Elasticity                                  -6.40      6.57    -0.08    0.95             Program aid counterpart
M,,ginal Domestic Savings Rate                      0.14    -0.14       0.19    0.27            Foreign Project Aid                    _            _
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.04    -0.17       0.16     0.26            Total Financing
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                 Value Added Per Worker (1975           Prices & Exo. Rates)
OUTPUT PEP. WORKER                In Millions          % of Total          1963 - 75         In U.S.Dollars       Percent of lver.ge         1963 - 75
1963       1975    1963        1975     Grwth Rate           1963       1975        1963      1975       Growth Rate
Agricultu-r                     0.18        0.21    17.9       19.8          1.3             2,366      1,762       0.79       0.60         -2.2
Endustry                       0.26        0.31    25.7        29.0          1.5             3,519      3,439       1.18      1.16         -0.2
Service                         0.56        0.55    56.4       51.2         -0.2             2,932      3,143       0.98       1.06          0.6
Total                           1            77   10          I 07           0                   3       57         TS          7           -0.1
not appl:cable        - nil or neglgible
n. sot aveitaile         -- less than half the
smallest unit showr.



BAUANCE OF PAYETS1 EBRNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
asnaants in rillijcna of U-.S  dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                          Estimated        _ _ProJected                                          Growth Rate
1975        1976         1977         1978           1979          1980         1981         1982         L983           1978-1983
g,-'~ ln,,CE OF PAYMENTS
ro   'incl. NFS)                       550.8        696.2        871.1        926.1          1,167.5      1216.5        1353.9       1538.7       1762.2              13.7
or" ~c.N')676.0                                   705.1        907.1        940.0          1,206.3      1351.9        1503.3       1672.7       18.51.2             14.5
eBal'ance (X- 5)               -125.2        -8.9        -36.0        -13.9             -38.8     -135.4        -149.4       -134.0        -89.0               -_
,-r-e  e:(n-)                  -47.2        -57.2        -56.1        -58.0            -66.9       -72.4         -80.1        -90.0        -98.2              11.1
-24.0       -15.2        -11.7        -20.0             -22.0      -24.2         -25.8        -28.2        -31.1               9.2
ararrenf. Transfers (net)                  6.9          7.7          6.6          7.0               7.7        8.5           9.3         10.2         11.3              10.1
Balanrce oel Current Accounts              -           73.         -97.         -               -l.         -223.5        -246.0       -242.0       -207.0
_~~ ~ ~~~                                     - - _                                                              - _l
P-ivate                                   16.3        104.4        239.5        215.5            189.3       146.8         145.0        129.4        110.2             -12.5
Official Capital Grants                    5.0          5.0
Public M&IT Loans
Disbursements                          284.6        224.1        198.7        416.0            149.8       155.9         192.8        213.7        233.8
-Repay mnis                             181.9       -148.3       -186.9       -365.6             55.2       -55.0         -66.6        -72.8       -107.2
Net Oisbursesnnts                        102.7         75,8         11.8         50.4              94.6      101.0         126.2        140.9        126.6              20.0
Changes in reserves (- = increase)        65.5       -111.6       -154.1       -181.0            -163.9      -24.3         -25.2        -28.3        -29.8
1975Actil       1977       b7ted
DEBT AND DEWT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   ,           616.5      692.3      708.1        765.8
.T2hTw  bi liiU .'.1 FITN6VTS
Interest on Public Debt                   46.2       57.3       57.8         60.4
Repayments on public Debt                181.9      148.3      186.9        365.6
Fublic WVlT Loans                                                                                              Total Public Debt Service                228.1      205.6      244.7        426.0
7T;RD                                  52.0           -            -            9.7
TDA                                      _     -                   -
^ther Multilateral                      60.1          -           15.0         29.7                        Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governmlents                            20.1         25.           -
C'applvers                              2.2           3.           1.6          5.3                          Public Debt Service                       41.4       29.5       28.1         46.0
Financial Institutiolns                249.4        226.6         83.6       214.9                          TDS+Direct Irvest. Inc.                    45.8       31.7       29.4         48.1
Sonds                                 111.8         35.0        130.0        135.0
Public Loans n.e.i.                                  -             -
Total Fublic M1LT Loans                  520.6        290.7        230.2       394.6                         Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dcc. 31, 1978                        Int. as % Prior Year DD&D                  8.9        9.3        8.3          8.5
ITERSIAL DEFT                                     Disbursed On2ly               Peicent                          Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D               35.2       24.0       27.0         51.6
orli!~ Bank                                          73-7                      9.6
TorE Ba7.                                                                       9.                           191D Debt Ouit. & Disbursed                 69.4       79.2       73.6         73.7
-,t,ner 7'altilaz.eral                               71.6                       9.3                               as   put   ibre                         694       114        l-796
as % Public, Debt ORD                  11.2       11.4       10.7          9.6
''rovernnents                                       110.0                     14.4 "6  as % Public Debt Service                                           4.9        5.8        5.6          3.2
Suppliers                                            33.2                      4.3
'inancial Irctitations                              198.3                     25.9
Bonds                                               279.0                     36.5
>,hlic Debts n.e.i                                      
Total Public M&LT Debt                              765.8                    100.0
.53-
n-  applicable                                                      c  staff estimate                                                                                                                   H-
.no  available                                                      -  nil or negligible
not available separately                                           --  less than half the
bhit included in total                                                 smallest unit shown



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1979)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
No.      Year      Borrower                Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                      155.1         -
1166      1975    Rep. Oriental          Fifth Livestock
del Uruguay          Development             17.0        2.3
1176      1975    Rep. Oriental          Industrial Development
del Uruguay          and Export Expansion  20.8          6.6
1594      1978    Rep. Oriental          Vocational Training and
del Uruguay          Technological
Development              9.7       9.7
1689 11   1979    Rep. Oriental          Second Highway
del Uruguay                                  26.5       26.5
Total (net of cancellations)                  229.1       45.1
of which has been repaid                    108.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                   4.7              -
of which has been repaid    3.3               1.4
Total now held by Bank                        119.1
Total undisbursed                                          45.1
1/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - October 31, 1979
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                        business             Loan   Equity    Total
1976      Fabrica Uruguaya de         Motorvehicles           3.80        -      3.80
Neumaticos                  and acessories
1979      Acodike Supergas S.A.       Chemicals and            .95        -        .95
petrochemicals
1979      Astra Pesquerias
Uruguayas S.A.            Food processing        4.50       0.90    5.40
Total gross commitments                            9.25       0.90   10.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             0.24        -       0.24
Net held by IFC                                    9.01       0.90    9.91
Total undisbursed                                  4.77       0.90    5.67
C.   Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1166-UR Fifth Livestock Development, US$17.0 million, October 15, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980).
Project disbursements are more than 15 months behind appraisal forecasts.
As of September 30, 1979, actual disbursements amounted to US$14.7 million,
compared to the US$17 million projected at appraisal. However, the Government
has issued a series of policy measures since August 1978 that have drastically
improved the heretofore unfavorable relationship between prices of inputs and
outputs in the livestock sub-sector and the Government expects tbtat the
improved investment climate will result in a disbursement of most of the
balance available from the loan (about US$2.3 million) by the end of 1979.
Loan No. 1176      Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project:  US$20.8;
December 4, 1975; (Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project implementation remains slow. Faster commitments and disburse-
ments, however, can be expected due to: (i) recently higher interest rate of
competitive credit lines, especially eurodollar loans, (ii) new legislaton
that will speed up obtention of fiscal incentives, and (iii) a larger pipeline
of export subprojects.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1594      Vocational Training and Technological Development:  US$9.7 million;
June 23, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This loan became effective on April 27, 1979. Satisfactory progress
is being made in project implementation.
Loan No. 1689      Second Highways:  US$26.5 million:  June 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:  About 3 years
(b)  Preparation by:  Consultants working in cooperation with UTE
and the Bank
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: December 1976
(d) First Bank Mission: June 1976
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: October 1977 1/
(f) Negotiations: August 28 - September 7, 1979
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a)  The Government has agreed to prepare a program for financing
the power sector (paragraph 28);
(b) The Government and UTE have undertaken to adjust UTE's rates
to meet agreed rates of return and UTE's financing needs
(paragraph 29);
(c) The Borrower has undertaken to carry out a study of the tariff
structure (paragraph 29);
(d) UTE has undertaken to carry out a development study (paragraph 35);
(e) UTE has undertaken to carry out a management study (paragraph 46);
(f) UTE has undertaken to have the external auditors carry out a
salary study (paragraph 46);
1/   Appraisal was updated in May 1979.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) The Guarantor will carry out an energy study (paragraph 56);
(h) That the IDB loan has been approved (condition of effectiveness
(paragraph 64);
(i) That the Government fulfill its commitments regarding payment
of electricity bills (condition of effectiveness, paragraph 64);
(J) That UTE's bylaws and their regulations have been enacted
(condition of effectiveness, paragraphs 42 and 64); and
(k) That independent auditors have been engaged (condition of
effectiveness, paragraphs 34 and 64).



IBRD I53
NOVEMBER 17
URUGUAY
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
A                                                                          PeroROiJEC IBR D Mess -'arked I DE B)             qNDER CONSThLlCTIOM
ART IGAS~~~~~~ ,~~~                      150ESDV T raoieeirn Lines                         500 kV Transmissionl Lines
TOries  ~ ~ ~ ~                        -        60W   Transes s~~~~~~ar~~. Li~~~e~                150kV Traesmissior  Lines
____  30 kV Tronm sero  Lines                           Hy0    Pa
A   R   T   I  G   A    S                                                     15 kV  Tranrs,mseor TiriOs                        Ex,siri Subsialaos ta be Expanded
A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lExistng Hy&ic Plant to be- Expanded                                                         EXISTIV
WxI-,o Er-m                                                                   Arecs 'ein4 Acces ro Electincily                    ISE5 Trn-smission L iris
RuPF"                                                     .S'lVERA                                                                              Greo      Plaints
-       Hydra
.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .  ' /  *~~~~~~~~i~~~                                 U ~~~ Thermal
A       Dwsa
Ilt.iJCdfl..                                                                                                                                        Diesel t. be Retiiid
Solso Grosine  -                    Oremqoeros                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area Served
I  ~ ~ ~       ~           ~            ~~                       ~~~=~~~~~~N~~~~~~-.-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~        R,ers
E TA I                    S AL  TO 0                                                                                                                ....
/    R   I  V   E   R  A                                         Dnepoatono  gonrdaries
*  .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA                                                  SANISNi.V                                 N.
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0 
I -  ho                                                                                                                          rhd
-  I                                                                                                                       RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sc Cerriixi
F-                       1
R   1  0                                                                             C /..  TTiE R R       AL                PdA   R   G ve
E   G  R ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ijlGnooCE RR                                                     L AR              O       Bar
Rorgosso              N-.. -.              R~~~A48-qulasol          ....    A  Txno,,, A..* 
V  oloor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -AR E I N TA   Y  1TR E 51
MERCEDES              \\RII 
~   RINIDADdl                                               Odoe       A       A0Jvsl'i                                                       i.
S     OR         I  A   N   0        \pi
Chileno                                                                                         L  A   V   A   L  L  Ore  NEm1J /A             ALreo
'   ~h*~                      LOE               DA ~FLORsz
SA~~~~~~~~~
A.,~~
CANE  O                                         0          4<'  00                                          c00T
BUENOS AIRES                                                                                                      Poori..r>A ME R IC A 
ViOrQi.e  </i                e~cor  2          oMAION~ADO
MONTEVIDEO                                           a                                    N                   I
P,,M. d.1 Cr1. 
ARGENTINA                            '                                 TATCOEN-
0      20       40      60      80      10         so aisroiisoiei se*Onrfrioru  i iiirri5
I   I                  ririsririrrisoui,nni,iO riirihuiiOiflri 5fed.5O~io,n,eioidi5
or   r hrio,redrsiosi riirrsi,roiOrik0
iL ~ ~ ~~~i                                                                              il000R                              55bO,0.ioriioil.r rrisuin,iiaiii



