 OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 1779 UR
 DOCUMENTS
Guarantee Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated         W  arf, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1779 UR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMEN1, dated       ixA.--vcL, 1980,
between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Administraci6n Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones
Elctricas (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor


﻿-2-
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
(b)   The Guarantor undertakes to cause banks owned by
the Guarantor to provide to, and at the request of, the Borrower
a standby line of credit of not less than the equivalent of
$1,500,000.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part C (g)
of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Part C (g)
of the Project, through Direcci6n, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) In the carrying out of Part C (g) of the Project, the
Guarantor shall:
(i) by June 30, 1980, employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) by December 31, 1981, furnish to the Bank for
comments the conclusions of such study; and
(iii) prepare, on the basis of the conclusions of such
study and the comments of the Bank thereon, a
master energy plan.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause Direcci6n to
establish and maintain separate accounts on its records to be used
exclusively for Part C (g) of the Project and to register in such
accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection with
such Part of the Project, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any


﻿-4-
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the firntions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall take all necessary action,
including the granting of all necessary authorizations, import
licenses, foreign exchange permits and all other approvals
required under the laws of the Guarantor, for ensuring the timely
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor undertakes that it shall compen-
sate the Borrower for any losses arising from fire, explosion,
flood, storms, accidents, earthquakes, war or civil disturbance
incurred by the Borrower which are not covered by external insur-
ance or the self-insurance fund referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Guarantor shall take all necessary action
to transfer to the Borrower, upon completion of such facilities:
(a) full ownership and operational responsibility for the Palmar
hydroelectric facilities and the Salto Grande non-common transmis-
sion facilities; and (b) all responsibility for debt related to
such facilities, provided, however, that the Borrower shall be
responsible for fifty per cent only of such debt due during the
period running from the date of transfer of such facilities
through the end of the calendar year in which such transfer is
made.
Section 4.05. The Guarantor shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank, by March 31, 1980:
(a) a program satisfactory to the Bank for the financing of
the Guarantor's power sector investment plan through the year
1983; and
(b) a report on the cost and financing of the power projects
in Uruguay, including those being carried out with neighboring
countries, which are not carried out by the Borrower, such report
to include proposals for modifying as required the surcharge on
electricity services used to finance the contributions of the
Guarantor to the Fondo Energftico Nacional in order to achieve a
reasonable level for the contribution by electricity consumers in
the financing of such projects.


﻿-5-
Section 4.06. (a) The Guarantor shall pay and shall cause
each of its d7partments and national agencies, or subdivisions
thereof, including municipalities, to pay:
(i) all their outstanding debts to the Borrower as of
December 31, 1979 for past services rendered,
within the period ending June 30, 1980; and
(ii) all debts to the Borrower for services rendered
or to be rendered by the Borrower, on or after
January 1, 1980, within 75 days after the date
of billing.
(b) In the event that any debt included in paragraph (a)
above shall not be timely paid to the Borrower in accordance with
such paragraph, the Guarantor shall promptly pay such debt to the
Borrower on behalf of the debtor.
Section 4.07. The Guarantor shall approve by April 15, 1980
a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for setting the Borrower's
rates for the sale of electricity at levels sufficient to enable
the Borrower to achieve, in the year 1980, a rate of return     of
7.5%.
Section 4.08. Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of the Prior Guarantee
Agreement are hereby deleted.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Ministro de Economia y Finanzas of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economfa y Finanzas
Colonia 1089
Montevideo
Uruguay


﻿-6-
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINECON                             269 MINECON UY
Montevideo, Uruguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of t-e day and year
first above written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction dnd Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    -Lday of AaA -, 198 AL.
FOR SECRETARY


