OFFICIAL,     LOAN NUMBER 1779 UR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y
TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
Dated            oL y ,l,          1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1779 UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       oq&WaNC ..-  O       , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRAS-
MISIONES ELECTRICAS (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) in order to finance works related to those included
in the Project (said works being hereinafter called the IDB
Project), the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-
American Development Bank (hereinafter referred to as IDB) a
loan (hereinafter referred to as the IDB Loan) in an amount of not
less than twenty-four milleon dollars ($24,000,000) to be made
available on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter referred to as the IDB Loan Contract) to be entered
into between the Borrower and IDB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Electricity Law" means the electricity law of the
Guarantor, No. 14,694, dated September 1, 1977, including the
regulations to such law as issued by the Guarantor in Decree No.
339/979, dated June 8, 1979 and the regime for periodic tariff
adjustments as issued by the Guarantor in Decree No. 498/979,
dated September 5, 1979, and such term includes all amendments to
such law, regulations and regime;
(b) "UTE Law" means the by-laws of the Borrower referred to
in Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement, and such term includes the
regulations to such by-laws;
(c) "Tribunal de Cuentas" means Tribunal de Cuentas de
la Naci6n, of the Guarantor;
(d) "Ministerio" means the Ministerio de Industria y
Energla, of the Guarantor;
(e) "Direcci6n" means Direcci6n Nacional de Energla
of Ministerio;
(f) "ANCAP" means Administraci6n Nacional de Combustibles,
Alcohol y Portland;
(g) "ANTEL" means Administraci6n Nacional de Telecomunica-
ciones;
(h) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for
Loan No. 712-UR (Power Generation and Distribution Project) of
November 25, 1970 between the Bank and the Borrower, and "Prior
Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agreement for Loan No.
712-UR (Power Generation and Distribution Project) of even date
between the Guarantor and the Bank;
(i) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(j) the term "nuevo peso" and the symbol "N$" mean the unit
of the currency of the Guarantor; and
(k) "non-common facilities" means the Uruguayan solely-owned
transmission facilities of the binational (Uruguayan-Argentinian)
Salto Grande Project.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four
million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A,
B and C (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Project, all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices.
(b) Part C (g) of the Project shall be carried out by the
Guarantor as provided in the Guarantee Agreement and for this
purpose the Borrower shall make available to the Guarantor, upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall be
substantially the same as those contained in this Agreement in
respect of repayment of principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time
to time from the Loan Account for expenditures for Part C (g) of
the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, within its
Planning and Development Division, a Project Unit, to be respon-
sible for:
(i) the coordination of, and assistance with, the
preparation of plans and designs for the Project
and the IDB Project;
(ii) the coordination of, and assistance with, the
preparation and issuance of bidding documents and
the evaluation of bids and recommendations for
awards of contracts;
(iii) the preparation of construction schedules;
(iv) the general supervision of construction of the
Project and the IDB Project; and
(v) the reporting thereon.
The Project Unit shall be headed by the Manager of the Planning
and Development Division of the Borrower, who shall be a qualified
and experienced engineer, responsible to the Borrower's General
Manager and assisted by the consultants to be employed pursuant to
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement for the purpose of carrying out


﻿-5-
Part C (a) of the Project, until such time as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree that qualified employees of the Borrower have
been trained to take over the consultants' responsibilities.
(b) The Borrower shall provide the Project Unit, promptly
as needed, with such qualified counterpart staff, funds and
other resources as shall be required for the efficient operation
thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) For the carrying out of Part C (a), (b),
(d), (e) and (f) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) For the carrying out of the study included in Part C (c)
of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than May 31,
1980, invite proposals therefor from suitably qualified consul-
tants; and (ii) employ, not later than December 31, 19R8., consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience, and terms ani conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) ensure that the study included in Part C (b) of the
Project be completed by September 30, 1980;
(ii) (A) carry out and complete not later than June 30,
1980, an electricity load measurement program,
satisfactory to the Bank, such program to provide a
preliminary basis for identifying the composition
of electricity losses in the Borrower's systems and
to serve as an additional data input to the study
to be carried out under Part C (c) of the Project;
(B) cause the study included in Part C (c) of the
Project to be completed not later than June 30,
1981 and discuss with the Bank the findings and
recommendations thereof and the proposed program
for carrying out the recommendations of such
study, and put into effect, starting not later
than June 30, 1982, such recommendations as shall
have been agreed upon between the Bank and the
Borrower in accordance with an agreed time sched-
ule; and (C) furnish to the Bank not later than
December 31, 1980 a report on the nature, size and
occurrence of electricity losses in the Borrower's


﻿- 6 -
systems, including terms of reference and a work
program for further studies needed to recommend a
long-term program for reduction of losses;
(iii) (A)   ensure that the study included in Part C (d)
of the Project be completed by September 30, 1980;
and (B) discuss with the Bank the results of such
study and the proposed program for carrying out the
recommendations of such study, and put into effect,
not later than June 30, 1981, such recommendations
as shall have been agreed upon between the Bank and
the Borrower; and
(iv) (A)   by June 30, 1980, furnish to the Bank for
comments the findings and recommendations of
the study included in Part C (f) of the Project;
(B) prepare on the basis of such findings and
recommendations and furnish to the Bank for its
agreement, by September 30, 1980, the proposed
structure and policies for staff compensation; and
(C) implement, by January 1, 1981, such structure
and policies.
(d) The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Part C
(e) of the Project, discuss with the Bank, by December 31, 1980,
the recommendations of the independent auditors referred to in
Section 5.02 of this Agreement for the staffing and operations of
the internal audit unit of the Borrower and the production of
timely quarterly income statements, cost accounting reports and
adequate management information, and the Borrower's proposals for
carrying out such recommendations.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods:
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, studies, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it, to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly reports of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, giving information on the progress of the Project and
the operating and financial performance of the Borrower, including
a list of the outstanding debts of the Guarantor, its departments
and national agencies, or subdivisions thereof, including munici-
palities, to the Borrower, and information on billings and col-
lections regarding such debt; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such
reports within sixty days after the end of the respective quarter.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in.such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,


﻿-8-
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
or rights in respect of land, or both, as shall be required for
the construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
or rights in respect of land, or both, are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
(b) The Borrower shall, beginning in the year 1980, set up a
self-insurance fund against risks which are not insured through
external insurance.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all dams, earthworks,
dikes and all other hydroelectric works and installations of the
Borrower to be periodically inspected in accordance with appro-
priate engineering practices in order to determine whether there
are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in their condition
or in the quality and adequacy of their maintenance or the methods
of their operation which may. endanger their safety, and, in the
event that any such deficiency or potential deficiency is dis-
covered, the Borrower shall promptly take all steps required to
correct such deficiency or to eliminate such potential deficiency.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall increase the professional staff of the Borrower
by sixty-three additional professionals, in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) by April 30, 1980, employ a training expert acceptable
to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
for the purpose of evaluating the Borrower's staff training
programs and assisting the Borrower in developing a comprehensive
training program for the Borrower's staff;
(b) by November 30, 1980, exchange views with the Bank con-
cerning the recommendations of such expert and a proposed program
for carrying out such recommendations; and
(c) promptly thereafter, carry out a staff training program
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plait its future expan-
sion and conduct its business, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and public utility practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate and competent staff.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
for the orderly transfer of ownership and o,erational responsibil-
ity to the Borrower of the facilities described in Section 4.04 of
the Guarantee Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) include the facilities referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section in its assets account at full
value; (ii) include the debts related to said facilities in its
liabilities account; and (iii) include the Guarantor's capital
contribution towards the construction of said facilities in its
equity account.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times operate and manage
such facilities, as well as its other plants, equipment and
property, and from time to time make all necessary repairs or
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
public utility practices.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the valuation
of the facilities referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Electricity Law pertaining to valuation and revaluation of works.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
existence and right to carry on its operations and shall, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all necessary steps that
are required to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, without affecting
the legally required auditing by the Tribunal de Cuentas; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,


﻿- 11 -
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, promptly as needed from time to time,
all such steps as shall be required (including, but without
limitation, action with regard to the adjustment of the level of
its rates for the sale of electricity, such action to include,
inter alia, exercising its rights under Decree No. 498/79, dated
September 5, 1979) to provide the Borrower with revenues suffi-
cient to cover all operating and administrative expenses,
including taxes and levies, if any, adequate maintenance and
depreciation, and yield an annual rate of return, beginning in
1980, on its rate base, both calculated in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, of not less than 6%.
In case that, in any one year, the annual rate of return is less
than 7.5%, the difference between the attained rate and 7.5% shall
be compensated in the next year.
(b) On or before July 31 of each year, the Borrower shall:
(i) review, on the basis of realistic estimates and
forecasts, its revenues to ascertain whether they
will be sufficient to produce the annual return
required by paragraph (a) of this Section for the
current year and the next following year;
(ii) furnish to the Bank the results of such review;
and
(iii) inform the Bank of the measures taken or proposed
to be taken by the Borrower, if necessary, in
order to achieve the required rate of return.
(c) Section 5.04 of the Prior Loan Agreement is hereby
amended to read the same as paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the auditors referred
to in Section 5.02 of this Agreement to prepare a report and


﻿- 12 -
recommendations for alternative asset revaluation procedures
which would, inter alia, adequately reflect the effects of exter-
nal inflation; (ii) furnish to the Bank not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1980 said report and recommendations together with the
Borrower's proposal for putting such recommendations into effect;
and (iii) put into effect such proposals as shall have been
approved by the Bank.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a
later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, which-
ever amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt, including the debt proposed to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Borrower
including debt for the service of which the
Borrower is responsible, maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross operating
revenues excluding customer contributions and
deposits, adjusted to take account of the Bor-
rotier's rates for the sale of electricity in effect
at the time of incurrence of debt even though such
rates were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue relates,
less all operating expenses, including direct costs
of operation, administration, overhead and adequate
maintenance expenses, taxes and levies, if any, but
before provision for depreciation, interest and
other charges on debt,


﻿- 13 -
(iv) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another
currency such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valua-
tion, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
obtain, as and when needed for maintaining an adequate liquidity
for its operations, short-term credits, from banks owned by the
Guarantor, of not less than the equivalent of one million five
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000).
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall take adequate measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for (i) collecting, within the period
ending on June 30, 1980, all the Borrower's overdue accounts
receivable as of December 31, 1979 from the Guarantor, its depart-
ments and national agencies, or subdivisions thereof, including
municipalities, in respect of electricity supplied by the Bor-
rower; (ii) collecting bills issued on or after January 1, 1980,
within 75 days of the issuance thereof; and (iii) the timely
payment of the Borrower's debt to the Guarantor, its departments
and national agencies, or subdivisions thereof, including munici-
palities and ANCAP.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business and undertaking, including the
Project.
Section 5.09. In accordance with the timetable included in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) transfer all assets, staff and auxiliary services and
facilities related to telecommunications operations to ANTEL;
and


﻿- 14 -
(b) enter into normal commercial agreements with ANTEL for
the supply of electricity and other services related thereto, and
the purchase of telecommunications and other services related
thereto.
Section 5.10. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall retain in its business all its earnings.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Electricity Law or the
UTE Law, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect adversely
the carrying out of the Project, the performance by the Borrower
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement or the opera-
tions or financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank has received evidence that new By-laws for the
Borrower and Regulations under the By-laws have been enacted in a
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) the IDB Loan Contract has been duly signed;
(c) the Bank has received evidence of adequate progress,
satisfactory to the Bank, towards the fulfillment of the obliga-
tions set forth in Section 4.06 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(d) a decree has been enacted granting the Borrower the
necessary authorization from the Guarantor to carry out all
procurement required for the Project; and


﻿- 15 -
(e) the independent auditors referred to in Section 5.02
of this Agreement have been employed.
Section 7.02. The date    5Yu41L  7, 1180  , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Administraci6n Nacional de Usinas y
Trasmisiones El'ctricas
Palacio de la Luz-Paraguay 2431
Mbntevideo, Uruguay
Cable address:                       Telex:
LUX                                 850 UY ANTEL
Montevideo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 16 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 11%tb         *4   r-0tA      ia Q*t4"
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS
Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
By                                Repesntaiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Imported equip-            18,600,000          100% of for-
ment and mate-                                eign expendi-
rials, and an-                                tures
cillary services
(2) Consultants'                3,400,000          90%
services
(3) Unallocated                 2,000,000
TOTAL       24,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $900,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1979; and (b) in respect of contracts not exceeding
in value the equivalent of $10,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1980-1981 power devel-
opment program, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Montevideo Distribution
Renovation and expansion of the distribution networks in
Montevideo, including approximately the following facilities:
(i) 210 kilometers of underground cables for 30 and 6
kilovolts and for low tension;
(ii) 6 substations (new and extensions) with about 80
megavolt-ampere transforming capacity;
(iii) 750 kilometers of bare and insulated conductor;
and
(iv) 200 transformer stations with about 50 megavolt-
ampere transforming capacity.
Part B:   Interior Distribution
Renovation and expansion of distribution networks mainly in
the following zones: Treinta y Tres, Valentines, Tacuarembo,
Rivera, Rocha and Chuy, and including approximately the following
facilities:
(i) 920 kilometers of overhead lines for 60, 30, 15 and
6 kilovolts and for low tension;
(ii) 40 kilometers of underground cables for 30, 15 and
6 kilovolts; ,
(iii) 17 substations with about 100 megavolt-ampere
transforming capacity;
(iv) 230 transformer stations with about 25 megavolt-
ampere capacity; and
(v) Capacitors aggregating 10 megavolt-ampere.


﻿- 20 -
Part C:   Consultants' Services
Consultants' services for:
(a)  the organization, operation and staffing of the Project
Unit, and for assistance with Project planning, design
and implementation;
(b) a study of the Borrower's generation development program
for the years 1980 to 2000;
(c)   a tariff structure study based on marginal cost cri-
teria;
(d) a management study of the Borrower;
(e)   a study of the Borrower's internal auditing, financial
reporting and cost accounting and management information
systems;
(f)   a study of the Borrower's staff compensation structure
and policies; and
(g) a study of the Guarantor's energy sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1983
through   October 1, 1994                   1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.60%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              3.20%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.90%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender documents relating thereto, as the case may
be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.&f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on a
c.&f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   For bidding purposes, goods shall be grouped in such manner
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower prior to
issuing the invitation to bid.


﻿- 24 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received with the recommendations for award together with
the opinion of the consultants to be employed pursuant to Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement for the purpose of carrying out Part C
(a) of the Project, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of sucT, zontract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Accuunt


﻿- 25 -
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sio- of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency and except where specifically provided for under
the terms of the contract) which would increase the cost of the
contract by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
4.   Any modification, waiver, extension or change order, made
in accordance with the provision to this paragraph, shall be
sequentially numbered and each subsequent change order shall
indicate the total contract price as agreed under the previous
change order, the details of the agreed change in contract price
(if any) under the change order and the total revised price
resulting therefrom.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Employment of Additional Staff*
The table below sets forth the categories of additional
staff** to be employed pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement
and the timetable for the employment thereof:
Engineers                     Other
Electrical Civil Accountants Professionals Total
October 1, 1979       18       5       -            8        31
March 31, 1980
April 1, 1979         11       1        2           6        20
September 30, 1980
October 1, 1980        7      -        1            4        12
March 31, 1981
63
*    The number of additional staff given herein shall be in-
crease. in respect of each period by the equivalent of the
number of staff whose service has been terminated during
that period.
**   Students in their last year are included.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 6
Methods of Calculating
Rate of Return
For the purpose of Section 5.04 (a) of this Agreement:
1.   The rate of return in respect of any fiscal year will be
calculated by relating the Borrower's net income from operations
for that year to the rate base during that fiscal year.
2.   The term "net income from operations" means gross operating
revenue less all operating and administrative expenses including
adequate maintenance, straight-line depreciation, insurance or
self-insurance premiums, reserves for bad debts, taxes (including
income taxes) and levies, if any, or any payments in lieu thereof,
but without deduction of interest or other charges on debt. The
term "gross operating revenue" means the proceeds from the sale of
electricity, including fixed charges and claim fees, but excluding
connection fees (which shall be considered non-operating income).
3.   The term "rate base" means the average gross value of total
fixed assets in operation as revalued at least once every calendar
year in accordance with methods of revaluation acceptable to the
Bank less average accumulated depreciation, plus current assets at
the end of the year.
4.   The average gross value of the total fixed assets in opera-
tion will be determined by adding the gross value of the total
fixed assets in operation at the end of a fiscal year to the gross
value of the total fixed assets in operation at the beginning of
that year and dividing the total by two; and the average accumu-
lated depreciation will be calculated by adding the value of
accumulated depreciation at the beginning and at the end of the
year and dividing the total by two.
5.   The term "current assets" means the sum of cash, bank depo-
sits, accounts receivable resulting from the sale of electricity
and inventories of parts and materials. Until the Borrower has
introduced a system for accounting for its operating inventories
which conforms to sound accounting practices, as certified by the
independent auditors referred to in Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment, the term "inventories of parts and materials" shall mean the
full amount of "Inventories" as shown on the Borrower's balance
sheet for the fiscal year.


﻿- 28 -
6.   The annual depreciation shall not be less than 2.5% of the
average gross value of fixed assets in operation, revalued as
indicated in paragraph 3 above.
7.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, for fiscal years
1979 and 1980 asset revaluation shall be calculated by applying a
revaluation index (RI) given by:
RI -0.5   [CLI t  +ERt   ]
[CLIt-1   ERt-11
For subsequent years the revaluation shall be based on the
alternative procedures referred to in Section 5.04 (d) (iii) of
this Agreement.
*    CLI: Consumer Price Index, published by the Direcci6n Na-
cional de Estadfstica of the Secretarfa de Planeamiento,
Coordinaci6n y Difusi6n, an agency of the Guarantor.
ER: Official Selling Exchange Rate (nuevos pesos per dollar)
in the commercial market, in December 31 of the corres-
ponding fiscal year.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 7
Timetable for the
Separation of UTE and ANTEL
1.   Separation of both staffs:                   October 31, 1979
2.   Assets:
(a) setting of criteria for the
separation:                            December 31, 1979
(b) final allocation of all assets
(rent will be mutually charged):       December 31, 1980
3.   Mutual billing for services rendered:
(a) light and power and telephones:           January 1, 1979
(b) other common services:                    January 1, 1980
4.   Collecting for services:
(a) rendered after January 1, 1980,
within 75 days of the billing
date, starting                           January 1, 1980
(b) rendered up to December 31, 1979        December 31, 1980
5.   Final agreement on the amount owed due
to asset allocation, recording of this
amount in the books of both entities
and settlement of this balance              December 31, 1980


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    iL    day of ., .AOA., 198 a2..
FOR SECRETARY


