Document of                      FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3320-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
May 14, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Ecuador implemented a system of multiple exchange rates on March 3,
1982. The exchange rate for the petroleum sector remains at US$1 = SI .25,
that for non-oil exports is US$1 = S1. 30. The exchange rates for non-oil
imports are US$1 = S/.28 for essential imports (e.g., food, raw materials)
and US$1 = SI. 30 for all other imports. There is also a free market rate
that has been fluctuating around US$1 = S/. 40.
Currency Unit: Sucre (SI.)
Calendar 1981             May 1, 1982
US$1      =  S/. 25             = S/. 30
SI. 1     =  US$0.04            = US$0.03
S/. 1,000 =  US$40.00          = US$33.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
SECAP     Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional
(Ecuadorian Training Service)
CONADE    Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ecuador
Amount:              US$16.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee of approximately US$0.24 million.
Terms:               Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace at
11.6 percent interest per annum with a front-end fee of
1.5 percent.
Project
Description:         This project would help the Ecuadorian Training Service,
SECAP, to carry out the next phase of its long range
development plan by: (i) increasing output of its
centers and mobile units annually to about 2,800 new
skilled workers and by upgrading skills of about 13,400
workers; (ii) improving quality of instruction through
equipment installation, teacher training and instruc-
tional materials production; and (iii) strengthening
SECAP's planning, supervision and evaluation ability.
Ten new training centers would be built and equipped, two
existing centers would be expanded and another re-
equipped, five mobile training units would be acquired,
and a facility for instructor training and materials
production would be provided. Technical assistance and
training for SECAP staff would improve the capacity of
the institution to plan and deliver training programs.
Special Risks:       Management and local cost financing problems affected the
first vocational training project, but these difficulties
have been substantially resolved by the present Govern-
ment, which strongly supports skills training. These
risks are expected to be minimal under the second proj-
ect. SECAP's current management has been successful in
advancing the first project and would be supported by
technical assistance and additional staff to assure effi-
cient execution of the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                      Local   Foreign    Total
------US$ million-------
(a)  Training Centers             11.1      10.6      21.7
(b)  Mobile Units                  0.0      0.2        0.2
(c)  Consultants Services          0.1      0.6        0.7
(d)  Fellowships                   0.0      0.3        0.3
(e)  Project Administration        0.4      0.1        0.5
Baseline Costs               11.6     11.8       23.4
Contingencies:  Physical    1.2        1.2        2.4
Price       4.3       3.3        7.6
Total Project Costs          17.1     16.3       33.4
Front-end fee on
Bank Loan (rounded)       0.0       0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required   17.1       16.5       33.6
Financing Plan:           Bank                          0.0      16.0       16.0
Government                  17.1       0.0       17.1
Suppliers' Credit            0.0       0.3        0.3
Bilateral Grants             0.0       0.2        0.2
Totcl                       17.1      16.5       33.6
Estimated
Disbursements:                       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
---US$ million by Bank Fiscal Year--
Annual           0.6     1.1      2.4     8.3      3.6
Cumulative       0.6     1.7      4.1    12.4    16.0
Rate of Return:      n.a.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3643b-EC, dated May 10, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$16 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee of about US$0.24 million, to help finance a Second
Vocational Training Project. The loan would be repayable over 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY l/
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 3723-EC
entitled "Ecuador: Economic Development Issues" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1981. Annex I provides the main social
and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploitation of petroleum
in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom in 1972. From 1972 to
1980, real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7.6 percent and per capita
GNP rose from US$320 to US$1,220, a level which places Ecuador amongst the
Bank's middle-income borrowers. Even though the living conditions of many of
its inhabitants improved during the seventies, owing to the low levels from
which the country started at the beginning of the oil boom, Ecuador's social
indicators still lag behind those of other countries with similar levels of
per capita income.
4.        Since 1978 the rate of economic growth has been slowing down,
averaging about 4.5 percent in 1979-1981. Sagging private investment because
of political uncertainties (elections in 1979, a border conflict with Peru
and the death of the President, in an airplane crash, in 1981), stagnating
petroleum output and, lately, declining international prices of Ecuador's
main exports account for the slowdown of economic growth.
Social Developments
5.        Income distribution in Ecuador is skewed, as in many less developed
countries. Thus, while a sizeable middle class has emerged, about 40 percent
of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute
poverty. Population growth is estimated at 3.4 percent per year and the
Government does not yet have an active family planning program.  This rate of
population growth will continue to strain the ability of the Government to
alleviate poverty through the provision of social services.  Open unemploy-
ment in urban areas is estimated at 6.5 percent; underemploym(-t, owing ir
part to workers' lack of skills, is estimated to be around 25-30 percent.
1/ Updated version of Part I in Report P-3272-EC of April 15, 1982 for a
National Low-Income Housing Project.



2 
6.        Twc of the reasons for Ecuador's skewed income distribution are
highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal access to
public services -- especially education, health services, and agricultural
extension. For example, 60 percent of the country's farmers derive their
livelihood from only 11 percent of the arable land. Their farms are small --
less than 5 hectares -- and tend to be of the poorest quality. Low levels of
education, primitive cultivation techni.ques, scarce use of technical inputs
and limited access to credit and to commercial marketing contribute to low
farm productivity and incomes. Farms over 10 hectares produce from 1.3 to
2 times more per hectare than smaller farms, and the income of many small
farmers barely exceeds subsistence levels.
7.        Growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and rural upper
classes. Public expenditures have been concentrated in urban centers.
During the seventies, only about a quarter of total public investment was
channeled into rural areas, where 56 percent of the total population and most
of the country's poorest live.  Primary school coverage has been expanding
significantly, but the benefits of education remain unequally distributed.
Illiteracy in urban areas is around 6 percent versus nearly 40 percent in
rural areas. Indians, who constitute about one-third of the population, live
primarily in the rural areas, especially in the mountains. While Indians
speak their own languages and have their own cultural patterns and value
systems, the Spanish language and Western culture predominate in the public
schools as well as in local administration and businesses.
8.        In order to improve living conditions for the poor, the Government
is pursuing a development policy with a strong social component. In rural
areas a strategy of seeking rapid agricultural growth is now complemented by
an emphasis on inriegraL-.i *ural development.  Real public ouLIEyi _or "gri-
culture increased by over 20 percent in 1980 and public services for the
rural sector were drawn together under a rural development secretariat.
Agricultural price controls are also under revision and farmgate prices of
several items (sugar, wheat, milk) have already been raised. These and
related measures are intended to provide better production incentives and the
basis for more effective programs in the rural sector in the years ahead.
Balance of Payments and Fiscal Policies
9.        Imports increased at an average rate of 10.2 percent per annum in
real terms during 1972-80. The main forces behind this increase were:
(i) the high investment rates achieved during the earlier part of the period
and the related demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial
and transport sectors; (ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial
sector; (iii) special imports; (iv) the growing demand for food; and (v) the
relative low price of imported goods as a result of an exchange rate that
appreciated around 45 percent in real terms between 1970 and 1981. Real
exports of goods, on the other hand, increased annually by only 2.0 percent
during the same period. Export earnings increased mainly because world
prices for Ecuador's exports, especially oil, went up. In order to create
stronger export incentives and slow down the increase in less essential
imports, the Government devalued the sucre by about 20 percent for all
non-oil exports and imports on March 3, 1982, thus partially offsetting the
real appreciation of the sucre. This action is an important first step in
stimulating non-oil exports (thus diversifying the economy), and in reducing
the incentives for activities which are overly dependent on imports.



-3-
10.       Owing mainly to favorable developments in the terms of trade,
Ecuador's trade balance was positive in 5 out of 8 years in the period 1973-
1980. Nevertheless, the current account showed a deficit equivalent to about
6.6 percent of GDP on average from 1976 to 1980 owing to high interest,
insurance and transport payments. Moreover, in 1981, the decline in the
prices of oil, cocoa, and coffee, and the steep rise in interest rates in the
international capital markets brought the current account deficit to an
estimated 8.1 percent of GDP. Short-term capital outflows resulting from the
border incident with Peru, the death of President Roldos, and a rising spread
between domestic and foreign interest rates contributed to drawing down
international reserves in 1981. By the end of the year, net international
reserves of the Central Bank stood at about US$560 million, equivalent to
about 2.3 months of imports. Even though this is the first year that Ecuador
has lost reserves since 1976, a continued stagnation of exports could result
in a serious foreign exchange constraint in the coming years.
11.       Income gains resulting from the oil boom, expansionary fiscal
policies, and a slow growth of the domestic supply of food resulted in infla-
tionary pressures in the 1970s. Price controls and heavy imports of food
staples, however, helped to curb these pressures: the consumer price index
rose at an average annual rate of about 13 percent during the decade. The
present Government, which took office in 1979, decided to deal more directly
with implicit inflation and raised the domestic prices of petroleum products
and of some agricultural goods (sugar, wheat, milk), and embarked on a
program of decontrolling prices. In the long term, these actions should
result in higher domestic production of agricultural goods and lower growth
of domestic consumption of petroleum products. In the short run, however,
they have brought to the surface the artificially suppressed inflationary
pressures. In 1980, a doubling of the minimum wage (decreed by Congress)--
well above the increases in productivity and consumer prices--also added to
inflationary pressures. As a result, consumer prices rose at an annual rate
of 15 percent during 1981, and inflation in 1982 is also expected to run at
about 15 percent.
12.       Fiscal policies have been expansionary.  After the public sector
deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP in 1977, the Government imposed budgetary
restraints on public investment. These restraints, together with a doubling
of world petroleum prices, helped to bring the deficit down to 2.0 percent of
GDP in 1979. In 1980, however, the newly installed Congress approved a
budget higher than that proposed by the Administration. The 1980 budget
increased central Government expenditures by over 30 percent in real terms,
raising the public sector deficit to an estimated 4.3 percent of GDP. These
expansionary policies were continued in 1981; the public sector deficit for
that year is estimated to have been about equivalent to 5 percent of GDP.
13.       Public external debt outstanding nearly tripled between 1977 and
1981, in large measure because the public sector deficits have been financed
through external borrowing. Moreover, as most of the newly contracted debt
was provided by commercial sources, terms, maturities, and grace periods have
hardened. Consequently, Ecuador's public debt-service ratio increased from
9.9 percent of exports in 1976 to an estimated 30 percent in 1981.



-4-
Sectoral Developments
14.        The agricultural sector of Ecuador has had a rate of growth aver-
aging only 2.2 percent p.a. since 1972.  Nevertheless, the sector accounted
for 13 percent of GDP in 1980 and as it employs about one-half of the total
labor force, its productivity is low. Specific constraints to sector growth
include price controls, subsidies to competing food imports, inadequate
infrastructure (mostly roads), insufficient credit, world market price
fluctuations for main export crops, and limited farm-level extension
services. Domestic food production grew some 17 percent between 1972 and
1980, while the population increased some 30 percent. As a result, even
though Ecuador remains a net food exporter, food imports rose sharply. The
Government has begun to improve production incentives to remedy this
situation (para. 8).
15.        The manufacturing sector of Ecuador (excluding petroleum refining)
expanded by 10 percent per year in real terms between 1972 and 1980 and at
present accounts for about 16 percent of GDP. Linkages between Ecuadorian
industry and other sectors of the economy are, however, weak. Moreover, the
system of investment incentives has biased relative prices against labor and
hence has tilted investment toward more capital-intensive activities.  In an
effort to address these problems, the Government raised interest rates (thus
keeping them at positive levels) and devalued the sucre in early 1982
(paras. 9 and 19).  It is now analyzing measures to modify tariffs and trade
policies in order to increase efficiency in the industrial sector and to
stimulate exports.
16.        Ecuador became a net exporter of petroleum in 1972.  By 1980 oil
accounted for 54 percent of export earnings, 48 percent of Government reve-
nues, and 13 percent of Ecuador's GDP. Nevertheless, annual production in
1980 was only 1 million barrels higher than the 76 million barrels produced
in 1973. Production has stagnated because exploration efforts practically
ceased between 1973 and 1979. The present Government is giving priority to
increased exploration and secondary recovery: in an effort to renew interest
by foreign oil companies in Ecuador, it has sent a new hydrocarbons law to
Congress and prepared thew draft contracts. It has also allocated about US$80
million per year to CEPE, the national oil company, for exploration and
secondary recovery. The Government expects the secondary recovery program to
increase the country's production by 16 percent in 1984.
17.        Petroleum exports declined during the latter part of seventies as
domestic consumption rose rapidly, stimulated by low domestic prices and high
GDP rates of growth. To curb the growth of domestic demand, the Government
tripled domestic gasoline prices and doubled the prices of other petroleum
products in February 1981. Further price adjustments are expected, although
on a more gradual basis. These and other recent conservation measures --
doubling import taxes on energy-inefficient vehicles, for example -- should
help to reduce the growth of domestic demand of petroleum products.  Together
with an ongoing major switch from thermal to hydropower generation, these
measures will free more oil for export and reduce the reliance on thermal
power, which currently accounts for about three-fourths of total electricity
generation, to about one-quarter by 1985.  The domestic price hikes have
increased Government revenues by about US$240 million per year. These
increases are being used, in part, for oil exploration and improvements of
social services.



-5-
Outlook
18.        During most of the past decade, the Government of Ecuador directed
the proceeds of petroleum exports to investment projects which generally
corresponded to the needs of the country. It also fostered a climate
conducive to private investment which, in turn, stimulated the process of
industrialization. The Government's use of incentives, however, proved
largely ineffective for developing the agricultural sector and generating
employment. Finally, serious distortions occurred in the past owing to the
very low domestic prices for petroleum derivatives.
19.        The present Administration, which inherited a host of economic
problems, is committed to pursuing economic development by fostering a
climate favorable to private investment and improving the living conditions
of the lower income segments of the population. To this end, it has taken a
number of important and politically difficult corrective measures:  the most
important of these were the substantial increases in the prices of petroleum
products (para. 17).  The Government has also taken steps to bring other
prices more in line with market conditions.  In mid-1980 it raised the price
of several agricultural products; in 1981 and again in 1982 it increased
interest rates, lowered export duties on raw cocoa and coffee to encourage
their production and, in March 1982, devalued the sucre for non-oil trade.
These are important steps in the right direction and should encourage
conservation of scarce resources, exports, agricultural production, and
domestic savings.
20.        Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.  To
develop this potential fully and efficiently, continued adjustments in the
country's economic policies are needed. The Government initially aimed at a
6.5 percent annual GDP growth rate for the 1980-1984 period. In light of
1980-81 growth rates, and the recent drop in the international price of
petroleum, this goal may prove to be difficult to reach. If the Government
takes measures aimed at further petroleum conservation, expansion of
production through secondary recovery and oil field rehabilitation, and
vigorous promotion of exports other than petroleum, it could relax the
foreign exchange constraint and growth in the first half of the 1980s might
average about 4 percent annually. Attainment of this growth rate, however,
will still require continued external borrowing at about present levels. In
order to reduce the need for borrowing after the mid-1980s and to lay a basis
for resumed accelerated growth of GDP, oil exploration must be intensified in
the near future. If these efforts are successful, Ecuador will remain
creditworthy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR l/
21.        Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 0hzn a loan was
made for a first highway project.  Including the recently  1,--   A Natic.-,r '
Low-Income Housing Loan, the Bank and IDA have extZ'nded 30 loans and six
credits to Ecuador totalling US$671.8 million net of cancellations. As of
1/   Updated version of Part II in Report P-3272-EC of April 15, 1982 for a
National Low-Income Housing Project.



- 6 -
March 31, 1982, US$287.8 million of this amount had been disbursed.  The IFC
has approved eIght loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company
and one each benefited a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise, a
pulp and paper firm (later cancelled), a palm oil plant and a leasing
company. The IFC has also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development
finance company. As of March 31, 1982, these operations amounted to US$48.1
million in commitments of which IFC held US$41.2 million.
22.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been
hampered by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn,
reflects the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and
technical resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to
Ecuador's economic and social development.  In recent years, the Government
and Bank staff have worked together to step up disbursement of Bank loans.
These efforts are paying off. Disbursements rose from US$16 million in FY78
to an annual average of about US$34 million in FY79-80. In FY81, disburse-
ments increased by nearly 35 percent to a record level of US$45.7 million and
disbursements during the first three-quarters of FY82 are running well ahead
of last year's pace. Ecuador's disbursement rate in recent years has been
roughly in line with the average for Latin American countries.
23.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 26 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for trans-
port were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power accounts for 18 per-
cent of total Bank lending to Ecuador.  The first three power operations
aimed at improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito while the
FY82 power transmission loan would help expand the national power transmis-
sion grid. The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67, marked
the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program away
from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other loans
and credits for agriculture and fisheries, five DFC loans and one loan for
small-scale enterprise credit to support industrial development, a credit and
a loan for education, one loan for water supply, two for urban development
and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group support for technical assis-
tance activities and involvement in the directly productive and social
sectors now accounts for about 56 percent of total Bank and IDA lending.
24.        Turning to the future, Bank operations will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effec-
tively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural
poor. Bank lending will emphasize, wherever possible, the design and adop-
tion of adequate sector policies, as well as the generation of exports and
employment. In addition to the vocational training project recommended in
this report, the Bank is preparing a power project and a second small scale
enterprise credit project. The education and small-scale enterprise credit
operations would improve employment prospects for the population while the



-7-
power project would lead to savings in fuels and greater volumes of petroleum
available for export.  In addition to Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing
several possible operations, principally in agribusiness.
25.       Substantial development financing has also been pro'lLded to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral
sources. IDB has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans
from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1981 totalled almost US$818 mil-
lion equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agri-
culture, health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the
country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2
percent interest, a 10-year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40
years. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender
in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented proj-
ects continuing to account for a large share of its lending program. USAID,
which had lent Ecuador US$103.6 million equivalent through 1972, made no new
commitments to the country between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however, USAID
renewed its operations in the country, providing about US$36 million in new
loans, guarantees and grants since then. Its program concentrates on urban
and rural development.
26.       As of December 31, 1981, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt
committed, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$4.1 billion. Bank
Group lending constituted about 12 percent of this amount and acounted for
about 5 percent of the public and publicly-guaranteed 1981 external debt
service. IDB lending was equivalent to about 15 percent of Ecuador's debt
and US bilateral assistance accounted for another 3 percent. Through 1985,
the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt is expected to
remain below 15 percent and the Bank's share of debt service is projected to
remain between 8 and 9 percent.
PART III - VOCATIONAL TRAINING SECTOR
Overview
27.       Demand within Ecuador's economy for skilled workers, particularly
middle-level laborers, exceeds the capacity of existing programs to train
them. The estimated total output of all institutional sources in 1979-80 was
about 2,000 newly skilled industrial workers p.a. versus an estimated average
annual demand of 18,000. Despite ongoing efforts to broaden training
programs, the output of training institutions by 1984 (including graduates
from centers financed under the first Bank vocational training project) is
still not expected to exceed 20 percent of annual incremental demand for
newly trained workers.  In addition to this problem of supply of skilled
workers, Ecuador's labor force also suffers from deficiencies in quality. To
reduce the human resources constraint to economic growth, further improve-
ments in workers' skills, especially in the sectors of industry, commerce and
agricultural services, will be required.



28.       The factors contributing to this inadequate supply of skilled
workers are several. First, Ecuador's formal education system has a strong
academic orientation. Thus a low proportion of secondary school technical
graduates directly join the labor force. In 1978-79, for example, less than
a third of graduates from secondary school industrial programs entered the
labor force; the remainder went on to higher education, and can be expected
eventually to assume professional, white-collar jobs.  Secondary school
courses in commerce (the bulk of secondary technical training) are, for
instance, generally viewed as a good route for gaining entrance to law and
economics faculties of the universities. This predilection for higher educa-
tion reflects the public's limited perception of the potential income-earning
capacity of middle-level workers and of the greater prestige attached to pro-
fessional occupations among families whose children are completing secondary
school.
29.       A second cause of skills shortages is the inadequate capacity,
low funding and poor equipping of vocational training institutions, particu-
larly those which attend to workers and potential workers who have less than
a secondary education. These institutions produced only 1,700 new industrial
workers in 1980. Furthermore, these institutions are concentrated in
Ecuador's two principal cities of Quito and Guayaquil, leaving the three-
quarters of the population residing outside of these cities especially
limited in their access to skills training.
Government Objectives and Strategy
30.       The National Development Council (CONADE), which has major respon-
sibility for planning economic and social development, set targets for the
formation of human resources required for economic growth in its 1980-1984
Development Plan. CONADE's estimate of annual incremental demand for indus-
trial workers is 35,900; for commerce and sales personnel, 11,000; for
farmers and agricultural workers, 54,900, and for services 20,800. These
figures include both skilled and unskilled workers. These estimates, which
assumed a 6 percent growth rate, are high, since GDP has actually been grow-
ing at 4-5 percent, but even targets adjusted to more realistic growth rates
would greatly exceed current training capacity.
31.       To meet training needs associated with these demand projections,
the Government is expanding the training capacity of public institutions. It
has assigned to the relevant agencies training targets in the various
sectors. These agencies have developed their own expansion plans to meet the
national targets, and it is in response to the development plan of the prin-
cipal agency providing vocational training, the Ecuadorian Training Service
(SECAP), that the proposed project was developed.
Institutional Framework
32.       In the public sector, skills training for workers just entering the
labor force is mainly the responsibility of SECAP (paras 34-41 below) and
large public sector corporations, such as the Ecuadorian Electrification
Institute and the Ecuadorian Petroleum Corporation for the energy subsector.
The Ministry of Education shares this responsibility to a lesser extent, and
offers technical education in secondary schools through its "diversified
cycle" (Grades 10-12), following nine years of general education. Students



- 9 -
in these secondary programs specialize in industrial, commercial, agricul-
tural, arts or home economics fields; most concentrate on commercial train-
ing. Because of the secondary schools' academic emphasis and lack of
practlcUl training, graduates eiLtertng the work force are Lften poor quality
worker7, requiring additional on-the-job instruction. The Government has
soughi: to correct these deficiencies, with assistance from both the Bank
Group and the Inter-American Development Bank. The project funded through
IDA Credit 124-EC was only recently completed (see para 42). Vocational
programs for most of the 28 schools involved in that project became oper-
ational in 1977-78 and produced their first graduates in 1980. The IDB-
financed program has just begun.
33.       Private sector training institutions are numerous (around 500) but
are concentrated in the business skills field, and are small in overall
output. As technical training becomes more expensive, the role of private
sector training institutions is expected to diminish relative to public
institutions. As a whole, private sector training agencies do not coordinate
with each other to assure efficient response to demand for training nor do
they conduct follow-up studies to assure that their trainees are placed and
performing adequately. On the other hand, increasing cooperation between
private business and industry and public sector training agencies can be
expected as the latter attempt to become more responsive to the labor force
needs of the economy.
SECAP Vocational Training Programs
34.       The principal public agency responsible for training skilled and
semi-skilled workers is the Ecuadorian Training Service. SECAP is a semi-
autonomous entity, under the Labor Ministry, established in 1966 and governed
by a board of directors representing Government, private enterprise and trade
unions. The board is chaired by the Minister of Labor and includes the
Education and Industry Ministers.
35.       SECAP offers flexible training programs at no charge for both new
trainees and those currently in the work force. Three types of training
programs are offered: full-time programs for youths 14-18 years of age,
adult programs for new trainees and upgrading programs (mostly at night) for
employed workers. A minimum of six years of formal schooling is required of
entrants into full time youth and adult programs, while upgrading is offered
to working adults desiring to upgrade their skills. SECAP's curricula and
course syllabi emphasize applied shopwork, and are thus strongly employment
oriented.
36.       SECAP enrollment in 1980 totalled 20,580, of which 850 were new
trainees and the remaining 96 percent were in upgrading courses. One-fifth
were in agriculture and food processing, 35 percent in industry and construc-
tion and 45 percent in commerce and services. About two-thirds of SECAP
trainees are from low-income urban groups and some one-third of participants
are women.
37.       Administration of SECAP's programs occurs at central, regional and
local levels, although at present the regional and local levels coincide
because of the limited number of training centers. Policy is determined by
the board of directors, which normally meets monthly. An executive director,



- 10 -
appointed by tLLe board of directors for an indefinite term, is the central
administrative officer and is assisted by five directors (planning, tech-
nical, operations, administration, and legal and public affairs). Adminis-
trative and planning staff are young and somewhat inexperienced; half are
under 31 years of age and two-thirds have less than four years of expe-
rience. In 1980, SECAP offered programs through six centers (four of which
were in Quito and Guayaquil) and four mobile training units. Facilities are
used for both daytime and night courses. Some expansion of these facilities
is occurring through an ongoing Bank-financed project (see discussion of Loan
1157-EC in para 43).
38.       Curricula for SECAP have been developed by experienced Ecuadorian
specialists with assistance from bilateral and multilateral-financed
experts. Eleven industrial programs are regularly offered and short courses
in services, commerce and other industrial areas have also been utilized.
These curricula are well-balanced and adapted to regional conditions. The
training costs per student-hour at SECAP compare favorably with those of
similar programs elsewhere in Latin America. However, SECAP's limited facil-
ities restrict the agency's ability to prepare classes, counsel teacher
trainees and develop and print teaching materials. SECAP currently has 210
full-time instructors as well as additional part-time instructors principally
for evening classes. Average industrial experience of the instructors is 11
years. Recruitment of instructors, an obstacle in earlier years, is
presently adequate, owing to better working conditions and benefits despite
lower pay compared to private industry.  SECAP gives pre-service and in-
service training to both its full-time and part-time instructors (about 250
in 1980). However, facilities for this training are currently overcrowded
and inadequately equipped.
39.       Student evaluation, placement and follow-up is not yet fully devel-
oped, although SECAP has obtained bilateral assistance to strengthen some of
its efforts in these areas. Students' applied workshop activities are fairly
well evaluated but the in-plant phase of apprenticeship programs is not
adequate. Job placement is the task of the local centers, assisted by the
central operations department. The placement of graduates is good. A recent
follow-up study of 1976-79 graduates of new worker training programs shows 97
percent employed in their fields within four months of graduation. Graduates
of the regular full-time programs usually perform as medium-level skilled
workers after a short period of on-the-job experience. Participants in the
upgrading programs frequently move into technician and mid-management posi-
tions.
40.       Financing of SECAP's operating costs is derived from contributions
from an obligatory wage levy (0.5 percent) on business and industry and from
the Government. The law establishing SECAP provides that the Government
should match the private sector contributions from the previous year in
financing operating expenses.  SECAP's operating expenses in 1981 were equiv-
alent to about US$5 million. This is expected to double, in constant terms,
by 1986 when the proposed project's centers begin to operate. High receipts
from the wage levy in 1981 made Government contributions for operating
expenses unnecessary. This is expected to be a temporary phenomenon, how-
ever, in view of the planned rapid expansion. Under the proposed project,
the Government has agreed to provide SECAP with all funds necessary to carry



- 11 -
out its training programs (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). In
effect, the Government has agreed to supplement the receipts fom the wage
levy as needed to assure adequate financing of the operating budget.
41.       CONADE has assigned to SECAP responsibility for fulfilling training
needs for new and middle-level workers in the following occupational cate-
gories: office workers, sales and commerce personnel, agricultural
administrators and machinery operators, industrial workers and restaurant and
hotel employees. By 1984, SECAP projects annual outputs of 18,260 upgraded
workers and 1,020 new workers in these fields, 29 and 6 percent, respectively
of demand.
Bank Group Lending in Education
42.       The Bank Group has made one Credit (124-EC of June 27, 1968 for
US$5.2 million) and one Loan (1157-EC of September 3, 1975 for US$4 million)
to Ecuador for education, the first for technical secondary education and the
second for vocational training. The Credit supported a Ministry of Education
effort aimed at introducing a revised, more practical curriculum and at
providing improved, better equipped facilities in 28 secondary schools.
Initial delays occurred because of staffing and funding difficulties and
problems in recruiting specialists. The bulk of project execution took place
in the mid-1970s but finishing works, such as water and electrical
connections in labs and workshops, were delayed. When the current Government
assumed power in mid-1979, it assigned the funding necessary to complete the
project satisfactorily by the end of 1980. Bearing in mind the funding
difficulties encountered at early stages of this project's execution, special
assurances regarding funding of local costs are included in the proposed
project (para 40).
43.       The second education project provided the first Bank assistance to
SECAP. The project's execution is currently proceeding rapidly after a slow
start attributable to high staff turnover and limited counterpart funding
under earlier administrations. The Quito industrial training center will be
expanded by 600 places, a new industrial skills center is being constructed
at Duran, near Guayaquil (1,245 places) and two mobile training units are
being acquired, to reach an additional 500 persons in rural towns. Project
completion is expected in late 1982.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed project was identified in 1980 when SECAP began to
explore ways to meet the skills training objectives set out in Ecuador's
1980-84 Development Plan. SECAP prepared the project with some funding from
the Bank's first vocational education loan (1157-EC) which had a component
for supporting studies. The project was appraised in May-June 1981 and the
appraisal mission's report (3643b-EC, dated May 10, 1982) entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report: Ecuador - Second Vocational Training Project" is being
distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary Project Data
Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington on April 16, 1982,
and subsequent comments were exchanged by cables May 3-6, 1982.   Mr. David
Vera, head of SECAP, led the discussions in Washington.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The main objectives of the proposed project are to assist SECAP to
(i) increase its training capacity for both new workers and those needing
upgrading; (ii) improve the quality of its training through equipment instal-
lation, instructor preparation and materials production; (iii) expand its
geographical coverage; and (iv) strengthen its planning, supervision and
evaluation processes. Specifically, the project would include:
(a) construction of ten new centers, as well as an instructor training
and materials production complex;
(b) expansion of two existing centers and re-equipping of one existing
center;
(c) the addition of five mobile training units to SECAP's ongoing
mobile training program;
(d) provision of technical assistance through consultant services;
(e) training for selected SECAP staff at similar institutions in other
countries; and
(f) project administration.
46.       The first component, construction of ten new centers and an
instructor training and materials production complex, represents the bulk of
project costs. These new centers would provide capacity for over 16,000
trainees. Three of the new centers would replace current centers which
operate in inadequate rented quarters. One of the ten, a graphic arts train-
ing center, would be part of the building which would also have instructor
training students and materials production facilities. The graphics and
printing equipment would be used both for training and for large scale print-
ing of training materials required by SECAP.  The instructor training facil-
ity would, by 1984, have capacity for preparing 130 new instructors per year
and providing an equal number with in-service training during vacation.
These new facilities would cost about US$20.6 million, or 88 percent of total
project costs (excluding contingencies).
47.       Additional classrooms and workshops for two existing centers and
the re-equipment of a third would help expand and upgrade the training now
offered. Five percent of total base expenditures, or US$1.1 million, would
be directed to this component.
48.       Five mobile units would be purchased to increase SECAP's outreach
to rural areas and smaller towns. These would be added to the nine mobile
units already operating or to be put into operation in the near future.  Each
mobile unit would consist of a light truck with specialized training equip-
ment and would normally be operated by a single instructor who <.luld use
local physical facilities at each site visited. The mobile units would
provide training in agricultural mechanics (1), electrification (1), food
preservation (2) and metal mechanics (1). The purchase cost of these would
be US$200,000 or nearly one percent of total base costs.



- 13 -
49.       The thirteen training centers to be constructed or improved under
the proposed project would be distributed throughout SECAP's four geographic
regions: North, Central, South and West (see Map No. 16068R). Five towns
would have SECAP training centers for the first time (Machala, Esmeraldas,
Loja, liobamba, Manta) and five towns would have improved facilities (Quito,
Guayaciil, Ambato, Cuenca, Santo Domingo). The mobile units would work
mainly in rural areas and small towns, with logistical support from fixed
centers according to a plan to be produced with technical assistance provided
under the proposed project.
50.       With regard to institution building and technical_assistance, the
project includes 14 years of consultant services.  SECAP's medium- and long-
term planning and evaluation systems would be improved through one year of
specialist assistance. The medium-term development plan, which would aim at
improv->g SECAP's training capabilities, through 1990, would be prepared with
the aid if these advisors and would be sent to the Bank for review and
comment by December 31, 1984 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). It
would include demand projections for skilled workers and related training
expansion plans. In addition to assistance in planning and evaluation, 13
consultant years of technical assistance would be provided either through the
loan (8 consultant years) or through ongoing bilateral agreements (5 consul-
tant years) with vocational training institutions in Costa Rica, Brazil and
Colombia. Areas to be strengthened include (i) organization and management;
(ii) instructor training and teaching aids; (iii) mobile and in-plant train-
ing program development; (iv) curriculum and syllabus development; and
(v) equipment use and maintenance and industrial safety. The cost per
consultant month would be about US$4,000 for experts fully funded under the
loan. The selection, qualifications, terms and conditions of employment of
all consultants under the project would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Those consultants with salaries financed
by bilateral agreements (about 60 person-months) would have travel and per
diem expenses covered under the loan at an average monthly cost of US$1,600.
Total funds allocated to consultant services, including bilaterally funded
salaries valued at an estimated US$210,000, equal US$660,000 (3 percent of
project costs). Because of the size and complexity of the proposed technical
assistance program, SECAP has named a full-time coordinator to be responsible
for execution of this program.
51.       Further technical assistance is being provided to SECAP by the
Governments of Spain (164 months), Italy (36 months) and the United Kingdom
(30 months) as well as the International Labor Organization (22 months).
These specialist services, valued at US$1.2 million, support objectives
broader than those of the project and therefore, are not included in project
cost estimates. Similar assistance to SECAP is being negotiated with the
Governments of West Germany, Brazil and Italy.
52.       A training program has been developed with the Brazilian, Costa
Rican and Colombian SECAP-type organizations to provide about 14 staff years
of overseas training for about 50 SECAP officials. Instructors, directors
and teacher-trainers would benefit. Some US$270,000 of loan funds (about
1 percent of project base costs) are allocated to this activity.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
53.        SECAP would be responsible for project execution.  The existing
project implementation unit from the earlier Bank-financed SECAP project
(1157-EC) would be strengthened in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to
supervise, coordinate and monitor project activities (Section 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement).  In addition to the unit director, who has already
been selected, staff would include coordinators of civil works, technical
assistance and furniture and equipment, as well as accounting and support
personnel. Salaries of key unit personnel contracted to manage the project
would be financed with proceeds of the proposed loan as would travel expenses
of these staff and some office equipment. Total allocation of funds for
project administration is estimated to equal US$0.5 million, or 2 percent of
project base costs.
54.       Construction associated with the project would be undertaken by
contractors, with SECAP supervising with the assistance of private architec-
tural consultants (financed in part with loan funds). SECAP would coordinate
all complementary aspects of the project including curriculum preparation,
instructor training, equipment purchase and materials production, so as to
put each new center into full operation as soon as it is completed. Eleven
of the fourteen programs of study already have complete curricula and the
remaining three (for the new programs of refrigeration textiles and shoe-
making) would be developed with technical assistance provided by the
project. Full-time instructors would increase from the current 210 to 500 by
the final year of project execution, with their training taking place in the
existing instructor training center until late 1984, when the project-
financed replacement center is ready. Printing and binding of teaching mate-
rials would be done at the proposed materials production facility. Labor for
this task would be provided by student trainees from the graphic arts train-
ing center. Project implementation is expected to be completed by June 30,
1986, four years after loan approval. This relatively short execution period
reflects experience in the past two years with the ability of SECAP's current
management to accelerate execution of the first Bank project, as well as firm
Government commitment to skills training.
Cost and Financing
55.       The project's total cost, net of identifiable import duties and
taxes, is US$33.4 million. The foreign exchange component is US$16.3 mil-
lion, or about 49 percent of project costs. Estimates are based on March
1982 prices. Price contingencies are based on projected 12 percent inflation
rate for local costs except for construction, which has been experiencing a
16 percent annual price increase. Foreign cost contingencies are based on a
6 to 8 percent inflation rate over the period 1982-1986, except that price
increase projections for equipment, based on estimates of major school equip-
ment suppliers, are 8 to 10 percent. Physical contingencies equal 10 per-
cent. The proposed loan of US$16 million would cover 97 percent of the
foreign exchange costs as well as the capitalized front-end fee of about
US$0.24 million. Bilateral grants from several Latin American governments
would finance foreign consultant services equal to one percent of foreign
costs. Through an agreement with a Canadian firm, imported electrical equip-
ment for the training centers would be financed via a US$300,000 equivalent



- 15 -
supplier's credit. This credit would cover the remaining foreign component
equal to two percent of project costs. The Government would finance the
project's local cost portion, equivalent to 51 percent or US$17.1 million, of
total costs. About 70 percent of current expenditures needed to operate the
training programs at the centers are expected to be generated by the wage
levy (para 40), and the Government has committed itself to providing SECAP
all the additional funds necessary to meet operating requirements (para. 40).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Civil works, expected to total US$11.3 million (base costs), would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank, in which foreign bidders could participate. These procedures are
appropriate because the project includes 12 scattered sites and individual
contracts are expected to average US$940,000 and thus are not likely to
attract foreign contractors. The local construction industry has sufficient
capacity and competitive prices to undertake such works. Furniture for the
centers, having a base cost of US$600,000, would also be procured through
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Most equipment, estimated to cost
US$8.3 million excluding contingencies, would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Equip-
ment lists and bidding documents are under preparation. Frequently, interna-
tional suppliers of equipment will not be able to provide all items in a
diverse list. To provide for this risk, the project would allow equipment
packages of between US$20,000 and US$200,000, up to a total of US$1,000,000,
to be procured through local procedures acceptable to the Bank (generally
competitive local bidding). Small or specialized items under US$20,000 would
be procured through local shopping up to an aggregate value of US$200,000.
Under the procedures described, an estimated 86 percent of equiprent would be
procured through international competitive bidding, 10 percent through local
competitive bidding and 4 percent through local shopping.
57.       Disbursements would take place over four and one-half years and
would cover the following percentages of eligible project costs: (i) 24 per-
cent of total expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported furniture and equipment and of ex-factory costs for
locally produced furniture and equipment; (iii) 85 percent of local expendi-
tures for off-the-shelf purchases; (iv) 100 percent of expenditures for
mobile units; (v) 100 percent of technical assistance and training expendi-
tures; and (vi) 100 percent of key administrative costs for project execu-
tion. Up to US$100,000 in retroactive financing would be permitted for
design work or technical assistance expenditures made after June 15, 1981.
Monitoring and Evaluation
58.       Direct supervision of project execution would be the responsibility
of the project unit coordinators of civil works, equipment and technical
assistance. Private architects would supervise construction of civil works
for new centers. Check lists are being developed to aid the respective
project unit coordinators in their monitoring tasks. A small (2-person)
evaluation unit would be strengthened through technical assistance provided
under the project. It would focus on overall project impact on national
training needs (including employment opportunities for women) as well as



- 16 -
aiding supervisors in evaluating student performance.  A pilot study of
improved job productivity resulting from skills training would also be under-
taken by SECAP, based on terms of reference to be prepared with the aid of
the evaluation consultant who would be financed under the project.
Project Benefits
59.       The project-financed new and expanded facilities are expected to
provide incremental capacity for 2,800 new skilled workers and 13,400
employed workers in upgrading courses at any one time. About 1,900 of the
new workers would be in industrial fields, with the remainder in agriculture,
business and hotel/restaurant services. In addition, 130 instructors would
be trained each year. The resulting improvements in instructor skills and
materials, together with better equipment to be made available under the
project, should permit much improved quality of the training provided. About
two-thirds of the trainees are expected to be from low-income groups and
one-third would continue to be women. An important feature of this project
is that a more equitable regional distribution of training opportunities
would result from the expansion of SECAP programs to secondary cities and
rural areas. The institutional strengthening of SECAP envisaged from
project-funded and complementary technical assistance would enhance SECAP's
capabilities in planning, organization and management and quality of
instructors and materials. These capabilities should result in more
effective skills training programs and a better trained worker for business
and industry.
Project Risks
60.       Although current SECAP management has been satisfactory, delays
occurred under earlier Bank-financed education projects and there is some
risk that management problems could reappear. Recruitment of additional
project unit personnel and technical assistance envisaged under the proposed
project should minimize this risk.  Financing of SECAP's recurrent budget
could be affected by an unforeseen downturn in Ecuador's economy which could
lessen revenues from the wage levy paid by business and industry.  Specific
assurances from Government have been obtained to cover any shortfalls (para.
40), and the priority currently given to skills training is also expected to
keep this risk within acceptable limits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for educa-
tion projects. The main features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Attachment                                                 Ernest Stern
May 14, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE8AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM. )                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             283.6                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTUIRAL      51.7               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..        390.0    1050.0 *                  1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA                                        *
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       208.3       316.9      654.1                   1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4413.0        6015.0    8081.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4          39.5       44.0                     64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         14.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         15.6        21.2       28.5                     34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       93.5       123.1      151.0                     94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.4        45.4       44.5                     40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         50.8       51.9                     55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6         3.8        3.6                      4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8         3.1/c      3.3                      2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                4.8         4.5        4.5                      3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.5        43.0       40.3                     31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.7        10.6        9.6                      8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4         3.2        3.0                      2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         9.0       32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        6.3
FOOD ,ND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-I00)          104.0        101.0      100.0                    108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    84.0         91.0       92.0                    107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0         52.0       50.0                     65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         26.0        27.0       25.0                     34.0                       39.7
C"'L' 'AGES 1-) MURTALITY RATE         .6         15.7       -0.3                       7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0          56.2       61.0                     64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            1140.0      118.0       66.0                     70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        34.0       42.0                     65.7
URBAN                                 ..        76.0       84.0                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..         7.0       13.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         22.4       32.3                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..       60.0                     75.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       13.0                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2664.9      2891.8    1621.5                    1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2280.0      1620.9         ..                   1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             531.4        428.9      507.0                    471.2                      262.3
URBAN                                 ..       305.3         ..                    558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                 ..      4570.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         19.3        ..                        ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1/e       5.2        5.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.5/e        ..
URBAN                                2. 17i
RURAL                                2.87r.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               32.0/e        ..       41.2
URBAN                               78.5/e         *'      84.3
RURAL                                6.0/e        ..       11.6



-19-                                                        ANX 
TABLE 3A                                                            Page  2  of  5
ECUADOR - SOCIAL ISDtCATOPS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                     REFERENE GR0UPS (WEIHITED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
HDST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INC0HE
1960  /     1970 /b ESTIMATE tb    LATIN AHERICA 6 CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLnENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        100.0     108.0                     101.7                      105.9
KALE                  87.0        103.0      110.0                    103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                79.0         97.0      106.0                    101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         26.0      46.0                      35.3                       66.3
MALE                  13.0         28.0       48.0                      34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                10.0         24.0      43.0                      35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)  29.0           11.0       11.0/d                   30.1                       28.4
PL'FIL-TEACNER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         38.0      36.0                      29.6                       26.B
SECONDARY                           11.0         14.0      16.0                      15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         67.5/.       68.0       76.6                     80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          4.5       7.4                      42.6                      83.9
gADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUILATION                         38.5        282.6        ..                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5         24.9      45.0                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         41.6      46.3                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            4.0        5.6                      3.2                        5.7
LAHOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1442.7       1936.2    2593.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    16.3         19.1      20.8                      22.6                       32.9
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               57.4         50.9      51.6                      35.O                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.4         22.2      17.6                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RITE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.7         32.2      32.1                      31.8                       42.3
:KALE                                 55.0         52.1       50.4                     49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                10.6         12.3       13.5                     14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.5        1.5                      1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIbUTION
PERCENT OF FRKiAIE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hILGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
NIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLES       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED A8SOLUrE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     269.0
RURAL                                 .                   183.0                     187.6 
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOFIE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     307.0  f                  513.9 
RURAL                                 ..           ..      77.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEKTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ,.      40.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0
Not :vailable
60No appUicable.
NOTES
/a   The s-oop ae-.ages for each Indicator are populnti-oelghted  arithU etUc ...ns.  Cov-r-ge of cOunftres
Ong the ind1cators depends on availlbillty of data and is not ntfoni.
/b   Unless otber'lse noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bet.een 1959 and 1961, for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Est5a.te, bet-en 197b *nd 1979.
It intercensal gro.th rate is 3.21 (1962-74); /d 1975; /e 1962.
* 1980 GNP per capita is US$1220 at 1978-80 prices and exchange rate.
*  The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1,220 (at 1978-80 prices) and
8,357 (thousands).
f/ Updated figures for 1981 are US$553 Urban and US$428 Rural.



- 20 -                                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DIPlMlTlOtt  OF SOCto   IPDItroRS
I.rot  l .  ..toors   ci... dl.  ..c..r.. oI  mos    et  di  .4. h   octhrccctsIO  10.   tsood5tra   or    hr   eda   o                                                   Otr
te.t1oo.l.....trtbls  ..lb.ossfo.ta    f a1    t,oo.c dttddlood                                       b  did-J. roset .o......c  o--  ......tro    oh.  do. Tb   i.et
sPrals.. oaeol tottoc l. ordrs of  e~oiiodt.  o Oct05tc.high.,odS.caoorith..fa inmajor.if tc.icot
-1t.ot         -f-. c ...o.of ...      oredoctaotcoea-t   fosidatoIoIrooe                                0           .            rl ...i.ompeitotOldo
lAID   lto   ho r*todo.ksrLiQAIrrrr-b  odoo-bed _-oj.-    :hor.sod  orsi     Popl_r_oe_ _otPi
:005   -o.ttrreett  rsOcc   tr rt and Ittof otrotr rbr   r    orl   idodb   he    eaera   oros   fhoptiAt
duoIl, to-    ICt dot.                                                                                  mtt    steistro  o-ct -  ief.totoiboft   tptdrooo
O                     U.~~~~~ittoo en   rod.ol.d  c-ottosdoe f. lit. Frtsi-
EfOhOity ccii .OttotOo Pry Carrl - 0-oroel oc,oelrfooh of or.roott  eocrsr  docst  etrotl proyrmet oorbto ho.prats  too  roit 00. prtrolp.td gtttai bo.pieada
tootl Po-  ltto o-ld-orr   0,o et.  -  so  -p-;16(  .97(0  sod  tOH dOtIto
d.ot.                       _-or_t  Oto  of Oor-t-rd -jror   s   0reoi1.-2OTb-.5     e,t-  -
bohr  ort!t.'tt500   oftotl  -partoofc.ot  orro.   ppotolc;4  ooshod   orlsr  o  ascopof  rotodrdl-ro-SrttIlo___Nter
itt.hftco    rto   oso    rt.c.tydftr    olra   14.   ttmdoa   matro-,A  ll:hl                                          t.a.       haoo0  tt              a  or, may        llo hat Iddt
mfoegroorrritt;~ ~o lOt   Ot.ad  0    sr                                                             IIsI ldfrstosbo Idpopoo                  d
Pococtsroo  Orofor loretoert:rr-ooO,ror arcart osr  oooo-oot                                                   yy~~.odrorsd   A         ddhts
Popcltro  tjyt   0th-7orto   pooloOc iolorootar  Ose  onOd                                hr o  prooo  pe  rotio  Itorah.so rIrt Popsdoo..s..ta
totalpopooroo   hr  dt ao  ceoart  toOrorrftoit  od boIl ry  rret   doalooss  rrsecrictr.   cottoogsocl.I troo-peraotostcrotros...
Phdjsotloo  p.oatoroeoa  fr ooorabooy ~o t 0t crorfse of otra. teotO sstsoa-  roooocopO.d rerrosd
f-orosforlerliyrr    t    eerre     ot  atooorgdett Ir                                             oftol    rao    o   ort  ot  osytpcoty
tahooo  ooIsoco   _aord o              f rr.Tleoo.ro.lorotc                                    t.COh
sod  ttttyorsfroottrprOc.01etdoolOet ats
3tsiooryjjylrooo-ls  st oocrr   oortoioo  000   O  oogrofr   too                   Prmaro srot -root  tt-  od  sod              s-ros-rost,mal dt f-(mst
oh,   .. .yttooo I eo...ofor Irerroraorrsr,otrar trcotoyss boo  dfjosord for doff srsrttrorh                                                         r   rtctooo0.   O
rf-aercoortparysOosolfe.a..... C.e..I..o.a.....lrostoa                                ooooosorhrrlrtlo.ccotoUsomOasdtp--et
sIts ha   ecrac d liscosllroflt-ootff  pears.of "I;  orss.oeo .....s  act.......i
Ioftssa; 1967. to7l sod .979 oar,.                                                                 itiotehott.fdsI               l  .o  ohrpor    othoset   tste
sorocotro.rttttoo  - Coa;oa   .5 afoot foresrtraloactttaod         anoly rcs. dep.cc-toodf tIaoodory  oarh........
oolp;           II.IIlw-C-                 .I    .    IOfIr titl1ar  41-dOafs.IYol-Tosob ,p;.rrto-01.%   ro -d4.lyo dc-rsttaso ceoi    s
Perotctyrli   Oeocr   rreo -thde                 ,t ert-  oko-5                 s                    rite      o h, rodcytWet  -lo to. boary T Iir  otraotst 
Al Y---.). arof rertod  .((      .II      . -ysroortss. p-roa...tse  ofmd-.....rpo-                     rrosootstol
htdr; tO6t. 17t. tod  0170 ts.                                                                     adlto  IiL-o:    st2reor-0 orr s-lsthst  ra1,   ors
Poootarton tooootr tea. taeooeA) -toOc    --L000  arOr  roso  oort1 *id-                      set .. tpeosse  of  _oits1      t d   opolrtoo,s.  If y.e.s. t .       or
Pssr popots-to-  for t9tO-ot. to-. o.  tOt-to.
CIode tti   to   2etotod       a..    t               h.rob  per ihoosed of ttd-Yta-                   o.r. troo5tea  ohosgrpsso:crrorhIotthiss
pop_ad it: toD, lts.  rt  d'i Ots.Wiltotrtdtrts
Poooloyt(.d, lO.t...d.t.'I di-                                   ...sisosomor.t.ot..e  oosddirdoosoo    tortoiseI-
Cross teptd.orrorrbe tt-ootooe.r.. e   of..a- 1hotrs  tote 19011bri                             lioss1freoioes t              Io ole   o   o  oss00or0aos  oo,st
btrarotrprooarceprc-of setoerooos   rttocie-psoltfer                 sasoeorff.c:soerrsaso)tactdr-Idhtotpralsit_
sIt taroisf toso  or seao as. doop_                                                         ooolao7ooof0daIly 5soere  looc-eso eCosspecI-, del los  ate  pepooIioa
p000  AOl tttthtllth                                                                                   to he d-oip-  fto ir  Ippcos..         eo...crosesb
fetfe o  fot roioot5.y.   doore(19t-ttlt(  - od i o  poaecoro troo.l                      Coeo  laos.le.o.iro. tI .(..yLftt7      oaor  r or.  r-hr o
rod 00ooo   .1  od   r,00ot    rro.ar   sblosesttso   fedsd                         toloe  tldfoocaohyec  ootritiddscraoritc   t dm
malo   Iocar   -rd.ore  pli-   ego -  :l  91000-hO, tOt0, sod 1079 dart.                    Torost laborFrelhrioaL                  ro.ot  .00    oso.tard
00io-or-oooo   ed-seaO.-Orrldto.Oooot ~ IOOro(yoeor  -Lt-.rooso fd-r.   otsry    ooig   t
booscroodlorol;  oOb-oc. 10. too   oroOar..                            100  eod  100 .t. ..    ~
Per reort syjflr o  1-roootrr_-~~~ yr  oej-tort   rooro   f0-rtlt                       arloOsOcoOf.teaoo)o-sc1l.2rss  P-rotatPato
total proftorts ar toertlcfor ryr e-Itf  poposo-d!o   ott  ohs TIrdR foososeind ayao-Aooo   ocOoood tis d 655
torld P'.-o  Saoc.    1c-o. 010" aoo                 -- totsr.0 oh. hors I labor. boos
ler-rtill. 500etm      -d P4ff -0  Iro    *'jtr.  -Potr  so p It d of food 0.-
ChIld~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -q5tO)0   oooboks   oo.ood       .o.:dih. P,o   oso   t        ertiseo,(oo  r  oo ho                  t  :.a.h trod rirryt    U--     4 ateody0 .-h
dre   dc   feos   r-tteObs;lO.14td  9100  dira.",rhoseIf                                                    d
tOAoi.tO.1000 so    0    ai.adh     fO  1 rI_oorced                                                                          Itro  oosdtotbtoirto
foaoOoOO,rtr-  Io    o   c.0-aot   -erh. of lrf-roso-d-r  ..e r...i.cdrs   oeroro                                             rleeKt  0ropo0t-t tO0 5
Loots. rorsie-atoro 0100 000 0- 0 00o.(.ttIoTJZ.dhhs.L.#b00oOoA.hh0!o - OhS    ooororboosllrtdrlosre freo rcoe eserootel --0- rood 0.0.0<0 05 000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Illld11
heoo=hcl,oa.ors.  o   roL    00recrseaocircfYaloet
pa-er.o.hi.  0isio    IOOo    ototserct.oeo Oro.t(scotro.                                                                                      s.aobt
p.eocessrchlroeporocPootoOot.ltooboorttr.olopeeooa   lcmaofro    ot0.boe   te]te0r00-  O- ehehae
fooofslo  orstrlooso  tooictro                                    L"toaltseeroaoossh            .slrr                              0s              -i
totc   old feor    cra-rbo   00orl  s.oo .                 ore.e.     cd..stie



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECUADOR - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       8,357 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  USS1220 (1980)
Amount            Average Annual Increase (2)               Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million USS           (at consCant 1975 prices)                       (at current prices)
at current prices)    ---- --- -
Indicator                                           1981 a/         1960-70       1970-75    1975-81       1960         1970         '975 a/       1981 a/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product                               13426.5              5.8         11.1         6.0        100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriclture                                         1560.4             4.0           5.4         2.0         33.3         27.6         17.9          11.6
Industry and Mining                                 5087.8             7.3          20.7         5.8         19.3         23.0         33.9          37.9
Services                                            6272.8             6.3           8.0         7.4         47.4         49.4         43.6          46.7
Ccnsuption                                           10257.0              5.0          9.8         6.9         84.6          82.0         79.8         76.4
Gross Investment                                      3426.0             18.7         12.2         6.7         14.0          22.5         26.7         25.6
Exports of Goods and NFS                              2941.7              2.7         15.8         1.1         17.2          14.9         26.2         21.9
Imports of Goods and NFS                              3198.2             10.9         12.6         5.4         15.7          19.4         32.7         23.8
Gross National Savings                                2361.1              n.a.         n.a.       -6.8         12.9          16.2         19.4         17.6
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(at current prices)
1977      1978          1979        1980         1981
MERCPANDISE EXPORTS                                                                  100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0         100.0
Primary                                                                               79.9       73.7         74.1        75.8         78.6
Cr.de Petrole-a                                                                     48-9      40.0          49.2        553 0        6.4
Others                                                                              31.0       33.7         24.9        20.8         17.2
Manufactures                                                                          20.0       26.2         25.9        24.2          21.4
Petrolems Derivatives                                                                0.8        6.1          6.8         7.6          6.5
Processed Cocoa                                                                     13.0       13.5          9.5         9.1          4.2
Fish *nd Seafood                                                                     1.4        1.6          1.3         3.6          3.9
Others                                                                               4.8        5.0          8.3         5.9          6.8
MERCHANDISE IMPORTS                                                                  100.0      100.0        100.0       100.0         100.0
Consaser Goods                                                                      11.2       13.3         8.9         10.8          9.3
Intern,edlate Goods                                                                 43.7       36.8        47.8         49.1         44.0
Capital Goods                                                                       42.8       47.7        48.0         39.8         46.3
Others                                                                               2.3        2.2         0.3          0.3          0.4
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP Deflator (1975=100)                                                            129.9      143.2       168.0        193.1        218.6
Exchange Rate (sucres per dollar)                                                   25         25          25           25           25
Export Price Index (1975-100)                                                      135.4      136.0        190.2       231.5        231.6
Import Price Index (1975-100)                                                      116.3      124.3        139.1       160.3        174.5
Term of Trade Index (1975-100)                                                     116.4      109.4        136.7       144.4        132.7
AS X GDP
PU8LIC FINANCE                                                                                   (at curreut prices)
Current Revenue                                                                                 22.9         28.7
Current Expenditure                                                                             18.9         26.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-5                                                                       4.0          2.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                              7.4          6.5
Foreign Financing                                                                                4.9          5.4
1960-70   1970-75       1975-80    1981-86
OThER INDICATORS
GDP Grovth Rate (2)                                                                   5.8       11.1          6.1         3.5
GDP per capita Growth Rte (T)                                                         2.4        7.5          2.6         0.2
Energy consumption growth rate (%)                                                    -          -           11.7         4.5
ICOR                                                                                  0.7        2.7          4.3         6.6
Marginal Savings Rate                                                                -0.4       -0.4         -0.2         0.1
Import Elasticity                                                                     1.9        1.3          0.7         0.9
*/ Components expressed at factor cost and do not add up because they exclude iudirect taxes.
LCI D
5/12/82



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ECUADOR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS ac current prices)
Population:       8,357 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1220 (1980)
A C r U A L           PRELIMINARY                     P R O J E C T E D
1977      1978         1979        1980       1981       1982      1983         1984        1985          1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net Exports of Goods & Services                           -659.1    -742.2        -646.9      -616.1   -1116.0  -1198.1    -973.8        -1061.0      -1380.3      -1645.9
Exports of Goods & Services                             1628.2    1740.4        2499.3      2936.0    2983.1   3052.7    3576.5         3978.3       4285.1       4647.6
Imports of Goods & Services                             2287.3    2482.6        3146.2      3552.1    4099.1   4250.8    4550.3         5039.3       5665.4       6293.5
Net Transfera                                                36.2      40.9         29.8        40.0       25.0      50         56           63           70           74
Current Account Balance                                   -622.9    -701.3        -617.1      -576.1   -1091.0  -1148.1    -917.8          -998.0     -1310.3      -1571.9
Direct Private Investment                                    34.5      48.6         66.0        80.0       50.0    100.0       140.0        180.0        240.0        28C.O
ILT Loans (net)                                             758.3     648.8        383.5       717.8      735.0   1028.8    1016.5         1191.7       1230.2       1195.2
Official a!                                                                                                       111.0      175.2        224.3       248.0        237.4
Private  a!                                                -          --           --          --         --      918.0      841.0       967.4        982.2         959.8
Other Capital                                              -33.6       35.5        195.2          4.8      12.3    -80.0        30.0         80.0         80.0        100.0
Change in Official Reserves (--increase)                  -136.3      -31.6        -27.6      -226.5      293.7      99.3    -268.7        -453.7       -239.9         -3.3
International Official Reserves                            570.8      602.4        630.0       856.5      562.9    463.6       732.3       1186.0       1425.9       1429.2
Official Reserves (year-end) as sontha of imports             3.0       4.2           3.0         3.5       2.3       1.3        1.9          2.8          3.0          2.7
b/
A C T UAL
1977      1978         1979        1980         1981
CROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Gross Disborseaents of MLT Loans                           890.9      819.2       1118.8       983.8       1259.7
Concessional                                              30.9       20.7         25.2        14.7         28.5
Bilateral                                               12.0        8.8          7.3         3.7          1.5
IDA                                                      4.8        0.8          0.2         -            0.5
Other Multilateral                                      16.1       11.1         17.7        11.0         26.5
Non-concessional                                         860.0      798.5       1093.6       969.1       1231.4
Official Export credits                                 24.6       49.0         12.3        14.2        173.0
IBRD                                                     7.7       22.2         30.9        34.0         54.1
Other Multilateral                                       9.9        8.0         28.6        46.3         47.1
Other                                                  817.8      719.3       1021.8       874.6        957.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                             1659.6    2308.4       2691.8      3344.2        4146.3
Official                                                 394.7      486.3        568.2       656.8        896.2
IBRD                                                    43.6       60.4         85.2       109.4        151.3
IDA                                                     35.7       36.4         36.5        36.3         36.5
Other Official                                         315.4      389.6        446.5       511.1        708.4
Other                                                   1264.9    1822.1        2129.6      2687.4       3250.1
Undisbursed Debt                                           645.8      673.0        860.5      1025.0        865.0
DEBT SERVICE
Total Debt Service Payments                                228.7      299.5        490.6 c/   562.7         915.8
Interest                                                  96.1      129.1        211.0       286.5        483.1
Amortization                                             132.6      170.4        279.6 c/   276.5         432.7
Debt Service as Z of Exports                                 14.0       17.2        19.6 c/    19.2          30.7
RANK GROUP EXPOSURE (X)
IBED DOD/total DOD                                            2.6        2.6         3.2          3.3         3.6
IBRD disbursea ents/total grosa disbursements                0.9         2.7          2.8         3.5         4.3
IBRD debt service/total debt sarvice                         4.2         3.3         1.3         3.3          2.5
IDA  DOD/total DOD                                           2.2         1.4          1.4         1.1         0.9
IDA  disbursements/total gross disbursements                 0.5        0.1          0.0         -            0.0
IDA  debt service/total debt service                          0.1       0.1          0.0         0.1          0.1
a! A double dash stands for "not available."
b/ 1980-1981, official figures.  1977-1979, coverage adjusted by staff for purposes of con. rison.
c/ Excludes prepay.ent of US$456.2 million.                                                                                                               LCID
5(12/82



23
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of March 31, 1982) I
---Us$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                    (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal
Number    Year        Borrower         Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
12 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                   146.0   37.6       -
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education           4.0     -       2.4
1229     1976         Ecuador          Seeds               3.0     -       0.9
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical
Assistance         4.0     -      2.9
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways           10.5     -       0.3
1359     1977         Ecuador          DFC                26.0     -       0.6
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways           17.5     -       7.5
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture        15.5     -      10.3
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical
Assistance        11.0     -      7.9
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0      -      17.4
1731     1979         Ecuador          DFC                40.0     -       8.5
1776     1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0     -     29.4
1879     1980         Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit     20.0      -     10.2
1882     1980         Ecuador          Highways           55.0     -      53.0
1991     1981         Ecuador          Rural Development 20.0      -      20.0
2044     1982         Ecuador          Rural Development 17.0      -      17.0
2045     1982         National Power  Power Trans-
Company         mission          100.0      -    100.0
2096     1982         Ecuador          DFC 2/             60.0     -      60.0
Total                                        598.5   37.6   348.3
of which has been repaid                    89.4    1.1
Total now outstanding                        509.1   36.5
Amount sold                        3.1
of which has been repaid        2.9          0.2      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               508.9   36.5
Total undisbursed                            348.3      -    348.3
1/ does not include US$35.7 million loan for a National Low-Income Housing Project
approved by Executive Directors on May 4, 1982.
2/ approved but not signed until April 22, 1982.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of    (amount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year                                      Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972      La Internacional, S.A.          Textiles    3.7       0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,      Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977      Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
S.A. (COFIEC)                  DFC          -        0.5       0.5
1976             Sociedad Agricola e Industrial
San Carlos, S.A.              Sugar Mill  5.0         -        5.0
1978             Cemento Nacional (CEM)          Cement     12.0       1.1       13.1
1980             Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/          Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0       4.3
1981             Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.  Mining        1.0       0.3        1.3
1981            Palmoriente 2/                   Palm Oil    9.0       1.8       10.8
1982            Ecualease 2/                    Leasing      9.0       0.2        9.2
Total gross comm'.tments                   43.0       5.1       48.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      6.5       0.4       6.9
Total commitments now held by IFC          36.5       4.0       41.2
Total undisbursed                          22.2       3.2       25.4
1/   Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982.
2/   Approved but not yet signed.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982  1/
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation has accelerated.
Construction of the training centers has been completed. Bidding for equipment
purchase is now underway and contracts are expected to be signed before June.
The centers are expected to be functioning by the end of this calendar year.
The present Government has shown strong support for this project, naming a
dynamic director and providing needed additional funds.  The Bank is considering
a possible extension of this project's Closing Date.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project execution has accelerated during the past year and it appears
probable that the project can be completed by the amended Closing Date, June 30,
1982. The implementing institutions (Project Unit, Department of Seed
Certification, National Seeds Council and the Seeds Company, EMSemillas) are
staffed and in operation. Because of the earlier delays, EMSemillas is not yet
operating at full capacity and thus is unable to amortize its portion of the
loan. However, procurement of works and equipment is now underway for the major
facilities and the National Development Bank is providing interim financial
support. Staff training has also accelerated in recent months.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural development
project in Tungurahua Province. More than half of the loan resources will
support hydrological studies for the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which
topographic and prefeasibility studies can be done for agricultural development
in the region. After several years delay, aerial photography for the Guayas
study is nearing completion and related mapping work is underway.
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directo.s regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, asd with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All civil works and technical assistance elements under the project
have been completed. The technical assistance programs have had positive
effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance. Progress is being
made in land transport planning. Disbursements are nearly completed and the
Project Completion Report is in preparation.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project; US$26.0 million Loan of
February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
This project is fully committed and 98 percent disbursed.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about 60
percent of total project costs, is about two years behind schedule and has
experienced cost increases because of design changes. Construction of the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road is also two years behind schedule because of soil and
weather difficulties. The lateral feeder roads to this road have been
contracted and should be completed during 1982.  The study of regional secondary
and feeder roads in three provinces was completed satisfactorily and served as
the basis for the Sixth Highway Project. An extension of the Closing Date may
be required to permit completion of civil works.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened to cover
crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services. In addition,
there are applied research and technical assistance components. Eleven banks
and financieras are participating in lending operations. Eighty percent of the
lending program has been committed for on-farm development, but disbursements
have moved more slowly because the investment plans extend over three years
generally. Also, local counterpart funds have not always been allocated on
time.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After very slow execution during the first three years, the project is
now moving much faster and about US$2.7 million have been disbursed in the last
six months. Good progress is also being made on a study of local consultants
which could have considerable relevance for the implementation of future
feasibility studies.



-27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan of
May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This integrated rural development project is progressing slowly after
about a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between the Central
Bank and participating agencies.   The project unit has been working with
farmers and community groups for the past year, and infrastructure components
are entering the procurement stage.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Banking Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: September 23, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is disbursing
quickly as participating DFCs had a backlog of industrial subprojects under
review. It was almost fully committed within four months of the effectiveness
date and is now over three-quarters disbursed.
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan of
May 9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
All the components of this integrated urban development project are now
underway. Provision of urban services by the Municipality of Guayaquil,
however, has been delayed by institutional problems and land tenure complica-
tions in existing low-income areas. The National Housing Bank (BEV) has nearly
completed a small area of low-cost housing, and its program of home improvement
loans is off to a good start. After initial delays, the credit and technical
assistance to artisan-type enterprises is also working well.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan of
October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This is the Bank's first small scale enterprise credit project in
Ecuador. Although the project became effective only in April, 1981, the pace of
subloan disbursement and completion of institutional development aspects of the
loan are substantially ahead of schedule and a second project is in
preparation. About 30 private banks and financieras are involved in term
lending to small enterprises through this project.
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highway Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date: May 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Feeder Roads Project Unit was established in January 1981 and
agreements with the three participating provinces have been signed. Political
and administrative difficulties have, however, delayed initiation of most
components. These difficulties are being resolved and contracting of civil
works for the first year is now underway, and technical assistance for road
maintenance and transport planning has started.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1991-EC - Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project; US$20 million Loan
of November 24, 1981; Effective Date: June 1, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Effectiveness conditions are being met. The Project Unit is being
staffed and land titling efforts are underway.
Loan 2044-EC - Esmeraldas Rural Develoment Project; US$17 million Loan of
November 24, 1981; Effective Date: June 1, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
Effectiveness conditions are being met and the Project Unit is being
staffed.
Loan 2045-EC - Power Transmission Project; US$100 million Loan of December 4,
1981; Effective Date:  June 4, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
Effectiveness conditions are being met. Terms of reference for
institutional studies are being revised and calls for bids are expected
shortly.
Loan 2096-EC - Fifth Development Banking Project; US$60 million Loan of
_ _    s Effective Date:  June 22, 1982; Closing DAt-:
December 31, 198b
This loan was recently approved.



29
ANNEX III
Page 1
ECUADOR
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS:
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: SECAP
(c) First presentation to the Bank and first Bank mission to
consider project: November 1980
(d) Departure of Appraisal mission: May 1981
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: November 1982
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None.
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Government to provide funds, as necessary, for SECAP to carry out
its training programs (para 40).
(b) SECAP to furnish to the Bank for review and comment its draft
development plan through 1990 by December 31, 1984 (para 50).
(c) SECAP to maintain and strengthen project implementation unit
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to assure efficient execution
of project (para 53).






.,                                                    1.00                                                  I  
8110od                                               7970&                                                 7700'                                                 75 00,
| t a&t)jet q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR D^H                                                       L      0       Alv
Santa~ ~~
de Sucumbios  Lago
000                                                         Ca  mbe                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Santa                                              00
|   r    cf= 4                                                                                                       ECUADOR
Man                  Iceta                                   a /J2Lataugal  SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Potoviej
aS     VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
//0 8 $ g,     Wn.crt  G4iranda   iBaEos         p                                         A INSTRUCTOR TRAINING, GRAPHIC ARTS
80  R                     ~~~~~~YO                          m      AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS COMPLEX
U Y.7 RNATIONAL CAPITAL
I  i b   ba                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~0 PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
Manglaralto                                                                       0                                TOWNS
2000K .f                                     . j         g        mtte                                                             MAIN ROADS                                            200-
U  ~~~'6  ~~~~     Guayaquil                                                                                                SECONDARY ROADS
usi  --,,--.--+ RAILWAYS
4-W----. ~<' S /RIVERS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
Piay a   _ 9    ttZ                           hAioguiXs                                                -   -  -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Guayaquil~~~~~~_     A z Li}4fi 
KILOMETERS,   20       60          100      140       1B0  200
JS nnta Rosa              \                                         MILES0  1,0             ;0 9010
Te                  Ftur                                                            T Rh,s map has been prepared by the W-ord Ranck's staff e-c--valy for   the hn-en
~~j ~~~  .  Piflas  aguro ~~~~~~~~~~of the readers of the report to which it ,o attached. The den-int-n used and the
. \   rZarurno >1 tboundaries showo on this map do cot imply, oo the part of the World Bank and its
I-Ococ                                                       -) \ acceptance of such boundarlies.
-4'O                                        a                                                            at  a  om   on t l  s    o a t               o      r
Celica   LM         C( Zamora                                                   7700                                                 7500c
II      " ,/    I             S              t   MA  t    / I I                                                           I               _                                    I                     j I;



