Report No. PID8784
Project Name                     East Timor-Small Enterprises Project (@+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Small Scale Enterprise
Project                          TPSF70283
Borrower(s)                      RECIPIENT:  UNTAET
Implementing Agency              BANCO NACIONAL ULTRAMARINO
Address: Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Vasco Carrascalao da Silva
Email: bnu.timor@arafura.net.au
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                April 19, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 21, 2000
Projected Board Date             Vice-president signed April 11, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Issues:
While activity is picking up, with a noticeable
difference in level of activity in Dili from February to March, for example,
the situation continues to be very difficult for the East Timorese.
Almost no jobs or goods. Urban residents find it hard to get back on track,
as there is little demand for their services; paid jobs are mainly the few
provided by UNTAET or a spill-over. Most people in Dili are willing to work on
anything for Rp25,000-30,000 ($3-5) per day; in rural area, RplO,000 per day.
Lack of funds also means that destroyed houses are not being rehabilitated,
though some assistance for shelter is materializing. Because of the destruction
of all businesses in the aftermath of the popular consultation results, imported
goods are scarce and expensive, though some prices are
radually returning to more normal levels. Some owners are starting to
rebuild shops with "unburied" savings or repatriated funds.
Few services. Urban utilities and public services are grossly inadequate.
Transport services, mostly UNTAET's, are scant but increasing numbers of private
trucks and public passenger transport vehicles can be seen. Private sector
support services available:
Airlines. Services are expanding; Air North operates daily the Darwin
(Australia)-Dili route, Merpati operates flights Kupang (Indonesia)-Dili and
Denpasar (Indonesia)-Dili. Few East Timorese can afford air travel. Free UN
flights operate between Dili and Darwin, Dili and Oecussi (enclaved in West
Timor) and some other destinations, but are available only for UN-related
travelers.
Shipping. Several shipping companies are active, mostly from Darwin but also
from Surabaya, and queuing seems to be starting in Dili at least. Loading at
one port to unloading at the other is reported to take up to 3 weeks. The



administration of ports, initially military, has been handed over to UNTAET and
is under Australian management.
Banking. No banks operated in East Timor after the popular consultations.
In early 2000, Banco Nacional Ultramarino (BNU, a Portuguese government-owned
commercial bank headquarted in Lisbon) opened an office in Dili, and provides
services for foreign exchange, deposits, payment of pensions, payrolls and
disbursements of Portugal's humanitarian aid; and, payments on behalf of UNTAET
outside Dili. It has the capability for electronic transfers; computer
equipment of international standards (AS400). Also, better electronic
connections are on the way. BNU intends to open a branch in Baucau, refurbish
its old building in Dili, and expand services as soon as the legal procedures
are clear. Westpac (Australia) has a small outlet in Dili open 3 days per week,
dealing in foreign exchange. Westpac provides the banking service to UNTAET,
mainly from Darwin. It is presumed that another bank will open for business
soon.
Public utilities. Postal and telephone services (other than cell phones)
are generally not available. In Dili, some electricity and water supply are
available (at no cost until an administration reestablishes a payment system)
and streets are in good condition. Inter-urban roads are in poor condition and
rapidly deteriorating further, due to heavy military equipment use and no
maintenance. Pertamina continues to supply fuel, at prices now close to
Indonesia's. General garbage goes uncollected. (UNTAET has an Australian
company to collect UNTAET-generated garbage.)
Decreasing humanitarian needs. Initial international aid was directed
mostly to humanitarian needs, food and basic need supplies, and peace-keeping,
that helped restore order and a sense of safety. Most international programs
still focus on welfare programs. However, pledges for "humanitarian" needs
could now be reduced; rural production should provide as much food as it can;
farmer prices should not be depressed by having to compete with free food
distributions. Food aid may still be justified in targeted areas, but a return
to market processes is warranted especially as crops are expected to be good.
Health, schooling and peace-keeping services will continue to need budget
support. Short-term pledges for humanitarian aid total $126 million, while $146
million has been pledged for a Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), managed by IDA
for medium-term development projects. The $4.85 million grant proposed for this
project would come from the TFET. In addition, UNTAET has a budget pledge of
$31.5 million; while the UN has a budget of some $700 million per year for East
Timor activities, including $250 million for peace-keeping.
Preparing for an industrial/service economy. For the medium- and long-term,
if East Timor is to achieve its objectives of higher wages, it needs to develop
an industrial and service economy, with high value-added by labor, a relatively
high capital/labor ratio. The land is of relatively low productivity; even if
new public investments in irrigation are made (water
being a constraint) income from agriculture may remain relatively low. The urban
areas need to be able to absorb increasing numbers of workers. Rural migrants
normally enter informal, marginal, service sectors at low wages in urban areas;
in the post-conflict situation, urbanization is accelerating and the
establishment of slums has to be avoided. East Timor needs to attract private
capital to increase the productivity of its work force. Available skills are
difficult to access, but workers can gradually expand in numbers and skills in
line with demand.
-2-



Priority: public infrastructure. TFET funds should be invested in the
public priorities, but as little as needed to make the rest of each investment
or operation attractive to private commercial ventures where financially
feasible. This would provide leverage to available public funds. Ports and
revenue-earning utilities providing power, water supplies, etc., may attract
foreign private sector interests to invest in East Timor and/or at least provide
efficient services under contract. Telecommunication services should be
profitable enough to be fully privately funded. Still, much public
infrastructure will need 100l public funding (e.g. roads, or a sewerage system,
that offer few cost-recovery possibilities). The public investments should be
made as soon as possible. For instance, road construction priority projects
should be identified, designed, costed and tendered based on international
standards. This would reduce the length of time during which continued
"emergency works" have to be done, and that can only have a short life and thus
no long-term benefit.
Priority: frameworks. To attract private capital and modern facilities to
East Timor and reduce investor risks, "frameworks" need to be developed as soon
as possible to restore normalcy: laws--necessary legislation should be
developed and the judiciary system should function independently and
impartially, with strict penalties for any illegal practice; administration
--public administration should require only a minimum of licenses, simple
processes with a "one-stop" office; a civil service to be kept at a minimum
size. Decision-making would be decentralized to the level that is best involved
to reduce costs to the public and the private sector and enhance accountability
and transparency. Local traditional institutions should be involved wherever
this is more efficient; peace and order must be preserved. Of course,
introducing new systems takes longer than just drafting the laws. UNTAET
provides the interim administration, and will work with East Timorese nationals
for them to learn on the job.
Priority: private sector businesses and capital. The sooner basic public
facilities are built, business infrastructure support is right, or at least
improvements have started, the sooner foreign private investment will come.
East Timorese living abroad for many years are interested in investing in East
Timor as soon as the risk is reduced; in particular, they are interested in
participating in the reconstruction effort and developing new businesses that
later would be able to export competitively. Also, small East Timorese
businesses need working capital to restart activities, if this is to take place
relatively quickly in a widespread manner.
Strategy:
UNTAET is entrusted with the development of East Timor frameworks. Based on
the 1999 Multidonor consultative meeting, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
IDA have divided the areas of responsibility under the trust fund as follows:
ADB has been entrusted with reviewing infrastructure needs and providing
remedial assistance in that sector; IDA has been entrusted assistance to the
private and social sectors and to rebuilding local institutions (up to
sub-district level). Some examples of progress in the 3 priority areas are
given below.
Framework development. By the end of March 2000, UNTAET had issued 13
regulations dealing with banking, a central payment office, business
registration, legal tender, a public service commission and other matters. As
-3 -



lack of frameworks can be an impediment to restarting
private business -- animpediment as binding as lack of funds -- below is an
overview of progress relevant to this project:
Duties. A simple system is adopted: 5t import duty on all goods plus a lump
sum for some luxury and other goods; a 5t income tax; a 5t sales tax; and a 5t
presumptive tax on coffee exports. The levies were effective in March.
Register of business. Registration was started in December 1999. Some 2500
registration application forms and 350 certificates were issued by end March.
The register is manual (on paper forms) and will be difficult to use until it is
computerized. The fee is $10 for an individual or group and $100 for a larger
legal entity. A $500 penalty applies for infractions.
East Timorese travel abroad. The UN in New York is discussing the matter
of passports for East Timorese and it is UNTAET's intention to provide passports
as soon as possible (at cost). Currently East Timorese are allowed to pass the
border for emergencies only, with a temporary (3-month) travel permit at no
cost. Australia accepts East Timorese travel permits and other countries are
starting to accept them as well. In the meantime for foreign businesses, East
Timorese seem to rely on formerly established commercial and banking connections
abroad, and on cell phones. Foreigners, including expatriate East Timorese with
a foreign passport, the more likely to invest, can enter and exit freely.
Property and land registration. Abandoned property is under UNTAET
administration currently; UNTAET can assign/permit use of abandoned buildings.
However, this does not preclude future claims by earlier private owners coming
back. UNTAET provides titles to owners; there is reported to be a backlog and
this creates uncertainties.
Customs and port services. The UNTAET Border Control has official entry/exit
places with a Customs service only at the Dili port, and the Carabela port near
Baucau. Shipments from Australia are pre-inspected at Australian ports, and
enter Dili without another inspection. The road border to West Timor reportedly
was opened in March. Quarantine inspections apply,
for instance, any imported timber found infested would be destroyed. East Timor
will have to increase standards of exports so that they can pass
international quarantine requirements.
Minimum wage. UNTAET is discussing a minimum wage for East Timor, and UNDP
is conducting a cost of living survey towards proposing a minimum wage level.
Currently it is $5 per day, based on the high cost of living in Dili.
But, it is expected that wages will decrease with economic recovery, if
determined by the market: as prices come down, wages can come down too. An
official mandate on minimum wages would make it more
difficult to reduce wages later. In nearby countries the daily rate for
unskilled labor is about $1 in rural areas and $2 in the urban areas, prices in these
being higher and thus wages needing to be higher just to provide the same
purchasing power as in rural areas. With a 5:1-2 international ratio of labor
costs, East Timor would not be competitive unless its exports are of a type that can
compete with products from countries with higher income levels and wages. Even
local primary products for 1 cal consumption may not be competitive with imports.
And East Timor would notave the choice of devaluing, to adjust local prices
to international prices, as it has adopted the US dollar as currency. With
- 4 -



recovery, wages would decrease.It is recommended that no minimum wage be set as it
could turn into fostering ontinued massive unemployment, inflation, and dualism
in the economy, with a small modern formal sector, highly paid, and a large
informal sector atsubsistence level.
Aid investment projects and expenditures. The grants for IDA's Community
Empowerment and Local Governance Project (CEP) and for
this project are to disburse beginning in April.
Private sector business and funding. The proposed project is intended
toassist in this area.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project are to help restart economic activities viable
in the private sector, through lending on commercial terms, and to promote
sustainable employment, in urban areas; to prepare complementary follow on
programs; and to restore essential elements of a land and property
administration system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There is limited capacity in East Timor itself to restart quickly the
process of economic recovery, and few foreign private
sector entrepreneurs would assist in this post-conflict situation with risk
capital, until some other activity has started. Knowing this,
the international community has pledged assistance and funds, and IDA agreed
to prepare projects deemed priority in selected sectors, drawing on its staff pool and
earlier knowledge of the region. IDA may also involve more East Timorese in
program preparation and implementation than other agencies would involve.
The number of loans is expected to be relatively low and only one bank is
involved. Thus, monitoring by IDA can be quite easy, fast and useful.
Therefore, it is intended to review progress 3 months after implementation
start, by the end of July 2000, to observe closely the initial progress and
determine changes, if any, needed in the loan program. The preparation of new
programs under the project should also be complete by July 2000. The PMU is
also to provide a monitoring report by end of October 2000 and 2001, for a
review with IDA by the end of November 2000 and 2001.
4. Description
The project has 3 components:
1. Small loans for private businesses. A credit line of $4 million for
loans in dollars, from $500 up to $50,000 each, to East Timorese
businessmen/women. Initial equal sub-allocations have been made by district
(there are 13 districts), as otherwise Dili might absorb the funds first, but
any uncommitted sub-allocation by end of July 2000, may be reallocated. It is
expected that disbursements for loans can start by end of April 2000. Below is
a summary, and details are in Annex 2.
Loans. Individuals, groups or firms can apply for a loan (importers,
traders, manufacturers, service providers; women and men with equal
opportunity). Loans are to be repaid in full in up to 36 months including up
to 3 months of grace period, in equal installments. A commercial interest of
- 5 -



10t per year applies (that results in about lt per month with
capitalization), both to select the better business proposals and to not
crowd out lending by private banks. Priority uses of loans are expected to
be, though not limited to, restocking by traders (mostly imports); purchases
of inputs, imported or local, by manufacturers or groups; minibuses (10-12
passenger capacity); trucks (5-10 ton capacity); business centers;
rehabilitation of small hotels/guest houses/guest rooms equipment purchases;
other small businesses.
Information dissemination. Initially a notice will be posted at the main
church and administrative buildings of the district capitals. BNU East
Timorese staff and facilitators employed as part of the project preparation
activities are to go in teams to all district capitals, first to inform about
the program, so that the opportunity and eligibility criteria are transparent
to all, and to provide application forms and brochures; in a second round,
the teams will discuss business proposals and will help fill out the
application forms. Applications will be received at the administrative
district capital buildings or another location designated as an BNU temporary
office; applicants will receive a receipt showing the number of the
application, as applications will be reviewed in the sequence they were
presented.
Intermediation. The Banco Nacional Ultramarino (BNU) will receive an
initial payment to defray start up costs. Thereafter, BNU will provide the
management of the loans based on a service fee, an initial 1.5t of the amount
of loans approved and 9.5w from loan repayments. BNU will do the loan
administration at its office, in Dili, and deal with borrowers and repayments
also at part time outlets at each district, possibly the District
administration building or at the main church. The Grant Special Account
will be in BNU. While funds repaid by BNU borrowers will be made available
for new loans, at some time repayments will be returned to the Government,
that is the recipient of the project Grant. It is foreseen that at the time
of project completion, UNTAET or its successor, will agree with BNU about the
disposition of the funds available from this component.
2. Strengthening land and property administration. The uncertainty and lack
of public confidence which characterizes the land property environment in East
Timor, and conflicting claims on land, is leading to the risk of social
disruption and constraining the urgently needed re-establishment of businesses
and public services. UNCHS (Habitat) is to provide and manage technical
assistance to strengthen the service delivery of UNTAET's Land and Property
Commission, in the areas of land registration, cadastral survey and mapping, and
land law, and for the review by the same Commission, of policies relating to
land rights adjudication and allocation of public and abandoned property. The
assistance is designed to prepare the basis for the development of an East
Timorese institutional capacity in land administration. The lump sum cost is
$265,750.
3. Technical assistance. Consultant services will be engaged to strengthen
the Project Management Unit and to undertake preparation of 3 programs expected
to be financed under another grant/tranche but that may be started under this
project (grants to communities and training for businesses) but could not be
prepared for this tranche given the short (2-month) preparation period. This
component also covers the agreed initial fixed costs of the commercial bank that
is to intermediate, administer and implement the loan component and disburse for
- 6 -



other components, and funding to cover the cost of
banking facilitators hired for a short term to assist the bank's longer term
staff during the peak work period. The TA component has an allocation of
$390,000.
Project management unit. A PMU will interface with BNU, manage contracts
for consultant services and submit related payment requests to BNU, have the
overall reporting responsibility, and oversee the 3 program preparation
efforts. The PMU is to have a manager, an environmental expert "on call,"
and other experts (primarily East Timorese) as may be found necessary.
Funding is also available for ad-hoc consultants to be hired by the PMU, such
as to advise transporters on forming cooperatives; for assistance to East
Timorese groups or individuals that may want to explore the formation of an
investment corporation, or to make a larger private sector investments,
though additional bilateral funding may be sought for foreign experts.
UNTAET is seconding two junior staff to work in the PMU and is expected to
provide assistance with contracting procedures and a chief financial officer.
The PMU could be located within UNTAET's building, given its small size, its
need for "procedural" support from UNTAET, and that an UNTAET high level
staff is designated as the liaison person with IDA for the project. If the
PMU is located elsewhere it will incur additional support costs that would
need to be covered under the project. Estimated cost including allowances
for ad-hoc experts: $70,000.
Start up costs of BNU. BNU East Timor needs to set up facilities and
acquire transportation means (additional to those for its normal operations)
to carry out the loan component of the project. BNU has started procuring
the items it needs for dissemination activities in the district capitals
beginning April 1. An office and other facilities are available for the loan
program staff, most of whom are already on board. BNU also needs to set up
small facilities in district capitals to handle the business during weekly
visits by BNU staff to receive loan applications or repayments. As of May 1,
BNU is also hiring staff (under short-term contracts) to assist in the
busystart-up period. Allowances for these up-front expenditures are $75,000 for
facilities in Dili, $10,000 for facilities in other districts, and $15,000
for short term staff. The total is thus $100,000.
Preparation and carrying out of training programs for business. Borrowers
are to be given training in accounting. More broadly, a study will be
undertaken of the training needs as expressed by businessmen and of earlier
training programs now suspended but that could be restarted through an
initial funding, to determine a simple training program that could also be
started under the project (simple business practices, computer skills,
dealing with new regulations including quarantine requirements, business
English, etc.). Programs will endeavor to train East Timorese trainers.
istance learning methods may be considered. The goal is to tap into
existing knowledge bases, such as that of ILO already present in East Timor,
similar programs ongoing in Brazil, and others to take advantage of material
available in the Portuguese language; it is also the intention to access
other funding sources, such as bilateral aid, as expressions of interest have
been received from them. Estimated cost: $110,000.
Preparation of a program for grants to urban communities, in support of
business. Most grant financing for East Timor seems destined for rural areas.
But urban areas have more open unemployment and need employment programs. It
- 7 -



is thus desired to prepare grant program(s) for the district capitals, urban
communities, to provide public works, amenities or services with public
benefit (particularly in support of business needs) but that are unable to
recover costs fully or partially. Such activities would be linked to a
simple urban planning exercise within each city /town, to encourage public
discussion of the future shape of that town and a better determination of
where public facilities should be located, such as a park/plaza, new market,
cultural center, business center, chamber of commerce, trucking or bus
terminal, etc., and which are the priorities for the use of the grant funds.
Operations plans would be required. The program would be prepared by East
Timorese, with a minimum of foreign consultants. A pilot would be carried
out in 2-3 towns. Estimated cost: $110,000.
4. An amount of $194,250 has been left unallocated, that can be used for
either the loan or the TA components, though not for the UNCHS land
administration component.
Disbursements.   All the components will be funded 100t from the grant/TFET.
Because speed is of the essence, the aim is to start disbursements to loan
borrowers under the first component, by April 20. BNU is pre-financing the
up-front costs, in order to not delay project implementation start. A Special
Account will be opened with $700,000 at the BNU. BNU will be entrusted all
disbursements for the project, that is, for loans and services. A first
intensive implementation review would take place 3 months after the project
start.
Loans
Support to Land and Property Administration
Consultant Services
Unallocated
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                0
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING                         4.85
Total Project Cost                        4.85
6. Implementation
The two main institutions involved are BNU and UNTAET/PMU.
BNU is key in the implementation of the loan program. BNU will:
1. establish/have capacity to screen and evaluate the loan applications, and
decide which ones are funded. Even if it has no own capital at risk, BNU
is to follow commercial judgment and standard commercial bank practices,
and rules and criteria as defined in its Project Manual. It will provide
adequate office capacity and facilities at Dili and as needed at district
capitals, possibly at the District Administration buildings or at another
location, and transportation means.
2. provide loans from $500 to $50,000; at 109 interest; with a grace period
of up to 3 months if one is agreed, in which case interest is capitalized;
and a maximum repayment period of 36 months (including any grace months)
- 8 -



though the repayment period should be as short as feasible and no loan
repayment should be due after August 31, 2003. BNU will provide current
accounts at no cost to borrowers, and will also pay directly foreign
suppliers if needed, without money transfer fees. BNU will have temporary
offices and staff every week at each district capital, to receive loan
applications, to post on public boards the loan numbers approved, not
approved, and being considered; to provide the loan funds to borrowers and
receive repayments. The initial allocation for each district is $307,700;
funds uncommitted after 3 months may be used in another district with
outstanding loan applications.
3. BNU is to use the loan repayments and interest payments from borrowers,
to provide additional loans until the scheduled end of the project,
December 31, 2001. However, in the event that the average collection of
loan and interest payments in any calendar month is (i) less than 80t of
the amounts due that month under the terms of the loan agreements, UNTAET
and BNU would meet within 10 days of the end of the month, to discuss the
situation and determine an appropriate course of action; and (ii) 60t or
less of the amounts due, BNU will suspend approving new loans until a
course of action, acceptable to IDA, to remedy the situation is agreed
between UNTAET and BNU.
In addition, BNU will:
4. manage the Special Account on behalf of UNTAET, and disburse also for TA
services approved by IDA and the PMU.
5. provide reports and statements of the operations under the loan program,
to the Project Management Unit (representing UNTAET) in Dili, and to IDA:
monthly succinct tables; quarterly reports; annual reports (the month of
the annual report, no monthly or quarterly report is needed). Essential
content of the reporting system was agreed at appraisal (Annex 6). It
will also provide reports on disbursements for TA contracts.
6. allow an independent auditor to review the project accounts each year;
the audits need to be available within 6 months after the end of the
fiscal year. It will also allow IDA staff to review progress during
supervision missions. BNU is audited by a reputable international audit
firm that is acceptable to IDA; the audit by this firm, provided that it
also provides more detailed audits of the loans under the project, would
be acceptable.
PMU. A Project Management Unit is to be established, essentially to manage
the consultant services to be engaged under the project. It would also have
"on-call" an environmental expert in case a loan proposal submitted to BNU is
deemed to require review by such an expert. Establishment by UNTAET of a PMU
including identification of the leader, a staffing plan and a budget, and a
final financial management action plan proposal by UNTAET, are 2 conditions of
effectiveness of the Grant. To the extent that BNU handles the SA, the PMU may
nnot need to produce separate financial statements for the project.
The PMU will draft the terms of reference for the preparation of the
training and grant programs, and will handle the procurement process of the
required consultants to undertake the preparations.
-9-



7. Sustainability
The program is proposed as part of the overall East Timor reconstruction
effort. It is planned for a short implementation period, some 2 years; although
the Grant disbursements are expected to be faster than scheduled, and the period
for revolving of funds is expected to go beyond the scheduled project
"completion" date (when the Grant funds will have been disbursed, the Grant
closes). The services developed should remain sustainable thereafter on a
commercial basis; that is a reason why loans are of a commercial type (even if
BNU is not taking capital risks). BNU may want to lend its own funds after the
project funds are exhausted and the public is used to the commercial terms; in
fact, BNU has the potential of acquiring a customer base through the project.
If at a project review it is judged that the economy received sufficient
impetus, by this or other means, and that continued loans under the project
could crowd out private capital, then no further loans would need to be
provided. However, in a growth scenario capital will be in much demand while
foreign investors are unlikely to focus on small loans; their funds could be
channeled into larger ventures. Grants may be justified even if further loans
are not; or vice versa, depending on other programs and progress.
Sustainability of the need for the project is more likely if the recovery is not
successful-- sustainable results would lead to a non-sustained program.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Speed is essential to help people in post-conflict situations. Private
sector East Timorese could be consulted more than they have been, but as a
feasible commercial process was identified, it was then also feasible to simply
start with such normal process, and let the market decide what it wants, that is
better anyway for sustainability. That is, the project has been kept simple and
easy, and the identification to negotiations time very short -- about 2 months
(February 1 to March 30, 2000).
Relying on the national decision makers increases the chances of successful
implementation. East Timorese persons were involved from the beginning in
defining the project concept, some generously assisting at no cost. Information
already collected by other experts was perused and data collection not
duplicated. The only expatriates involved so far in this project preparation are
the World Bank staff, BNU's Portuguese manager, and the UNTAET counterparts.
The preparation cost has thus been kept very low; involving more persons and
more time in preparation has quickly decreasing returns. The project itself
allows for hiring expertise if private demand develops for it (e.g. for setting
up transport cooperatives, for international experts to advise on more complex
matters).
Relying on beneficiaries to decide their priorities also increases the
chances of success of the project. Project experience elsewhere in the region
tells that it is feasible to rely on even poor and illiterate persons to have
good business judgment and to repay loans when the right incentive and framework
are in place. It is also expected that only the best proposals will be funded
and this enhances the success prospects. The project no longer comprises a
grant component; some persons felt that grants could have lessened borrowers'
sense of obligation to repay.
Transparency and social interest and pressure in seeing that loans are
repaid and other persons given the opportunity to borrow, because funds are
- 10 -



scarce, come into play. The initial socialization will provide public
information on "dos and don'ts," including that women shall have equal
opportunity to borrow provided their proposal is good. BNU has been given
incentives to perform its role for the project.
Bosnia-Herzegovina had 16 projects approved in one year (1996), also funded
by a multi-donor group after the crisis. One of the first projects was an
Emergency Recovery Project that included lines of credit for small and medium
sized enterprises and an emergency Social Fund. OED's review was favorable.
For East Timor, the example of various small projects instead of fewer larger
ones is followed, as the grant funding for the project may be in the 2 tranches,
the second tranche including more or different components.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Pre crisis East Timor was one of
the poorest provinces of Indonesia, based on the standard income-based poverty
line. Poverty has greatly increased with the loss of assets, houses and
businesses; now most of the population is poor.
The urban population is the project target. It is expected that borrowers are
mostly from the district capitals; this is by design, as rural communities are
covered under the CEP. However, the rural population will benefit as well, as
it will have better trade prospects and lower service costs. The initial equal
sub-allocations by district of the grant allocation for loans will produce more
widespread benefits and it is expected, will help more poor business people as
generally businesses in the capital are better off and might capture all the
loan funds if there was no limit. Refugees abroad and internal migration make
it difficult to pinpoint the total and urban population sizes (pre crisis
population was about 850,000, with some 30t in urban areas, the largest being
Dili); currently there may be 200,000 in urban areas.
The initial number of borrowers will depend on the loan sizes, perhaps no
more than 300; loanrepayments will be used to provide new loans, so that
the total number of borrowers will be higher. The project loan component
should try to reach many beneficiaries rather than a few, but it is not known
how demand will turn out, since repayment conditions are stringent in order to
also promote sustainable banking lending.
Providing capital to enable entrepreneurs to restart economic activities has a
high pay-off in a post conflict situation. The project aims at a quick start,
to provide some services and goods, and enable benefits from other private
sector investments and activities that may follow. In the case of trucks and
buses, for instance, benefits may be the difference between lack and
availability of motorized transport; the alternative may be transport by horse,
cycles or on foot. Business centers may help establish contacts for importers,
exporters and domestic traders; help with computerized document processing, etc.
at an affordable cost, while minimizing the numbers of office equipment to be
bought. Guest houses and small hotel redevelopment will provide facilities, now
practically non-existing, for traders and experts, while allowing East Timorese
families rather than a potential internationally owned hotel, to capture the
income from the services. Small enterprises are more labor intensive and have
large multiplier effects in informal sectors, so it is hoped that they can
capture a good share of the funds available even though a few larger loans would
require fewer reviews and repayment could be considered less risky.
The loan repayments shall be used for new loans; it was estimated, with an
average repayment period of 2 years and 80t collection, that by the end of the
- 11 -



project, $2 million may have been re-lent, for a total of $6 million in loans.
The financial returns to borrowers is expected to be no less than 15t, and
larger to the economy through indirect benefits. Surely some businesses will
fail and be unable to repay the loans; but in the case of goods purchases, the
goods may still produce benefits for a new owner and in the case of services,
the funds spent may have funded labor services and had indirect benefits.
Ultimately, a future East Timor Government shall own the funds (if the loan
repayment rate is 80w, some $3.4 million); given that any new Government will
have limited revenues, having such funding will facilitate priority
expenditures.
Another benefit of the project is that it helps restart commercial banking
lending and should facilitate the provision of other banking services, not only
in Dili but in the district capitals; by the project financing the start up
costs and providing capital, it is expected that private banking can become
sustainable in a near future. Currently no private bank is willing to use its
own capital in East Timor as perceived risks are too high.
The benefits from the preparation studies under the project will be the
institutional capacity they help create, by enabling the hiring of East Timorese
consultants, and the readiness of useful new programs that could start
implementation later in calendar 2000, with design appropriate to the East Timor
culture and implementation by East Timorese. The target population would
continue to be that in district capitals.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Although the specific types of investments to be financed
with loans are uncertain, their size will be limited by the relatively low loan
ceiling. Most are unlikely to have significant environmental impacts. Public
transport vehicles (buses and trucks) would only have to meet standard emission
limits and should also comply with the usual safety standards (vehicles would
have to be relatively new or new). Any new or renovated buildings, such as guest
houses should have adequate provisions for sanitation and wastewater disposal,
such as septic tanks, soak-aways and drainage around the buildings; the building
code applies. The BNU staff would pass on to the PMU the types of proposals
pre-identified as having a potential environmental impact; the PMU is to engage
an environmental consultant to be "on call" to assist with the necessary review,
mitigation and monitoring measures.
The Project Manual will contain environmental principles to guide project
implementation.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
URL: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Task Manager
Desiree Green
- 12 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-2038
Fax:         (202) 614-0636
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 21, 2000.
- 13 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID).
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 14 -



