Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20206 TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.85 million
TO EAST TIMOR
FOR A
SMALL ENTERPRISES PROJECT
April 17, 2000
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = US dollar
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 Asian Development Bank
AU$                 Australian dollar
BNU                 Banco Nacional Ultramarino
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEP                 Community Empowerment and Local Govemance Project
CNRT          Comite Nacional da Resistencia Timorense
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
NGO                 Nongovernmental organization
Pertamina     Indonesian fuel company
Rp            Indonesian rupiah
TFET                Trust Fund for East Timor
UN            United Nations
UNCHS         UN Center for Human Settlements (Habitat)
UNDP          UN Development Programme
UNTAET        UN Transitional Administration in East Timor
USAID         US Agency for International Development
Vice President: Jemal ud-din Kassum
Country Director: Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director: Javed Hamid
Task Team Leader: Frida Johansen



EAST TIMOR
SMALL ENTERPRISES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A.   Project Development Objective
1.              Project development objective and key performance indicators ............................ ........  2
B.   Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .................... 2
2.              Main  sector issues and Govemment strategy .........................................................    2
3.              Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices .................................   5
C.   Project Description Summary
1.              Project Components ..........................................................                                                                      6
2.              Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by  the project ......................................   8
3.              Benefits and target population .........................................................                                                           9
4.              Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .......................................................   10
D.   Project Rationale
1.              Project altematives considered  and reasons for rejection ............................................    11
2.              Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies ...................  11
3.              Lessons leamed  and reflected  in proposed project design ...........................................   13
4.              Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................                                            ................    13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .13
E.   Summary Project Analysis
1.              Economic ......................................................................                                                                     14
2.              Financial .....................................................................                                                                     15
3.              Technical ......................................................................                                                                    16
4.              Institutional ......................................................................                                                                16
5.              Environmental ......................................................................                                                                17
6.              Social .....................................................................                                                                        17
7.              Safeguard Policies ......................................................................                                                           18
F.   Sustainability and Risks
1.              Sustainability .....................................................................                                                               18
2.              Critical risks .....................................................................                                                                18
3.              Possible controversial aspects ......................................................................                                               19
G.  Main Conditions
1.              Effectiveness Condition .....................................................................                                                      20
2.              Other .....................................................................                                                                        20
H.        Readiness for implementation .....................................................................                                                       20
I.        Compliance with  Bank  Policies .....................................................................                                                    20



Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary ...................................................                                                               21
Annex 2:   Project Description ...................................................                                                                  23
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs ..................................................                                                               27
Annex 4:   Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis-N/A
Annex 5:          Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities .......................................   28
Annex 6:          Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................                                      30
Annex 7:   Project Processing Schedule ..................................................                                                           37
Annex 8:   Documents in the File ..................................................                                                                  39
Annex 9:   BNU Loan Application Form ...................................................                                                            40
Annex 10: Example of a Generic Environmental Review (ER) Checklist .46
Map No. IBRD 30860



EAST TIMOR
Small Enterprises Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASPS
Date: April 17, 2000                                Team Leader: Frida Johansen
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland             Sector Manager/Director: Javed Hamid
Project ID: P070283                                 Sector(s): IL - Small Scale Enterprise
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Grant       Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.85 first tranche, (a 5.0 second tranche is planned)
Financing Plan:    Source                                       Local         Foreign          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       0.00           0.00            0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                               0.00            4.85           4.85
Total:                                                                0.00           4.85           4.85
Borrower: RECIPIENT: UNTAET
Responsible agency:
Banco Nacional Ultramarino
Address: Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Vasco Carrascalao da Silva
Tel:                  Fax:                 Email: bnu.timor@arafura.net.au
Other Agency(ies):
Project Management Unilt
Address: UNTAET, Dili
Contact Person: Roxana Ghiciu and Carolina Larriera
Tel:                 Fax:                 Email: Larriera@UN.org
Estimated disburs ements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY           2()00        2001         2002 |
Annual  =      0.7          4.1         0.1=
Cumulative        0.7          4.8         4.8
Project implementation period: 04/20/00 - 12/31/01
Expected effectiveness date: 04/20/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2002
OCS PAD Fom, Ibv M..^, 2mo0



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD         2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The objectives of the project are to help restart economic activities viable in the private sector, through lending
on commercial terms, and to promote sustainable employment, in urban areas; to prepare complementary follow on
programs; and to restore essential elements of a land and property administration system.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The indicators, shown in Annex 1 in more detail, relate to the following:
1.    number of loans approved and disbursements
2.    repayments by borrowers
3.     number of jobs and sustainable businesses created
4.     direct benefits and retums to the businesses
5.    studies/program preparation satisfactorily completed
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
IDA's Transitional Assistance Strategy (TAS) for East Timor is being drafted, following from the work of the
Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) to East Timor in October 1999, led by IDA. The TAS' intended primary goals are
summarized below:
1.    building strong democratic govemance institutions; IDA's support in this area will focus on local
institutions;
2.    reinforcing social cohesion; IDA's support in this area will focus on interim safety nets and sustainable
job creation, and on fostering the involvement of civil society organizations in consultative planning,
implementation and monitoring processes;
3.     maximizing long-run economic benefits from extemally funded reconstruction activities; IDA will focus
on quality reconstruction in the immediate post-crisis period with emphasis on school and health
infrastructure needs. IDA will liaise with other agencies such as ADB, that focuses on other public
infrastructure subsectors;
4.     minimizing distortions caused by the presence of a large number of expatriates related to intemational
aid; IDA will focus on rural areas and urban centers outside Dili, the capital, to counteract the migration
attracted to Dili by the presence there of the international personnel and expenditures.
The project is part of IDA's immediate support for the goals under 2. and 4. above, in particular, the creation of
sustainable jobs in district capitals. The project expects to help restart economic activities in the private sector through
small loans to entrepreneurs, and to prepare further programs in support of the same goal, for training of
businessmen/women. The project also includes a study on improving land and property administration. Loan
repayments will be a resource for a future East Timor Govemment.
Additional Grants are envisaged in the future to finance the continuation of the programs if progress then
provides justification.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Issues:
While activity is picking up, with a noticeable difference in level of activity in Dili from February to March, for
example, the situation continues to be very difficult for East Timorese.
Almost no jobs or goods. Urban residents find it hard to get back on track, as there is little demand for their
services; paid jobs are mainly the few provided by UNTAET or a spill-over. Most people in Dili are willing to work



3            East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
on anything for Rp25,000--30,000 ($3-5) per day; in rural areas, Rpl0,000 per day. Lack of funds also means that
houses destroyed are not being rehabilitated, though some assistance for shelter is materializing. Because of the
destruction of all businesses in the aftermath of the popular consultation results, imported goods are scarce and
expensive, though some prices are gradually returning to more normal levels. Some owners are starting to rebuild
shops with "unburied' savings or repatriated funds.
Few services. Urban utilities and public services are grossly inadequate. Transport services are scant, mostly
UNTAET's, but increasing numbers of private trucks and public passenger transport vehicles can be seen. Private
sector support services available:
Airlines. Services are expanding; Air North operates daily the Darwin (Australia)-Dili route, Merpati operates
flights Kuparig (Indonesia)-Dili and Denpasar (Indonesia)-Dili. Few East Timorese can afford air travel. Free UN
flights operate between Dili and Darwin, Dili and Oecussi (enclaved in West Timor) and some other destinations, but
are available only for UN related travelers.
Shipping. Several shipping companies are active, mostly from Darwin but also from Surabaya, and queuing
seems to be starting at Dili at least. It is reported to take up to 3 weeks, from loading at one port to complete unloading
at the other. The administration of ports, initially military, has been handed over to UNTAET and is under Australian
management.
Banking. No banks operated in East lTimor after the popular consultations. Early 2000, the Banco Nacional
Ultramarino (BNU, with headquarters in Portugal, a government owned commercial bank) opened an office in Dili,
and it provides services for foreign exchange, deposits, payment of pensions, payrolls and disbursements of Portugal's
humanitarian aid; and payments on behalf of UNTAET outside Dili. It has capability for electronic transfers;
computer equipment of international standards (AS400) and better electronic connections are on the way. BNU intends
to open a branch in Baucau, refurbish its old building in Dili, and expand services as soon as the legal procedures are
clear. Westpac (Australia) has a small outlet in Dili open 3 days per week, dealing in foreign exchange. Westpac
provides the banking service to UNTAET, mainly from Darwin. It is presumed that another bank will open for
business soon.
Public utilities. Postal and telephone services (other than cell phones) are generally not available. At least in
Dili, some electricity and water supply are available (at no cost until an administration reestablishes a, payment system)
and streets are in good condition. Interurban roads are in poor condition and rapidly deteriorating further, particularly
under heavy military equipment use and no maintenance. Pertamina continues to supply fuel, at prices now close to
Indonesia's. General garbage goes uncollected (UNTAET has an Australian company to collect UNTAET's generated
garbage).
Decreasing humani'tarian needs. Initial international aid was mostly directed to humanitarian needs, food and
basic need slapplies and peace keeping, that helped restore order and a sense of safety. Most international programs
still focus on welfare programs. However, pledges for "humanitarian" needs could now be reduced; rural production
should provide as much food as it can; farmer prices should not be depressed by having to compete with free food
distributions. Food aid may still be justified in targeted areas, but a return to market processes is warranted especially
as crops are expected to be good. Health, schooling and peace keeping services will continue to need budget support.
Short term pledges for humanitarian aid total $126 million, while $146 million has been pledged for a Trust Fund for
East Timor (TFET) managed by IDA for medium term development projects. The $4.85 million grant proposed for
this project would come from the TFET. In addition, UNTAET has a budget pledge of $31.5 million; while the UN
has a budget of some $700 million per year for East Timor activities, that includes $250 million for peace keeping.
Preparing for an industrial/service economy. For the medium and longer term, if East Timor is to achieve its
objectives of higher wages, it needs to develop an industrial and service economy, with high value added by labor, a
relatively high capital/labor ratio. The land is of relatively low productivity; even if new public investments in
irrigation are made, water being the constraint, incomes from agriculture may remain relatively low. The urban areas
need to be able to absorb increasing numbers of workers. Rural migrants normally enter informal, marginal, service
sectors at low wages in urban areas; in the post conflict situation, urbanization is accelerating and the establishment of
slums has tc be avoided. East Timor needs to attract private capital to increase the productivity of its work force.
Available skills are difficult to access, but workers can gradually expand in numbers and skills in line with demand.
Priority: public infrastructure. TFET funds should be invested in the public priorities, but as little as needed to
make the rest of each investment or operation attractive to private commercial ventures where this is financially



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD           4
feasible. This would provide leverage to available public funds. Ports and revenue earning utilities providing power,
water supplies, etc. may attract foreign private sector interests that may invest in East Timor and/or at least provide
efficient services under contract. Telecommunication services should be profitable enough to be fully privately funded.
Still, much public infrastructure will need 100% public funding (e.g. roads, or a sewerage system, that offer few cost
recovery possibilities). The public investments should be made as soon as possible. For instance, road construction
priority projects should be identified, designed, costed and tendered based on intemational standards. This would
reduce the length of time during which continued "emergency works" have to be done, and that can only have a short
life and thus no long term benefit.
Priority: frameworks. To attract private capital and modem facilities to East Timor, and reduce investor risks,
"frameworks" also need to be developed as soon as possible to restore normalcy: laws--necessary legislation should be
developed and the judiciary system should function independently and impartially, with strict penalties for any illegal
practice; administration--public administration should require only a minimum of licenses, simple processes with a
"one-stop" office; a civil service to be kept at a minimum size. Decision making would be decentralized to the level
that is best involved to reduce costs to the public and the private sector and enhance accountability and transparency.
Local traditional institutions should be involved wherever this is more efficient; peace and order must be preserved.
Of course, introducing new systems takes longer than just drafting the laws. UNTAET provides the interim
administration, and will work with East Timorese nationals for them to learn on the job.
Priority: private sector businesses and capital. The sooner basic public facilities are built, business infrastructure
support is right, or at least improvements have started, the sooner foreign private investment will come. East Timorese
living abroad for many years are interested in investing in East Timor as soon as the risk is reduced; in particular they
are interested in participating in the reconstruction effort and developing new businesses that later would be able to
export competitively. But also, small East Timorese businesses need working capital to restart activities, if this is to
take place relatively quickly in a widespread manner.
Strategy:
UNTAET is entrusted with the development of East Timor frameworks. Based on the 1999 Multidonor
consultative meeting, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and IDA have divided the areas of responsibility under the
trust fund as follows: ADB has been entrusted with reviewing infrastructure needs and providing remedial assistance
in that sector; IDA has been entrusted assistance to the private and social sectors and to rebuilding local institutions (up
to sub-district level). Some examples of progress in the 3 priority areas are given below.
Framework development. By the end of March 2000, UNTAET has issued 13 regulations dealing with banking,
a central payment office, business registration, legal tender, a public service commission and other matters. As lack of
frameworks can be an impediment to restarting private business, impediment as binding as lack of funds, below is an
overview of progress relevant to this project:
Duties. A simple system is adopted: 5% import duty on all goods plus a lump sum for some luxury and other
goods; a 5% income tax; a 5% sales tax; and a 5% presumptive tax on coffee exports. The levies were effective in
March.
Register of business. Registration was started in December 1999. Some 2500 registration application forms and
350 certificates were issued by end March. The register is manual (on paper forms) and will be difficult to use until it
is computerized. The fee is $10 for an individual or group and $100 for a larger legal entity. A $500 penalty applies
for infractions.
East Timorese travel abroad. The UN in New York is discussing the matter of passports for East Timorese and
it is UNTAET's intention to provide passports as soon as possible (at cost). Currently East Timorese are ailowed to
pass the border for emergencies only, with a temporary (3 month) travel permit at no cost. Australia accepts East
Timorese travel permits and other countries are starting to accept them as well. In the meantime for foreign
businesses, East Timorese seem to rely on formerly established commercial and banking connections abroad, and on
cell phones. Foreigners, including expatriate East Timorese with a foreign passport, the more likely to invest, can enter
and exit freely.
Property and land registration. Abandoned property is under UNTAET administration currently; UNTAET can
assign/permit use of abandoned buildings. However, this does not preclude future claims by earlier private owners
coming back. UNTAET provides titles to owners; there is reported to be a backlog and this creates uncertainties.



5           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Customs andport services. The UNTAET Border Control has official entry/exit places with a Customs service
only at the Dili port, and the Carabela port near Baucau. Shipments from Australia are preinspected at Australian ports,
and enter Dili without another inspection. The road border to West Timor reportedly was opened in March.
Quarantine inspections apply, for instance any imported timber found infested in any way would be destroyed. East
Timor will have to increase standards of exports so that they can pass international quarantine requirements.
Minimum wage. UJNTAET is discussing a minimum wage for East Timor, and UJNDP is conducting a cost of
living survey towards proposing a minimum wage level. Currently it is $5 per day, based on the high cost of living in
Dili. But, it is expected that wages will decrease with economic recovery, if determined by the market: as prices come
down, wages can come down too. An official mandate on minimum wages would make it more difficult to reduce
wages later. In nearby countries the daily rate for unskilled labor is about $1 in rural areas and $2 in the urban areas,
prices in these being higher and thus wages needing to be higher just to provide the same purchasing power as in rural
areas. With a 5:1-2 international ratio of labor costs, East Timor would not be competitive unless its exports are of a
type that can compete with products from countries with higher income levels and wages. Even local primary products
for local consumption may not be competitive with imports. And East Timor would not have the choice of devaluing,
to adjust local prices to international prices, as it has adopted the US dollar as currency. With recovery, wages would
decrease. It is recommended that no minimum wage be set as it could turn into fostering continued massive
unemployment, inflation, and dualism in the economy, with a small modern formal sector, highly paid, and a large
informal sector at subsistence level.
Aid investmentprojects and expenditures. The grants for IDA's Community Empowerment and Local
Governance Project (CEP) and for this project are to disburse beginning in April. Other projects are mentioned in
Section D. 2.
Private sector business andfunding. The proposed project is intended to assist in this area.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues
Job creation. The project endeavors to jump start the private sector, by providing capital directly to private
sector entrepreneurs, who will provide jobs, and goods, and reduce poverty in urban areas.
Service and goods provision. Services and goods can develop with project financing. Private bank services,
transport services and other will develop more variety and at more locations than without the project.
Resolution of 'framework" constraints to private sector business development. Issues identified were mentioned
above.
Strategic Choices
Quick implementation start. Only immediate priorities, with widespread beneficiaries, benefits that make them
commercially viable and simple procedures that would make the investments feasible in the very short term, were
identified for this project. Other programs, more oriented to the poorest population segments, will be funded under a
second tranche/grant after their preparation will have been completed, in about three months from now, or other
programs. A. review meeting 6 months after Grant effectiveness, or earlier if the funds have been committed, will
decide on additional funding for the loan program.
The following components were considered but not included in the project:
Project allocation for subgrants. Initially an allocation was made for grants to urban communities. But, this
component was dropped because IDA's Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project ($21.5 million)
provides grants and other agencies also provide funding for grants (e.g. USAID has $12 million to spend in the short
term). As no other program provides loans to small businesses, this project focuses on loans.
House rehabilitation. Initially private house rehabilitation was to be eligible under project loans, because
construction activities tend to have a high multiplier effect in job creation. However, because of the high expected
demand for business loans and the existence of the humanitarian aid shelter program, house rehabilitation is no longer
included.



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD           6
New bank CNRT wished the project help establish a commercial East Timorese bank to provide the full range of
services. But, developing a domestic commercial/private bank requires quite some time. It also requires development
of a "regulator"; UNTAET has passed banking regulations and expects them to be functional within a year. East
Timorese businessmen need access to a bank that can operate internationally or at least domestically, provide checking
accounts, saving accounts, loans, etc. that currently are not available. The main benefit of a bank from a client's point
of view is quality service at lowest cost, not the ownership of the bank's capital. Foreign banks can provide additional
capital and incur the cost of opening branches, given that they stand to gain from the business and do not need (and
should not receive) subsidies. Thus, the project pursues development of services by international banks, and preparing
the way to establish/revive domestic microcredit instituLtions, that can later develop broader service ranges. East
Timorese with capital to invest could in the meantime form an investment corporation, that could also later broaden its
business.
Loan sizes. Loans under the project start at $500, up to $50,000. Initially the project was to provide loans also
for partial funding of business proposals beyond US$ 100,000 but given the small Grant amount, and that larger
investors are likely to have access to other funding sources, large loans/proposals were excluded. Initially also the
project was to provide microcredit; the microcredit programs that operated pre-conflict no longer operate. Thcre is
much demand for smaller loans, microcredit, starting from maybe as little as $1 00--that is a large amount for vendors,
weavers, brick makers and other informal businesses. However, other agencies, in particular ADB, intend to fill the
gap. Thus microcredit was also excluded from this project.
Funding. Project components are funded 100% from the Grant (for goods and services to be bought by the
borrowers, as they provide business capital; and for consultant services). All funds are on a grant basis to the
Government, and the Govemment is to recover the loan repayments.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project has 3 components:
1. small loans for private businesses. A credit line of $4 million for loans in dollars, from $500 up to $50,000 each,
to East Timorese businessmen/women. Initial equal suballocations have been made by district (there are 13 districts),
as otherwise Dili might absorb the funds first, but any uncommitted suballocation by end of July 2000, may be
reallocated. It is expected that disbursements for loans can start by end of April 2000. Below is a summary, and details
are in Annex 2.
Loans. Individuals, groups or firms can apply for a loan (importers, traders, manufacturers, service providers; women
and men with equal opportunity). Loans are to be repaid in full in up to 36 months including up to 3 months of grace
period, in equal installments. A commercial interest of 10% per year applies (that results in about 1% per month with
capitalization), both to select the better business proposals and to not crowd out lending by private banks. Priority uses
of loans are expected to be, though not limited to, restocking by traders (mostly imports); purchases of inputs,
imported or local, by manufacturers or groups; minibuses (10-12 passenger capacity); trucks (5-10 ton capacity);
business centers; rehabilitation of small hotels/guesthouses/guestrooms; equipment purchases; other small businesses.
Information dissemination. Initially a notice will be posted on the main church and the administrative building of the
district capitals. BNU East Timorese staff and facilitators employed as part of the project preparation activities are to
go in teams to all district capitals, first to inform about the program, so that the opportunity and eligibility criteria are
transparent to all, and to provide application forms and brochures; in a second round the teams will discuss business
proposals and will help fill out the application forms. Applications will be received at the administrative district
capital buildings or another location designated as an BNU temporary office; applicants will receive a receipt showing
the number of the application, as applications will be reviewed in the sequence they were presented.
Intermediation. The Banco Nacional Ultramarino (BNU) will receive an initial payment to defray start up costs.
Thereafter, BNU will provide the management of the loans based on a service fee, an initial 1.5% of the amount of
loans approved and 9.5% from loan repayments. BNU will do the loan administration at its office, in Dili, and deal
with borrowers and repayments also at part time outlets at each district, possibly the District administration building or



7           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
at the main church. The Grant Special Account will be in BNU. While funds repaid by BNU borrowers will be made
available for new loans, at some time repayments will be returned to the Government, that is the recipient of the
project Grant;. It is foreseen that at the time of project completion, UNTAET or its successor, will agree with
BNUabout the disposition of the funds available from this component.
2.    strengthening land andproperty administration. The uncertainty and lack of public confidence which
characterizes the land property environment in East Timor, and conflicting claims on land, is leading to the risk of
social disruption and constraining the urgently needed reestablishment of businesses and public services. UNCHS
(Habitat) is to provide and manage technical assistance to strengthen the service delivery of UNTAET's Land and
Property Cornmission, in the areas of land registration, cadastral survey and mapping, and land law, and for the review
by the same Commission, of policies relating to land rights adjudication and allocation of public and aLbandoned
property. The assistance is designed to prepare the basis for the development of an East Timorese institutional
capacity in land administration. The lump sum cost is $265,750.
3.   technical assistance. Consultant services will be engaged to strengthen the Project Management Unit and to
undertake preparation of 3 programs expected to be financed under another grant/tranche but that may be started under
this project (grants to communities and training for businesses) but which could not be prepared for this tranche given
the short, 2 month, preparation period. This component also covers the agreed initial fixed costs of the commercial
bank that is to intermediate, administer and implement the loan component and disburse for other components, and
funding to cover the cost of banking facilitators hired for a short term to assist the bank's longer ter nstaff during the
peak work period. The TA component has an allocation of $390,000.
Project management unit. A PMU will interface with BNU, manage contracts for consultant services and submit
related payment requests tlo BNU, have the overall reporting responsibility, and oversee the 3 prograTm preparation
efforts. The PMU is to have a manager, an environmental expert "on call", and other experts as may be found
necessary, mostly East Timorese. Funding is also available for ad-hoc consultants to be hired by the PMU, such as to
advise transporters on fonning cooperatives; for assistance to East Timorese groups or individuals that may want to
explore the formation of an investment corporation, or to make a larger private sector investments, though additional
bilateral funding may be sought for foreign experts. UNTAET is seconding two junior staff to work in the PMU and is
expected to provide assistance with contracting procedures and a chief financial officer. The PMU could be located
within UNTAET's building, given its small size, its need for "procedural" support from UNTAET, and that an
UJNTAET high level staff is designated as the liaison person with IDA for the project. If the PMU is located elsewhere
it will incur additional support costs that would need to be covered under the project. Estimated cost including
allowances for ad-hoc experts: $70,000.
Start up costs of BNU. BNU East Timor needs to set up facilities and acquire transportation means additional to
those it has for its normal operations, in order to start carrying out the loan component of the project. BNU has started
procuring the items it needs, so that dissemination activities in the district capitals can start by April I and office and
other facilities are available for the loan program staff, most of whom are already on board. BNU would also need to
set up small facilities in district capitals to handle the business during weekly visits by BNU staff, to receive loan
applications or repayments. BNU is also hiring as of May 1, staff to assist under short term contracts in the heavy
work, start up period. Allowances for these up front expenditures are $75,000 for facilities in Dili, $1 0,000 for
facilities in other districts, and $15,000 for short term staff. The total is thus $100,000.
Preparation and carrying out of training programs for business. Borrowers are to be given traiining in
accounting. But more broadly, a study will be undertaken of the training needs as expressed by businessmen and of
earlier training programs now suspended but that could be restarted through an initial funding, to determine a simple
training program that could also be started under the project (simple business practices, computer skills, dealing with
new regulations including quarantine requirements, English, etc). Programs will endeavor to train EaLst Timorese
trainers. Distance learning methods may be considered. It is the intention to tap into existing knowledge bases, such
as that of ILO that is already present in East Timor, similar programs ongoing in Brazil, and others to take advantage
of material available in the Portuguese language; it is also the intention to tap other funding sources, such as bilateral
aid, as expressions of interest have been received from them. Estimated cost: $110,000.



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD          8
Preparation of a program for grants to urban communities, in support of business. Most grant financing for East
Timor seems destined for rural areas. But urban areas have more open unemployment and need employment
programs. It is thus desired to prepare grant program(s) for the district capitals, urban communities, to provide public
works, amenities or services with public benefits, in particular in support of business needs, but that are unable to
cover costs fully or partially. Such activities would be linked to a simple urban planning exercise within each city
/town, to encourage public discussion of the future shape of that town and a better determination of where public
facilities should be located, such as a park/plaza, new market, cultural center, business center, chamber of commerce,
trucking or bus terminals, etc. and of which are the priorities for the use of the grant funds. Operations plans would be
required. The program would be prepared by East Timorese, with a minimum of foreign consultants. A pilot would be
carried out in 2-3 towns. Estimated cost: $110,000.
4.      An amount of $194,250 has been left unallocated, that can be used for either the loan or the TA components,
though not for the UNCHS land administration component.
Disbursements. All the components will be funded 100% from the grantlTFET. Because speed is of the essence,
the aim is to start disbursements to loan borrowers under the first component, by April 20. BNU is prefinancing the
up front costs, in order not to delay project implementation start. A Special Account will be opened with $700,000 at
the BNU. BNU will be entrusted all disbursements for the project, that is, for loans and services. A first intensive
implementation review would take place 3 months after the project start.
,,'n'  '"              '  Sector                               Bank-      % ofs o
cos~  Wof    inancing     aing
Loans                                                     4.00       82.5       4.00       82.5
Support to Land and Property Admin.                       0.27        5.6       0.27        5.6
Consultant Services                                       0.39        8.0       0.39        8.0
Unallocated                                               0.19        3.9       0.19        3.9
Total Project Costs                      4.85      100.0       4.85      100.0
Total Financing Required                       4.85      100.0       4.85      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
On the policy front, the project essentially seeks that there be no "framework" impediments to the development
of (legal) private businesses. UNTAET has agreed that it would facilitate the following, even if at the time of project
negotiations the frameworks developed were not yet allowing it:
1. Ease procedures for East Timorese to travel abroad; i.e. provide travel permits by demand, through easier
and faster procedures and with longer validity periods (or passports, when the procedures have been worked
out).
2. Accelerate titling, especially of non-controversial land or property (e.g. that property having a title under
Portuguese and/or Indonesian regimes) as new buildings or businesses can hardly start without unchallenged
land ownership. The Habitat assistance under the project may facilitate this.
On the institutional front, the project will help develop
3. banking services, under the loan component.
4. capacity in land and property administration, the basis for a future East Timorese system.
5. the institutional and legal bases for (i) communities undertaking public works or services intended to
support businesses, and (ii) business training in the private sector, by East Timorese, in addition to building
up the domestic capacity for undertaking preparation studies.



9            East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
6. UNTAET's new Business Register; BNU will have the registration forms at hand and provide one to each
borrower at the time of signing the loan agreement. It remains the responsibility of the businessperson, to
register. UNTAET should make registration doable at district capitals so that borrowers from outside Dili do
not need to go Dili's registration office.
The project may also assist development of business centers/chambers of commerce to support private
businesses, the formation of public transport cooperatives (if requested by the borrowers for purchases of vehicles),
and other activities as may be found useful to support private businesses.
3. Benefits and target population:
Pre crisis East TimDr was one of the poorest provinces of Indonesia, based on the standard income-based
poverty line. Poverty has greatly increased with the loss of assets, houses and businesses; now most of the population
is poor.
The urban population is the project target. It is expected that borrowers are mostly from the district capitals; this
is by design, as rural communities are covered under the CEP. However, the rural population will benefit as well, as it
will have better trade prospects and lower service costs. The initial equal suballocations by district of the grant
allocation for loans will produce more widespread benefits and it is expected, will help more poor business people as
generally businesses in the capital are better off and might capture all the loan funds if there was no limit. Refugees
abroad and internal migration make it difficult to pinpoint the total and urban population sizes (pre crisis population
was about 850,000, with some 30% in urban areas, the largest being Dili); currently there may be 200,000 in urban
areas. The initial number of borrowers will depend on the loan sizes, perhaps no more than 300; loan repayments will
be used to provide new loans, so that the total number of borrowers will be higher. The project loan component should
try to reach many beneficiaries rather than a few, but it is not known how demand will turn out, since repayment
conditions are stringent in order to also promote sustainable banking lending.
Providing capital to enable entrepreneurs to restart economic activities has a high pay-off in a post conflict
situation. The project aimns at a quick start, to provide some services and goods, and enable benefits from other private
sector investments and activities that may follow. In the case of trucks and buses, for instance, benefits may be the
difference between lack and availability of motorized transport; the alternative may be transport by horse, cycles or on
foot. Business centers may help establish contacts for importers, exporters and domestic traders; help with
computerized document processing, etc. at an affordable cost, while minimizing the numbers of office equipment to be
bought. Guest houses anid small hotel redevelopment will provide facilities, now practically non-existing, for traders
and experts, while allowing East Timorese families rather than a potential intemationally owned hotel, to capture the
income from the services. Small enterprises are more labor intensive and have large multiplier effects in informal
sectors, so it is hoped that they can capture a good share of the funds available even though a few larger loans would
require fewer reviews and repayment could be considered less risky.
The loan repayments shall be used for new loans; it was estimated, with an average repayment period of 2 years
and 80% collection, that 'by the end of the project, $2 million may have been re-lent, for a total of $6 million in loans.
The financial returns to borrowers is expected to be no less than 15%, and larger to the economy through indirect
benefits. Surely some businesses will fail and be unable to repay the loans; but in the case of goods purchases, the
goods may still produce benefits for a new owner and in the case of services, the funds spent may have funded labor
services and had indirect benefits. Ultimately, a future East Timor Government shall own the funds (if the loan
repayment rate is 80%, some $3.4 million); given that any new Govemment will have limited revenues, having such
funding will facilitate priority expenditures.
Another benefit of the project is that it helps restart commercial banking lending and should facilitate the
provision of'other banking services, not only in Dili but in the district capitals; by the project financing the start up
costs and providing capital, it is expected that private banking can become sustainable in a near future. Currently no
private bank is willing to use its own capital in East Timor as perceived risks are too high.
The benefits from the preparation studies under the project will be the institutional capacity they help create, by
enabling the hiring of East Timorese consultants, and the readiness of useful new programs that could start



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD       10
implementation later in calendar 2000, with design appropriate to the East Timor culture and implementation by East
Timorese. The target population would continue to be that in district capitals.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The two main institutions involved are BNU and UNTAET/PMU.
BNU is key in the implementation of the loan program. BNU will:
1. establish/have capacity to screen and evaluate the loan applications, and decide which ones are funded. Even if
it has no own capital at risk, BNU is to follow commercial judgement and standard commercial bank practices,
and rules and criteria as defined in its Project Manual. It will provide adequate office capacity and facilities at
Dili and as needed at district capitals, possibly at the District Administration buildings or at another location,
and transportation means.
2. provide loans from $500 to $50,000; at 10% interest; with a grace period of up to 3 months if one is agreed, in
which case interest is capitalized; and a maximum repayment period of 36 months (including any grace months)
though the repayment period should be as short as feasible and no loan repayment should be due after August
31, 2003. BNU will provide current accounts at no cost to borrowers, and will also pay directly foreign suppliers
if needed, without money transfer fees. BNU will have temporary offices and staff every week at each district
capital, to receive loan applications, to post on public boards the loan numbers approved, not approved, and
being considered; to provide the loan funds to borrowers and receive repayments. The initial allocation for each
district is $307,700; funds uncommitted after 3 months may be used in another district with outstanding loan
applications.
3. BNU is to use the loan repayments and interest payments from borrowers, to provide additional loans until the
scheduled end of the project, December 31, 2001. However, in the event that the average collection of loan and
interest payments in any calendar month is (i) less than 80% of the amounts due that month under the terms of
the loan agreements, UNTAET and BNU would meet within 10 days of the end of the month, to discuss the
situation and determine an appropriate course of action; and (ii) 60% or less of the amounts due, BNU will
suspend approving new loans until a course of action, acceptable to IDA, to remedy the situation is agreed
between UNTAET and BNU.
In addition, BNU will
4. manage the Special Account on behalf of UNTAET, and disburse also for TA services approved by IDA and the
PMIJ.
5. provide reports and statements of the operations under the loan program, to the Project Management Unit
(representing UTNTAET) in Dili, and to IDA: monthly succinct tables; quarterly reports; annual reports (the
month of the annual report, no monthly or quarterly report is needed). Essential content of the reporting system
was agreed at appraisal (Annex 6). It will also provide reports on disbursements for TA contracts.
6. allow an independent auditor to review the project accounts each year; the audits need to be available within 6
months after the end of the fiscal year. It will also allow IDA staff to review progress during supervision
missions. BNU is audited by a reputable international audit firm that is acceptable to IDA; the audit by this
firm, provided that it also provides more detailed audits of the loans under the project, would be acceptable.
BNU will be paid for its efforts as follows:
1. A maximum of $75,000 is allowed for up front fixed costs, for facilities, transportation means, etc. that have to
be incremental costs in relation to BNU's standard operations; up to $10,000 is allowed for furnishing district
level offices. These costs will be paid under a contract with the PMU. In the unlikely event of an early
termination of BNU services, BNU and UNTAET would also discuss what to do with the facilities.



11          East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
2. Operating costs are to be covered with a 1.5% fee upon loan approval and 9.5 % from repayments of loans and
payment of interest, until August 30, 2003. The fee levels were calculated assuming an 80% collection rate and
an average loan repayment period of 2 years, to cover monthly costs estimated at $22,717 from May 1 to April
30, 2001 and $13,967 thereafter, as the project director would delegate to the deputy director (at March 2000
unit costs, and on the basis of monthly salary and operating costs of 17 full time East Timoreses staff for the
program, of 3 BNU support staff, of 2 higher level staff and the director on a part time basis, and rental cost of
office space at Dili). Total operating costs between May 1, 2000 and August 31, 2003 are estimated at
$664,000. Because BNU's net current income from the program fees are forecast to be negative at later months,
BNU is to keep in reserve the surpluses expected as of May 1, 2001 (incomes from the 1.5% up front fee and the
9.5% retention from loan repayments, minus the operating cost in line with those agreed at project negotiations).
Costs are to be reviewed every 6 months.
3. From January 1, 2002 to August 31, 2003, all repayment proceeds will be held in a non-interest bearing account
with BNU in the name of UNTAET; the potential income from the funds would accrue to BNU. Promptly after
October 31, 2003 BNU will provide UNTAET (or the successor Government) a financial statement providing
full disclosure of incomes and expenditures under the loan program.
The implications of these provisions are discussed in Section E. 2, Financial analysis. Up front costs and the
forecast cash flow (not including BNU's income from an UNTAET non-interest bearing account) are shown in Annex
5.
Because the supervision of IDA normally ends when the Project Grant is fully disbursed, while the loan
program will continue implementation beyond this "completion" date, the above safeguard provisions and dates have
been agreed with UNTAET and BNU and recorded in minutes of negotiations, to supplement the Implementation
Program included in the Project Agreement. If the project completion date is changed, then BNU and the Government
will agree on the dispositionluse of the funds.
PMIJ. A Project Management Unit is to be established, essentially to manage the consultant services to be
engaged under the project. It would also have "on-call" an environmental expert in case a loan proposal submitted to
RNU is deemed to require review by such an expert. Establishment by UNTAET of a PMU including identification of
the leader, a staffing plan and a budget, and a final financial management action plan proposal by UNTAET, are 2
conditions of effectiveness of the Grant. To the extent that BNU handles the SA, the PMU may not need to produce
separate financial statements for the project.
The PMU will draft the terms of reference for the preparation of the training and grant programs, and will
handle the procurement process of the required consultants to undertake the preparations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
At this point the only alternative to that adopted to assist private sector activities and employment in urban
areas, of small loans, seems to be welfare payments. Quite a number of programs are already available or foreseen
mostly for labor intensive works. An additional pure welfare program seemed a worse alternative than taking business
risks, because of the demoralization of people on welfare and then, the difficulty in getting out of it. Also, welfare
payments generally are set to just cover subsistence needs of workers; they could hardly provide for savings towards
capital costs of new ventures or jump start the economy, and would most likely have less sustainable results.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).
A number of programs complements or is expected to complement the one proposed; their existence also
delimited the number of alternatives considered. Some initiatives are under preparation, others are reported to be ready
to start implementation. Information gathered from the various international or bilateral agencies is summarized in
minutes available in the project file. Some relevant programs are mentioned below as reported mid-March, though the
situation changes rapidly:



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD         12
Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project (CEP). The TFET, CEP allocation is $21.5 million,
$18 million for community grants, $2 million for a cultural heritage component, and $1 million for a civil society
development fund. IDA and UNTAET signed the Grant Agreement in February 2000. Implementation activities are
expected to start in April 2000 in some 22 subdistricts and expand to 60 subdistricts by the end of the year 2000, and
be completed in 2.5 years. Protection of the old Dili Museum building has started with local workers, under the
cultural component.
Humanitarian program for shelter. Some 3,500 kits with materials for houses have been distributed and more
are on the way (comprising corrugated zinc sheets, timber posts, nails, hammers, etc.) . An assessment update of
housing needs would be undertaken shortly, to determine how much additional funding is justified for housing repairs.
It would also be useful to ascertain whether the kits are being used as intended.
Emergency road repair works. The UNTAET Infrastructure/Road group has prepared an emergency work
program with emphasis on road drainage cleaning and improvement by labor intensive methods and the minimum
necessary equipment. Negotiations were underway with 4 construction companies in East Timor, to award each of
them a contract for about $1 million, with initial funding by the United Kingdom and Norway, and follow on funding
by ADB. Japan has pledged another $1 million. The contracts are based on the UNDP model, including an
anticorruption clause.
Dili administration. Some $110,000 (other district capitals would have the same funding level) from various
sources are available for quick impact programs, such as microcredit, drain cleaning, gully repairs. Police training is
starting. An expected $2.5 million would be used for sanitation in markets; beautification of the city including the
waterfront; rehabilitation of a public swimming pool and addition of ball courts; youth centers including a Film Center,
etc. Sponsorships will be sought for soccer tournaments. The administrator expects to need to remain up to 3 years.
Assistance to refugees wishing to return. The International Organization for Migration to Geneva based NGO,
plans to assist some 300 persons over 3 years, starting in February 2000, with a grant to cover the cost of the return
trip, $500 for installation costs, up to $2,500 for equipment, and $100 or $200 (those with university degrees) per
month for some months.
USAID Office of Transition Initiatives. Activities totaling $1.2 million were ongoing as of March 1, mainly
labor intensive works starting in 3 pilot districts (Liquica, Aileu and Manatuto). A total of $12 million is designated
for further activities in the near future, to support comrnunity-led development, reconstruction and employment
projects, to assist independent media outlets, enable East Timorese organizations, etc. The activities are coordinated
with UNTAET.
Microcredit. ADB intends to prepare a microcredit project, that would complement this project.
Sector Issue  e     Project                 Latest Supervision
Sector Issue         X        :ProJect          ;              PSR) Ratings
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ :__________ :  (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
providing funding in rural areas   East Timnor Community              S             S_
Empowerment and Local
Governance (starting in April)
TF
assisting urban poor               Indonesia Urban Poverty            S             S
Project (Cr. 3210)
post conflict assistance          Bosnia and Herzegovina              S             S
Emergency Recovery Project
Other development agencies
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



13          East Tiinor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Speed is essential to help people in post-conflict situations. Private sector East Timorese could be consulted
more than they have been, but as a feasible commercial process was identified, it was then also feasible to simply start
with such normal process., and let the market decide what it wants, that is better anyway for sustainability. That is, the
project has been kept simple and easy, and the identification to negotiations time very short--about 2 months (February
1 to March 30, 2000).
Relying on the national decision makers increases the chances of successful implementation. East Timorese
persons were involved from the beginning in defining the project concept, some generously assisting at no cost.
Information already collected by other experts was perused and data collection not duplicated. The only expatriates
involved so :far in this project preparation are the World Bank staff, BNU's Portuguese manager, and the UNTAET
counterparts. The preparation cost has thus been kept very low; involving more persons and more time in preparation
has quickly decreasing returns. The project itself allows for hiring expertise if private demand develops for it (e.g. for
setting up transport cooperatives, for international experts to advise on more complex matters).
Relying on beneficiaries to decide their priorities also increases the chances of success of the project. Project
experience elsewhere in the region tells that it is feasible to rely on even poor and illiterate persons to have good
business judgement and to repay loans when the right incentive and framework are in place. It is also expected that
only the best proposals will be funded and this enhances the success prospects. The project no longer comprises a
grant component; some persons felt that grants could have lessened borrowers' sense of obligation to repay.
Transparency and social interest and pressure in seeing that loans are repaid and other persons given the
opportunity to borrow, because funds are scarce, come into play. The initial socialization will provide public
information on dos and don'ts, including that women shall have equal opportunity to borrow provided their proposal is
good. BNU has been given incentives to perform its role for the project.
Bosnia-Herzegovina had 16 projects approved in one year (1996), also funded by a multidonor group after the
crisis. One of the first projects was an Emergency Recovery Project that included lines of credit for small and medium
sized enterprises and an emergency Social Fund. OED's review was favorable. For East Timor, the example of
various small projects instead of fewer larger ones is followed, as the grant funding for the project may be in the 2
tranches, the second tranche including more or different components.
4. Indications of Recipient commitment and ownership:
The need for assistance to small and medium enterprises was agreed at the multi-donor consultative meeting
with the involvement of East Timorese leaders/CNRT. Resumption of economic activities; reducing the
unemployment in urban areas (above 90% early February; 80% mentioned in March) is urgent. Local East Timorese
leaders will further, be involved in the public dissemination of information in district capitals. The project is designed
to respond to the market demand, which is in line with economic policy adopted. East Timorese will be involved in
the design of the new programs including the criteria and procedures; including the preparation under this project
provides more time and funding for local involvement.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
There is limited capacity in East Timor itself to restart quickly the process of economic recovery, and few
foreign private sector entrepreneurs would assist in this post conflict situation with risk capital, until some other
activity has started. Knowing this, the international community has pledged assistance and funds, and IDA agreed to
prepare projects deemed priority in selected sectors, drawing on its staff pool and earlier knowledge of the region.
IDA may also involve more East Timorese in program preparation and implementation than other agencies would
involve.
The number of loans is expected to be relatively low and only one bank is involved. Thus, monitoring by IDA
can be quite easy, fast and useful. Therefore, it is intended to review progress 3 months after implementation start, by
the end of July 2000, to observe closely the initial progress and determine changes, if any, needed in the loan program.



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD         14
The preparation of new programs under the project should also be complete by July 2000. The PMU is also to provide
a monitoring report by end of October 2000 and 2001, for a review with IDA by the end of November 2000 and 2001.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
*Other (specify)
Ex-ante, potential borrowers would expect a return on their loans to exceed the nominal interest cost of 10% per
year. Ex post, some businesses will fail--this is a certainty more than a risk--but others will return more than the
interest rate. No attempt has been made to quantify benefits for this report, even though 80 applications submitted to
the IDA office in Dili before any official information was provided on the program, expected returns in excess of 10%,
following a description of the business, expected profits and needed capital. The proposals helped determine the loan
range; the maximum was increased as a result from $25,000 to $50,000. This new maximum should ensure that the
funds from a loan are sufficient to start meaningful and profitable activities--but also may lead to a smaller number of
loans. Benefits expected from the business has to be included in the loan application forms, and these will be analyzed
by type of activity, gender of business owner, etc. Regular surveys will be made after a loan has been approved to
ascertain actual profitability of the business, whether it is still operating, etc. This information will also be analyzed
and included in the non-financial, periodic reports by BNU.
Overall, the expected return of the loan program for the economy is higher than 10% because as services and
goods become available, more jobs are created and purchasing power starts revolving. And, the project may reduce
price levels, as it would help increase supplies. Loans work as seed capital, with a multiplier effect. Repayment
periods will be as short as possible, based on the business proposals, to enable more people to access funds; as loans
are repaid and funds re-lent, the return to the original loan program allocation increases and would be higher than if the
funds were used for grants. If repayment averages 80% and repayment periods average 2 years, it is estimated that
loans will total $6 million by the end of 2001, when no new loans should be issued. It will be important to monitor
progress carefully, as if the seed money stops too early, for instance, more business may fail and the program may then
not achieve the objectives. If loan repayments in any month are 60% or less of amounts due that month, then BNU
will not approve new loans unless a course of action is been agreed with IDA and UNTAET.
The BNU costs are not an additional cost to the loan funded activities, given that the fee is deducted from loan
payments and the initial BNU cost is paid from a different source. The project is providing benefits by helping restart
what is hoped to become sustainable banking lending services that otherwise would be unavailable for a longer time.
At the time of project identification, BNU was the only bank entering the retail business in East Timor; the alternative
of hiring a consulting firm to provide the same services would have taken a longer time, would have cost as much and
the sustainability probability would be lower. It will be in BNU's longer term interest to require a sound loan
performance and be efficient and competitive. The adopted process should also lower costs of eventual future
intermediations.
The effort to prepare new assistance programs--training, community grants in support of businesses--should have
high returns for intemational aid funding, in that it will maximize the involvement of East Timorese in design and
implementation; locally prepared programs have better chances of sustainability and cost less. New employment
opportunities are important, and to the extent that East Timorese can learn on the job and can even redo some outputs
and still be below international costs, it is a winning alternative. They will also be better prepared for the subsequent
implementation. Nevertheless, some foreign experts may be needed, and additional bilateral grant funding may be
sought for this.
Improving land and property administration is also essential, as businesses need the certainty of clear ownership
of the assets before embarking on building new or repairing old buildings. However, the study under the project may
not achieve as much progress as is desirable. It funds a limited number of international experts.



15          East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The BNU initial (up to $85,000) and current operational costs from May 1, 2000 to August 30, 2003 ($663,700)
for the loan program have been reviewed, and with assumptions on loan repayment rates (average 80%) and periods
(average 2 years), were the basis for determining the operational fee for BNU to cover estimated current costs (1.5%
fee on loan approval and 9.5% from repayments) and the contract necessary to cover up front costs (if up front fixed
costs had to be recovered from future fees, these would have had to be much higher). If BNU could earn 5% on the
non-interest bearing reserve account, its income increases by about $ 100,000. It must be noted that these numbers do
not take into account the effect of negative and positive cash flow balances over time, nor are they in present value
terms. In addition, BNU may profit from currency exchange requested by borrowers, and from other services it may
develop in the district capitals for a larger clientele. BNU risks not covering its agreed operating costs; but it may
make a profit if it is successful. The system to pay BNU provides incentives to recover loan payments and protect the
principal, even while BNU does not have own capital at risk. It is likely that BNU terms may have to be reviewed later
on, given the uncertainty of the assumptions.
BNU's initial and estimated operating costs result in 12.5% on the funds lent, assuming $6 rnillion lent, the initial
$4 million allocation and $2 million re-lent (at the assumed 80% loan recovery). An income of 5% from the reserve
account would add a BNU profit of less than 2% of the amount lent. In this scenario, about $3.5 rnillion are gradually
recovered beginning January 1, 2002 and available by August 31, 2003 in an account for a new Government. If
recovery rates are above 80%, more funds are available by the project end for the Govemment, and BNU would have a
higher profit. And viceversa. Setting up another new intermediary entity would most likely cost more, certainly
require a longer preparation period, and may not promote a sustainable lending entity.
The 10% interest rate was adopted so as to not crowd out future commercial lending, and it was generally
considered to be affordable by borrowers for the type of loans considered. Rates were higher in other countries in
similar circumstances. The few alternative, informal, sources of funds available in East Timor carry much higher
interest rates. CNRT requested that future microcredit schemes apply an interest rate lower than 10%; a low interest
rate is an objective mostly constrained by the need to cover costs, to protect the principal and promote sustainable
operations by private sector entities, even if the initial capital is grant money.
No exchange rate losses or gains affect the project accounts, given East Timor's adoption of'the US dollar as
currency. Importers don't face exchange risk other than having a limited period to speculate for a better exchange rate
for other currencies. Nevertheless, East Timorese use mostly Indonesian rupiah as they did before the conflict
(especially in daily transactions for small amounts, that would require coins in dollar terms; but coins and even $1 bills
are not available while the Rpl,000 bill, equivalent to 1/7-1/6 of a US dollar, is available). The private sector is slowly
providing more rupiah bills, and offering currency exchange on the street; the current buy and sell margins makes
currency dealing profitable and arbitration is reducing margins. Transactions may lose in the rupiah/dollar exchange, if
the borrower converts the loan, in US dollars, into rupiah and then has to repay in US dollars. This potential loss (or
unlikely gain) is to be explained to borrowers when relevant--and may be another source of profit for BNU.
BNU is the only bank in East Timor providing retail services at this time. Still, BNU has to apply commercial
banking criteria in the whole loan process. Project accounting, and audits to be performed by qualified auditors, are to
meet standard IDA requirements. The costs and revenues should be monitorable easily based on the computerized
reporting system to be set up. The Special Account can also be monitored easily, including the retentions of BNU for
itself. Draft financial reporting data and forms have been discussed and agreed with BNU; any format changes should
be agreed by April 30, 2000.
A financial management action plan will be required for Grant effectiveness from UNTAET. UNTAET has
recruited a Project Chief Financial Officer for the Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. This person will also be the Chief Financial Officer for this project,
and will oversee as needed the financial management by BNU, that is to handle all funds under the project.
Fiscal Impact: The fiscal impact is expected to be positive.



East Timor - Smnall Enterprises Project PAD       1 6
3. Technical:
The project did not require technical preparation but mostly, organizational and administrative processes. If
vehicles were to be procured by an agent under the project, then (complicated) vehicle specifications would be needed.
By allowing buyers to choose they can select their preferred option, and have a greater sense of responsibility given
that the choice was theirs. Repairs or construction of buildings would follow standard practice that should be in line
with the building code of the previous administration. An environmental expert is to be hired under the PMU to assist
with review of environmental aspects when this may be deemed necessary. The PMU may also hire experts to assist
groups interested in advice. Other technical matters arising under subprojects would be addressed as needed; borrowers
could also hire short term experts under the loans.
No rate regulations will be imposed on the services to be provided by the borrowers, as they will be expected to
operate in a competitive market (e.g. no maximum freight rates).
4. Institutional:
The institutional set up for project implementation was explained in an earlier section.
4.1 Executing agencies:
IDA is the Trustee of the TFET funding the project. UNTAET is the interim administration; it signs the Grant
Agreement with IDA and monitors implementation through a designated senior staff, and the PMU.
4.2 Project management:
BNU is the implementation agency for the loan program and for all disbursements. The staffing of BNU in
general, has been ascertained as being sufficient and qualified, while also the staffing and facilities required to
implement the program have been agreed and are part of BNU's proposal. The propsal is in Annex 5.
A PMU is to manage the consultant services. UNTAET has seconded two junior staff for the PMU, and needs to
provide a full PMU proposal for Grant effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Procurement Capacity Assessment (PCA) was carried out by the Bank on all of the procurement and
executing agencies to be involved in this project and concluded that there are no major issues. Procurement under the
project will be carried out with the assistance of the International Tendering Company (ITC) of the China Technology
Import & Export Corporation, which is one of the state-approved and controlled intemational tendering companies
which are certified by the central government as being proficient in international procurement. The ITC also was the
procurement agency for the first Beijing Project, financed by the Bank, and is the tendering company for the ongoing
ADB project.
The PCA determined that while BDC has the experience and capacity to satisfactorily conduct the procurement
required in this project, the procurement units of Shihuan-Jietian and the EPB will receive adequate assistance from
experienced PMO staff for procurement, and the ITC will provide additional procurement training to all three agencies.
All procurement in the project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines. The PCA concluded that
there are no unusual features in this project which could give rise to concern with respect to procurement matters, and
considering the record of procurement implementation and management in China and in Beijing Municipality, the risks
on this project are considered below average. The enactment of the national procurement law, effective from January
1, 2000, should serve to further reinforce this conclusion.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management and Disbursement: The detailed analysis and assessment of the adequacy of the project
financial management system is shown in "Review of Financial Management System" (hereafter called Review) in the



17          East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
project file. The results of the Review and corresponding Action Plan to address measures needed to improve
capacities are included in Attachment 1 of the Review. The Review has concluded that this project meets minimum
Bank financial management requirements. In terms of disbursement technique, the project will be utilizing traditional
disbursement techniques as opposed to using the PMR-based disbursement system.
The status of the borrower's and the project implementing entities' compliance with audit covenants in existing
Bank-financed projects is satisfactory. The auditors issued an unqualified opinion and no major outstanding issues
exist with the prior project: Beijing Environment Project, with the exception of delay in counterpart funding. Details
regarding agreements reached with the borrower on standards and formats for audited financial statements and
timetable for their submission are shown in "Review" Section V for Internal Controls and Section VII Project
Reporting Requirements.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including consultation and
disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Although the specific types of investments to be financed with loans are uncertain, their size will be limited by
the relatively low loan ceiling. Most are unlikely to have significant environmental impacts. Public transport vehicles
(buses and trucks) would only have to meet standard emission limits and should also comply with the usual safety
standards (vehicles would have to be relatively new or new). Any new or renovated buildings, such as guesthouses,
should have adequate provisions for sanitation and wastewater disposal, such as septic tanks, soak-aways and drainage
around the buildings; the building code applies. The BNU staff would pass on to the PMU the types of proposals pre-
identified as having a potential environmental impact; the PMU is to engage an environmental consultant to be "on
call" to assist with the necessary review, mitigation and monitoring measures.
The Project Manual will contain environmental principles to guide project implementation.
5.2 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the environment?
Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The PMU will keep track of investments financed by loans.
No indicators specific to environmental impacts are proposed.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social development
outcomes.
Potential social issues associated with the project: (a) unrest by many loan seekers who may not be assisted; (b)
applications by women not given the same consideration as those by men; (c) larger borrowers likely to be better
prepared and capture the funds available; (d) "elite" groups capturing the funds--this latter issue is complex, because
elites are likely able to comply better with loan requirements and to provide employment, good management and
repayment. Nevertheless, it was considered better to not have allocations by loan size. A microcredit program will be
essential to provide funds for potential borrowers of smaller amounts, who may be bypassed in this program.
Names of defaulters will be made public. Groups of persons are jointly liable can apply for loans; this is
expected to help women applicants.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
At the community meetings announcing the loan program, some preselection of genuine loan candidates is
expected to take place. Overall, loans are to private parties, and the "participation" may be restricted to see that not too
many similar types of businesses are proposed or approved for the same locality. It will be important that program
facilitators do not discourage shy or less experienced persons.



East Tirnor - Small Enterprises Project PAD          18
For the preparation of programs proposed under the project, on the other hand, participation will be extensive, so
that the programs can be genuinely East Timorese. Field trips, surveys, discussions, consultations are part of the
envisaged preparation with East Timorese consultants or NGOs, though the time taken of East Timorese being
consulted will be kept short as such time detracts from their work and potentially from their income.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Applicability
Policy
(OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                                          Yes
(OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                          No
(OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   No
(OP 4.09)                                                            No
(OPN 11.03)                                                          No
(OD 4.20)                                                            No
(OD 4.30)                                                            No
(OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                                   No
(OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                                          No
(OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                                          No
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The program is proposed as part of the overall East Timor reconstruction effort. It is planned for a short
implementation period, some 2 years; although the Grant disbursements are expected to be faster than scheduled, and
the period for revolving of funds is expected to go beyond the scheduled project "completion" date (when the Grant
funds will have been disbursed, the Grant closes). The services developed should remain sustainable thereafter on a
commercial basis; that is a reason why loans are of a commercial type (even if BNU is not taking capital risks). BNU
may want to lend its own funds after the project funds are exhausted and the public is used to the commercial terms; in
fact, BNU has the potential of acquiring a customer base through the project. If at a project review it is judged that the
economy received sufficient impetus, by this or other means, and that continued loans under the project could crowd
out private capital, then no further loans would need to be provided. However, in a growth scenario capital will be in
much demand while foreign investors are unlikely to focus on small loans; their funds could be channeled into larger
ventures. Grants may be justified even if further loans are not; or vice versa, depending on other programs and
progress. Sustainability of the need for the project is more likely if the recovery is not successful-- sustainable results
would lead to a non-sustained program.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
The project overall may be high or substantial risk, even if individual ratings suggest an average modest risk.
The alternative of distributing the Grant funds to the population as open-ended grants (a negative tax or welfare),
is less attractive, though it would carry fewer risks, of a different nature. Even if because of the emergency situation
loans carry higher risk than usual, fear of business failures, that are bound to happen, should not stop the restart of a
bank lending process. It is expected that the majority of loans will be repaid, first because there are good business
opportunities, and also because of social pressure and the penalties, both formal and infornal, applicable on defaulters;
names of defaulters will be posted in a public place, defaulters will be ineligible for further loans, collateral can be
seized. The process adopted is as commercial as feasible, given the support from the TFET and that the BNU is not
putting its own capital at risk, which could lessen its scrutiny of applications and collection effort.



19           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
RiSk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Poor quality of application screening       M         BNU staff trained;
large number of applications expected so that
only the best, good ones are retained
Capture by elites                           M         Small loan amounts, and public disclosure,
would not attract the wealthier businessmen
Failure of loan financed businesses         M         Proper business screening, and training
Local NGOs, Church, help                    N         Discussions at project start for their early
involvement if desired
Inadequate East Timorese staff              N         BNU, good staff hired and trained; for PMU, to
be selected carefully but qualified candidates are
available
Inadequate training and assistance to       S         Surveys to identify needs, potential providers of
private sector                                        training and expertise, under the TA component
Few jobs created                            M         Number of jobs created is given importance in
loan application screening, but indirect jobs
created may be more than direct ones
From Components to Outputs
Poor mechanisms by BNU                      N         BNU's staffing and implementation plan
discussed extensively
Poor loan recovery                          S         BNUIs fee is to come from loan repayments, that
provides an incentive for high collection. Also,
BNU to operate in the future., wants to create a
good precedent with high loan recovery
practices.
Overall Risk Ratng                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Delays may be more controversial than any detail of the program, even though as time passes more programs are
becoming available, but none of these are for loans to East Timorese entrepreneurs.
In the World Bank, a) the provision of loans through an intermediary rather than to a borrowing entity that in
tum on-lends at its own risk, is controversial; b) allowing loans to individuals rather than only to community groups
(as under Social Funds) may also be controversial. However, East Timor is in a post-conflict situation, where normal
circumstances barely apply, and there is a need to restart commercial processes that cannot start unless th1e average
businessmen can obtain some financing to buy equipment and materials, cover labor costs, etc. until the product is
sold. That is why the TFET funds are available--and not private foreign capital. The provision of grants for
community improvements would be non controversial, but would not achieve the same end.



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD       20
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
There were 3 conditions for Grant effectiveness:
1. Establishment of the PMU and a staffing plan and budget.
2. A financial management action plan for the project.
3. BNU will have issued the Project Manual, acceptable to IDA, in a final version.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. BNU (PA, Schedule 2) and UNTAET (GA, Schedule 4) are to prepare a monitoring and evaluation report
by October 31, 2000 and October 31, 2001, and review the reports with IDA by November 30, 2000 and
November 30, 2001, respectively.
2. procedures and terns and conditions of loans (PA, Schedule 1)
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1I 1. b) Not applicable.
n 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
I13 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
0  4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
BNU was ready to start implementation of the loan program by end March 2000, as soon as negotiation of the
Grant Agreement between IDA and UNTAET and the Project Agreement between BNU and IDA, IDA as Trustee of
the TFET funds, were complete. BNU has a Project Implementation Plan; a Project Manual including a public notice,
loan application forms and brochures in 4 languages (English, Portuguese, Tetum and Indonesian), operational
directives to staff, terms of reference for project staff, etc. BNU had started procurement of the facilities it needs for
the program, and is prefinancing them; a contract to cover these costs is in draft, to be finalized upon Grant
effectiveness. BNU has to provide a final dated plan for the missing items. Staff have been hired and trained. BNU's
plans to start approving loans around the end of April.
UNCHS will prepare the land and property administration study.
The PMU will draft terms of reference for other studies and their related procurement documents.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
IZ3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.
F  a Johansen                           Javed Hamid                       Klaus Rohland
Zam Leader                           .1-Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director



21            East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
w  w <th a Ky~,. g 6itPormnanco    :-  fF  
Hierarchy   of'Olbj            ]nccto                 Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Medium term reconstruction  Economic growth estimates   Macroeconomic reports    Continued law and order.
program                                                                          Quick return of gov't to
Timorese leaders.
Foreign investment is
attracted
Poverty reduction          Poverty assessments        Social sector reports      Recovery programs work
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Restart economic activities in # small businesses and group  Business surveys    Infrastructure and framework
the private sector, urban areas, activities, working                              are not constraints.
as soon as possible
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Component 1: loans         # loans approved and       BNU monthly, quarterly     Good quality application
develop small businesses   disbursements              Loan agreements            screening
develop services           service availability                                  No capture by elites
banking                                                                         Business can succeed in
other                                                                           difficult circumstances
provide sustainable jobs   # jobs generated
Component 2: services      PMU, efficient administration. PMU monthly, quarterly.  PMU l'imorese staff are
Land administration        Potential NGOs, private sector Yearly audits.         available.
Program preparation        initiatives                Public information boards and Training and assistance to
Training                                              other notices.             private sector are identified
and provided.
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)    -
Loans                      $4.00 million              As above, and              Good mechanisms by BNU
Land administration study    $0.27 million            Special Account statements
Services                   $0.39 million
PMU
Studies



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD        22
Small Enterprises Project
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
6/30/00    12/31/00   6/30/01    12/31/01
I. Inputs
Loans
# of requests, cum.                    400        800         1000       1100
% approved                             37%        30%        25%        30%
Days between request and approval, average 15     12         10         5
Disbursements, cum. $ million          2          4.2
Disbursements, cum. with revolving funds  2       4.5   5               6
TA, disbursements., cum. $ million     0.1        0.2  0.2              0.2
II. Outputs
Loans
Cum. # of loans approved               150        220        250        300
Of which to women                >20        >30         >35        >40
# of workers                     450        700         1500       2000
of which women                    45         70         150        200
cum. loan amount approved, $m          2          4.2         5         6
Average loan size, $                   20,000     20,000     20,000     20,000
Average disbursement period, years     2          2          2           1
Repayments of capital, $m              -          0.3        0.7         1.0
Payment of interest              .          0.1         0.3        0.4
Repayments, % of due amounts           100        >90        >80        >80
Defaults, %                            -          <10        <20        <20
Amounts repaid, and revolving          -          0.3
Land Study                                        completed
TA
TA to enterprises/training             defined    ongoing    ongoing    complete
III. Impacts
Projected net benefits, % of
loan amounts approved                 >15%       >15%        >15%       >15%
Benefits by type of activity          survey      survey     survey     survey
Business still operating, %            100        >90        >80        >80



23           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Annex 2: Project Description
EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
The project is to provide loans to small businesses, and consultant services.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.00 million
Small loans. Commercial practices will be followed for small loans. Instruction sheets will be in four languages
(alphabetical order: English, Indonesian, Portuguese and Tetum). Loan Applications are to show, in any of the four languages,
1.         Personal identification (name, address, age, assets, sources and amounts of periodic income)
2.         business location
3.         proposed business description
4.         previous experience/ongoing business
5.         proposed use of the loan
6.         business plan
7.        financing plan
expected investment cost
financing and assets available for the business
sales/market expectations
expected revenues, operating expenses, cash flow by month
8.         number of employees required, by type
9.         guarantees and warrantor
10.        any earlier default
Note:---No land acquisition can be financed with the loan.
Loan applications should be presented to the bank office in Dili or at the District Administrator offices, or when BNU staff
and facilitators are in the districts. Applications will be logged in with standard bank practice (with a sequence number at each
location; this and the date will be stamped on the application. The applicant shall receive proof of submission, with location, date
and number). Incomplete applications may not be considered further by the reviewers. As it is expected that demand for loans will
exceed funds available under this line of credit only the best proposals will be funded. Reviewers will verify the infornation
provided; initial verification may have been done by facilitators.
Approvals, or denials, should be decided as soon as possible after receipt of the applications (initially a large volume may
result in some delays). When an application is "approved", a Loan Agreement in any of the four languages is prepared; loan
agreements are to show the repayment schedule, sanctions (for late repayment, for non repayment after attempts to obtain payment
by the bank, such as repossessing the goods or the guarantee, recourse to the warrantor, exclusion of the borrower from eligibility
of future loans), etc. Loan agreements would be signed within 1 week of the approval date, by the applicant and the bank; the
applicant may be given an extra week to comply with some criteria. An English translation shall be made of each signed
agreement.
The recipient trader/producer can do his shopping/procurement based on standard commercial practices; a borrower would
look for the best deal. Disbursement of the loan should start within 2 weeks of its approval, unless an extension is justified and
accepted by BNU.
The disbursement procedures are varied to reflect also different procurement processes as may be needed: For imports of
goods, the BNU will pay directly the foreign supplier, based on the pro-forma invoice, commercial payment terms, bill of lading,
etc. in the required currency. The importer is expected to have followed best commercial practices to obtain lowest evaluated
prices, and will have agreed on FOB, CIF, or other terms. The title on imported equipment would remain in BNU; the goods
remain as collateral, until the loan is fully paid. For other payments in Timor, the bank can pay in cash to the borrower, or can
also pay directly the supplier of goods, works or services, based on the agreed proposal by the supplier including payment terms,
even if several suppliers are involved.
The borrower agrees to repay the loan per the loan agreement even if he/she does not receive cash. Groups can designate
one person to be the interlocutor with BNU, but all group members remain liable. Repayments will be made based on the agreed
schedule, that will reflect the business modalities (i.e., variable repayment periods, up to 36 months and up to 3 initial months



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD              24
without payment of principal and interest, that would be capitalized). Payments will be in fixed installments, in US dollars (i.e. the
borrower incurs any exchange rate risk if he works in another currency). If a borrower wishes to prepay, a small penalty apply on
account of the administrative work. The warrantor is fully liable in case of default by the principal.
The brochure, the loan application/agreement form are at the end of the Annex.
Probable businesses with loan financing
The loans to traders (to stock materials, goods, etc.) and small manufacturers (eg. for timber for furniture makers, materials
for weaving, etc.) will not be discussed separately as they would be pretty standard. Below are more unusual projects expected to
be proposed:
Loans for buying buses and trucks
Provision of essential public transport services is a priority, as currently the supply is minimum. Few vehicles are available.
The project allows loans for the procurement of trucks and buses, to be paid by Timorese transporters on an installment basis. The
interested parties would have to submit an application for a loan for a vehicle at one of the banks operating in Timor, and specify
the basic type, specifics of the transport service to be provided, estimated cost, his experience (prior transport business would have
priority), etc.. The applicants also have to submit information as that listed below for other loans. The persons having an
application approved, can then concrete the purchase knowing that the loan will be available, and the loan agreement will be
signed for the final amount by BNU and transporters. BNU would pay directly the vehicle supplier. Insurance against major loss
will be required for the period of loan repayment. Deeds or titles would remain in BNU until the vehicle is fully paid.
Buyers may identify their own vehicle; or traders may provide the facilitation/import service; or it could be desirable to
procure vehicles on a bulk basis rather than one by one by different loan recipients. Some 60 buses and 60 trucks could be
purchased in a first round, and if justified, a second round could be undertaken. By purchasing in bulk, the vehicle suppliers would
have to agree to set up a service office in Dili (that can be a Timorese business with a license), not necessarily to stock spare parts
in Dili, but to ensure that orders can be placed promptly and delivery take place in Dili within 2-3 days of the order. The winning
supplier would also have to offer to train.. Timorese mechanics, as part of the contract, so that Timorese mechanics become
familiar with the vehicle. Another advantage would be some standardization in the fleet, and thus minimization of the spare part
types and inventories needed. It is said that good, 1-2 year old second hand vehicles are available in Australia and Singapore, at
much lower cost than new vehicles, and even second hand vehicles could be purchased in bulk. However, this may not be
practical currently, and the best generic way will be researched during project preparation.
It is also possible that forming transport cooperatives would be a good solution to reduce fixed costs, improve the service of
mechanics, garage, etc., but this would require more time so the option is left for project implementation, if the transporters are
interested. An objective could be to provide loans to small groups or firms that would buy a 5-10 ton truck or a small bus, use it
for public transport at competitive rates, and pay back the loan and interest at commercial rates. It could be desirable to from
transport cooperatives, with owner-operators, but forming such cooperatives up front would take a longer time than providing
loans for single vehicles. Owner operators may increase the potential for competition in the market, but loan recipients could also
be assisted to group in cooperatives later.
Small public transport cooperatives are shown to be efficient, with up to 10 members, each of whom would be the owner of
one vehicle but together would run the company, would share routes and schedules, administration facilities, repair facilities and
mechanics, etc. If cooperatives were to be formed, interested parties could have to show they are willing to form a commercial
"company", specify the responsibilities of each party, what happens in case of default in payment by one member, indicate their
plans for operation and maintenance, planned fares, expected repair facilities and mechanics, etc. and present this in the request to
obtain a loan from the Grant. Cooperatives would provide more guarantees than individuals. The cooperative would be liable for
the repayment of the cost of buses, all owners jointly responsible for all payments on vehicles; should the cooperative members
break with the agreed provisions, they would also be liable to lose the license, and the vehicles could be sold to another firm. A
lender would have to deal with only a few firms instead of many individuals. It is likely that forming such groups will need help.
Loans for business service centers
Private traders and other business cannot each afford to have telephone, faxes etc but need these available close by and
would pay a competitive rate for such services. The Grant can provide small loans to businessmen in each district capital, to install
serviced offices providing electronic communications, fax (to send and receive faxes), phone, print, internet access, etc. with



25            East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
operators at the shop. They would also have the Yellow Pages of several foreign cities, where procurement may be of interest to
Timorese, so contacts/enquiries about imports can be started by fax. Businessmen may decide to provide more complete services.
Businessmen interested in setting up business centers, would have to submit proposals for a loan from the Grant, and the
ones proposing the lowest borrowing amount and the best rates to the public users for a given quality of service, already having
office space or plans for it, etc. would have the loan approved. The equipment could be purchased by each "winning"
businessman, or if there is estimated to be advantages in bulk supply, especially for service and repairs of equipment, procurement
can be by a procurement unit, if the winners so choose. Timorese could also envisage getting a "license" from a foreign business
center operator, in which case that foreign firm could also provide capital.
The equipment supplier, in the case of a general procurement, would have to agree to install a service office at least in Dili,
provide service contracts, and also provide an operators to train Timorese employed in the business centers.
The winning businessmen who get a loan, would have to repay the loan, per agreed schedule; they would also have an
implementation agreement as under the other subprojects, and in case of default, the BNU would repossess the equipment and if
need be, apply further sanctions. The title of the equipment would remain in BNU's custody until the loan is repaid. The
businessmen can repay the loan faster but a penalty will apply as for the general case. A warrantor will also be required as in the
general case.
Guestrooms/guesthouses/small hotels
Small loans can be given to families to install/repair one or 2 rooms to rent out. Also, businessmen could propose
development or rehabilitation of smaller hotels/guesthouses; this could require more than the ceiling of $25,000 per loan (not a
problem with larger loans; or the balance would have to be provided by the applicant). There would be a cross screening wherever
there is more than one group interested in a larger investment in any one district capital, taking into account the probable demand
for each. Owners interested in a loan, would need to submit an application, with specific information on number of rooms,
expected standard of facilities, cost of works, self financing possible for rehabilitation, amount needed to borrow, expected
monthly expenditures to operate the hotel, proposed room rental price, amount expected can be paid per month in repayment of
loan_all part of the standard application.
Project Component 2 - US$0.27 million
Land and Property Administration study. The uncertainty and lack of public confidence in regards to land and property
registration in East Timor may lead to social disruption by conflicting claims to land, and may be a constraint to establishment of
businesses and services. The United Nations Center for Human Settlements will assist the Land and Property Comrnission within
UNTAET, towards (a) restoring institutional capacity to provide the essential components of a formal land registration system; (b)
developing national policies and procedures for the effective resolution of property disputes, (c) developing an interim building
policy for the allocation of public and abandoned land which maximizes the rehabilitation of the existing building environment.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.39 million
Services. This component will cover
a) the cost of the PMU staff and operations, including hiring of an East Timorese for environmental reviews and enforcement
of standards under the project;
b) preparation of future programs, such as
Simple training programs. Entrepreneurs and staff need training in computer use, in accounting, in English, in
bidding procedures, in quarantine regulations, etc. It is desired to also train East Timorese trainers. Secondments
may be sought, foreign companies willing to take apprentices. All the borrowers under the project would be
required to attend some training in basic accounting.
A program of grants to district capitals to support businesses. This may result in the establishment of chambers of
commerce, trucking terminals, etc.
c) short term consultants/experts as may be found needed (e.g. for trucking cooperatives, etc.)



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD       26
PUBLIC NOTICE
Attention East Timorese Women and Men
Small Loans Available for Good Business Ideas
Banco Nacional Ultramarino has US$4 million     0      Expected sales, income, and funds available to
available for loans in East Timor. Each District has an  repay the loan.
equal share; if this is not used within 3 months, another  0  Relevant experience (if any) and knowledge.
district with requests may use the funds.            0      References and ability to guarantee the loan.
0     Number of workers.
Eligibility for Loans                                0      Guarantors; equipment bought with loans will
*     Individuals or groups of women and/or men      remain as collateral until the loan is repaid.
with viable business plans or ideas that would be able  0   Community leaders will be asked to provide an
to repay the loan.                                   opinion on the applicants.
*     Applicants must be East Timorese and reside    0      In the case of imports, when the loan is
in East Timor.                                       approved in principle, another application form will be
*     Business ideas from all sectors, manufacturing,  completed showing the final loan amount including the
construction, transportation, trading, imports,      transport cost, and the bank account of the exporter for
agriculture processing, are eligible. Ineligible business  direct payment.
activities include purchase of land; trade of arms or       Applications can be submitted beginning April
drugs; activities with negative environmental impact.  5 to BNU, the paroquia principal, or the district
*      'Community members are encouraged to          administration office.
discuss the proposals.                                      Each applicant will receive a proof of
application with date and sequence number in each
About the Loan                                       district. Applications will be analyzed by BNU in the
*     Each loan can be between US$500 (about 3.5     order received.
million rupiah) and US$50,000 (about 350 million            BNU will decide on final loan approval. The
rupiah).                                             number of applications being processed will be posted
Loans must be repaid in full, with 10% interest  at the district adrninistration office. Public information
per year. An initial grace period may be approved,   also will indicate when funds are exhausted.
with the interest capitalized.
The loan repayment period can be from 3       Loan Approval
months to a maximum 36 months; repayment will be in         BNU will let all applicants know if a loan has
equal monthly installments.                          been approved or not.
If approved, loan agreements must be signed
How to Apply for a Loan                              by the applicants and guarantors within 5 working
During March and April, BNU representatives   days.
will visit district capitals to provide further information  Funds will be available to successful
and application forms, and assist in filling out the  applicants according to the loan agreement; foreign
forms. (See location and date details below.)        suppliers may be paid directly.
Application forms also will be available at the paroquia    Strict penalties will apply for failure to repay.
principal and the district administration office as of  Names of defaulting borrowers and guarantors will
April 5, 2000.                                       also be posted in district offices. Those who repay
The application form requires:                promptly would be eligible for a second loan.
0     Applicants identification
0     Business description and loan amount
requested.
NOTE:
Many applicants, including those with strong business plans, may not receive loans at this stage because of
limited funds. Additional funding may become available depending on demand and performance. Repayments will be
used to provide new loans.
The meeting to discuss business ideas of genuinely interested parties, provide application forms and their
explanation will be held at:
Location:                                             Day, time



27           East Timnor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
_....... . ... ...._
._L _'4oans                                                                 2.00           2.00           4.00
Land achninistration study                                                  0.00           0.27           0.27
Consultant Services                                                         0.20           0.19           0.39
Total Baseline Cost                                                         2.20           2.46           4.66
Physical Contingencies                                                      0.10          0.09           0.19
Price Contingencies                                                         0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs        2.30           2.55           4.85
Total Financing Required         2.30           2.55           4.85



EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
Annex 5, Financial Analysis                                                                                                          C
CD
BacoNaioalU/tramarino 
CRtDITO                                 ~~~~~~~~~TAXA BNU~=>  9.5%   Recovering percentag,   80.0%        Loan period 2 ANOS
May-0    Jun-0    Ju-00   Ag-00 Sep-00      Odt-00   Nov-00    Dec-00    Jan-01   Feb-01       Mar-01     Apr-01  May-01   Jun-01   Jul-01    Aug-01    Sep-01    Oct-01
Total CUstos USD                                    22,717   22.717   22.717   22.717       22,717        22.717   22,717     22,717    22,717   22,717      22.717     22.717   13.867   13,967   13,967    13,967    13,967    13.967
Empr6stimos,                                     1.000,000 1,000,000 1.000,000 1,000.000
Soma dos recebimentos               80.0%                                        43,307     90,734       130.100  173,461    173,407   173.467  173.467    173,467    173.467  173,407  173,467  173,467   173,467   173,467   173,467
% p/ SNU==n>                        9.5%                                         4,120      8,240         12,300    16,470    10.479    10,470   16,470      10,470     16,479   16.479   16,479   16,479    16,479    16.479    16,479
Reep0icag0o                                                                                              120,000  120,000    142,470   156,988  156.988    156,906    156.988  166,080  156,988 156,960   156,988   156.988
Seldo                                                                            39,247     78.494        -2,259   36,908     14,518         0        0           0          0       0        0        0         0         0   156,988
Some dos recebirmenlos             8000%                                                                                                 5,202   10.405      17,618     24.842   32,065   39,208   46,511    53,734    60,958    60,181
% p/ BNU====   9.5%                                                                                                   404      988       1,074      2.360    3.046    3,732    4.419    5,105     5.791      6.477
ReaplicagAo 2                                                                                                                                                           30.069  22,402   29,019   35,556    42.093    40,030    55,167
Seldo                                                                                                                                    4.708    9.416      15.945     -7,588   6.537    6.537   6.537      6,537      6,537     6,537
Soma dos recebimenlos               80.0%114                                                                                                                                                                 206        320       475
% p/ 8N ===o  9.5%                                                                                                                                                             100        183       305       448
Saldo
Saldo Acumulado
Soma das reaplicag8esa efecuadas                 1,000,000 1,000,00  1,000,00  1.000,000         0       120.000   120,000    142,470   156.980  156.988    156,988    187,057  179,470  186,007  192.544   199.081   205.018    55,167
Soma dos proveito de 1.5%                           15,000    15.000    15.000    15,000         0         1.000     1.800     2.137      2,355    2.355      2,355      2.806    2.692    2,790    2,888    2.986      3,084       827
Some dos proviltos s/ pag.          80.0%                0        0         0    4.120       8,240        12,360   16.479     16.479    16,974   17.468      18.153     10,839   10,526   20,212   21,006    21,777    22,575    23,408
Total dos Proveltos                                 15.000    1 5.000    15,000   '19,'120   8.240        14.160   '19.279     18.6`10    19,328   19,823    20.508     21.645   22,218   23,002   23,895    24.763    25.660    24,232
Total dos Custos                                    22,717    22,717   22,717   22.717      22,717        22,717   22,717     22.717    22.717   22.717      22.717     22,717   13,967   13.067   13.067    13,907    13,967    130967
SALDO                                             -7,717  -7,717  -7.717  -3,597  -14,477               -8,557  -4,438   -4,101   -3,389  -2,894    -2,209    -1,072  8,251  9,035  9.928  10,796  11,693  10,265



Nov-01  'D0et    Jan-02    Feb-02    Mar-02    Apr-02   May-02   Jun-02    Jul-02   Aug-02   Sep-02   Oct-02   Nov42   Dec-02   Jan-03   Feb-03   Mar-03    Apr-03   May-03              Jun-03     Jul-03     Aug-03   SOMA
13,967    13,9t67,   13,967    13,967    13,967    13067   13,967   13,967   13,987   13,967   13,067   13,967   13.967   13.967   13.967   13,967   13,967    13,967    13,967          13,967     13.967     13.967    663,680
0
173,467   173,467i  173,467   173.467   173,467   173,467   130,100   86,734   43,367         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0          0          0          0  3,642,814
0
16,479g   16.479,   16,479    16,479    16,479    16,479   12,360    8,240    4.120          0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0          0          0           0    346,067
0
1,795,361
0
156,9888  156,988   156.988   156,988   156,988   156,988   117,741   78,494   39,247         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0                                    1,501,385
75,404:   82,627-  28,627    82,627    82,627    82,627   82,627   82,627   82.627   82,627   82,627   77,425   72,222   65,009   57.786   50,562   43.339   36,116   28,893             21,670     14,446      7,223   1.735,171
j                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
7,163    7,850      7,850     7,850     7,850     7,850     7,850    7,850    7,850    7,850    7,850    7,355    6,861       6,176    5,490    4,803    4,117      3,431     2,745      2,059      1,372       686    164,841
0
61,704    88.241                                                                                                                                                                                                         392,956
0
6,537    8,537;   74,778    74,778    74,778    74,778   74,778   74,778   74.778   74,778   74,778   70,069   65,361   58,833   52,296   45.759   39,222   32,685   26,146             19,611     13,074      6,537   1,177,372
6,671:    8,667i   11,158    13.960    17,224    17,224    17,224   17,224   17,224   17,224   17,224   17,224   17.224   17,224   17,224   17,224   17,224    17,224    17,224         17,224     17,224     17,224    361,482
0
624       823,    1,080     1,326      1,636     1,636    1,636    1,636     1,636     1,636    1,636    1,636    1,636    1,636    1,636    1,636    1,636       1,636     1,636      18638      1,636      1,636     34,341
5,947,   -t,4    10,D98    12,634    15,588    15,58S      15,588   15,588   15,588   15,588   15,588   15,588   15,588M     15,588   15,588   15,588   15,586    15,588    15, 588 15,588   15,5     88      15,588    317,10
5,947    1S,701t   23,888    36,522    52,110    67,698   63,285   98,873  114,461   130,049  145,636  161,224  176,812  192.399  207,987  223,575  239,163   254,750   270.338    285.926    301,513    317,101   3,403,048
-  A                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
61,704 -6,A41            0         0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        D         0        0         0        0           0         0              6.1b8,319
926     1,024         0         0         0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0          0          0          0     92,825
24267e  2M,152    25,389    25,655    25,965    25,965   21,845   17,726    13,606    9,486    9,486    8,992    8,497    7,812    7,126    6,440    5,754    8,067    4,381              3,695      3,009      2,322    545,249
?   .                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
25,193'  26,176    25,389    25,655    25,965    25,965   21,845   17,726    13,606    9,486    9,486    8,992    8,497    7,612    7,126    6,440    5,754          5.067    4,381       3,695      3.009      2,322    638,074
13,967  t18,987,   13,967    13,967    13,967    13,967    13,967   13,967    13,967   13,967   13,967   13,967   13,967    13.967   13,967   13,967   13,967    13,967   13,967        13,967     13,967     13,967    663,680
11,226i-12,209  11,422  11,688  11,998  11,998   7,878   3,759    -361  -4,481  -4,481  -4,975  -5,470  -6,155  -6,841  -7,527  -8,213  -8,900  -9,586  -10,272  -10,958  -11,645  -25,606



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD           30
EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement will be in line with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Employment of
consultants and the format for consultant contracts will be based on the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank borrowers" of January 1997, as revised September 1997 and January 1999.
Procurement under loans will be done by the borrowers themselves; standard commercial practices that will be
followed by borrowers are acceptable to IDA. The bulk of the funds may be used to procure goods, mostly imports,
but given the ceiling on loans, of $50,000, no ICB nor NCB is involved. Recipients of loans are expected to follow
standard commercial practices and to seek the best evaluated price, as this is in their own interest. Nevertheless, BNU
will be required to check on the reasonableness of prices quoted in the loan applications, as it should be able to do by
comparing across loan applications.
BNU is the only commercial bank able to manage the loan program, and is interested in doing it at a competitive
cost. Thus BNU has entered into a Project Agreement with IDA. BNUJ will also have a contract with UNTAET for the
start up period; another contract may be entered into after the Grant is fully disbursed.
The project will strengthen the PMU. Staff/consultants for the Project Management Unit, expected to be East
Timorese, will be hired following a screening of candidates. The team leader would be hired first, under a contract
with UNTAET. Then other staff/consultants may be hired by the team leader, selected based on quality (QBS)
following an IDA practice. However, due to the paucity of expertise in East Timor, it may be difficult obtaining
expressions of interest.
Because of the above, it is not meaningful to draft a project procurement plan.
Also, there is no procurement agency at the moment to assess.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
0.00            0.00                  0.85
(0.00)          (0.00)          1.00)        (0.00)          (1.00)
MGscellaneous                     0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00            3.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         3.00)         (0.00)          (3.00)
Services                          0.00            0.00           0.85          0.00            0.85
(0.00)          (0.00)         0.85)         (0.00)          (0.85)
Miscellaneous                     0.00            O .00          O .00         O .00           O .00
(0.00)          (O.00)         (0.00)        (O.00)          (O.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           4.85          0.00            4.85
(0 .00)         (0.00)         (4.85)        (0.00)          (4.85)
1/       Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies
2/       Includes civil works and goods expected to be procured by the borrowers following commercial practices,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.



31           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms                    0.00       0.36       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.36
(0.00)     (0.36)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.36)
B. Individuals              0.00       0.29       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.29
_  (0.00)      (0.29)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.29)
Total    0.00        0.65       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.65
_____ __  (0.00)   (0.65)    (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.65)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                                                 l
2. Goods 
3. Services                               50/100                     QBS              =0.6
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                              600,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits)
Trhe "average" assessment is due to that most of the procurement will be done by borrowers; and for technical
assistance, the PMU will have support from UNTAET and consultants, and most contracts will be subject to prior
review.
Disbursements
Financial Management
Background. The grant is to help start economic activities in the private sector in East Timor. Institutions in
both the public and private sector are at best at an early stage of development. Project disbursements will be channeled



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD       32
through the only private bank (BNU) currently with retail operations in East Timor. Therefore, a traditional financial
management assessment, as required by Bank policies, is not possible. However, the project will incorporate adequate
safeguards to ensure that the funds are spent for the purposes intended. The applicable financial management and
disbursement arrangements are described below for each project component.
Loans. BNU will process loan applications in accordance with lending criteria agreed with IDA. Once a loan
agreement is signed, disbursements should normally be direct to the suppliers of goods and services as provided in the
loan agreement. The borrower will also be eligible to request disbursements depending on the provisions of the loan
agreement. The BNU should obtain supporting documentation (purchase order, shipping documents for imports,
supplier invoices) before making payments. In the event of cash payments for local suppliers, a receipt should be
obtained from the payee in addition to purchase orders and invoices. BNU will maintain an account for each loan,
recording all payments, interest and repayments (and any other charge applicable). All loan accounts, year end
statements and supporting documentation should be available for audit. Monthly financial report fornats are attached.
BNU shall also provide monthly to IDA, a report with a brief description of items procured under the loans and their
unit prices.
Service Fees. This will include the service fee to BNU, expert services/consultants, and some costs of the
Project Management Unit. BNU will make disbursements in accordance with contract provisions. Accounting records
and supporting documents should be available for audit.
Financial Reporting. BNU shall prepare monthly one page summaries and quarterly financial statements
summarizing disbursement by each of the Grant categories. BNU will also report on repayment of loans by
borrowers. The accounts will be maintained on a cash basis. An annual financial statement summarizing funds
received in the Special Account, disbursed and retained in Special Account will be prepared. The any change to the
forms agreed at appraisal shall be agreed by April 30, 2000.
Audit. An independent auditor, acceptable to IDA will be appointed by UNTAET to audit the accounts within 6
months of the end of the fiscal year. The first audit will cover the period from grant effectiveness to December 31,
2000. The terms of reference shall also be acceptable to IDA.
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
Land and Property Administration                       0.27                          100
Consultant Services                                   0.58                           100
Total Project Costs                                    4.85
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The PMU and BNU will submit statements of expenditures for some of their operational expenses under the
project. Consultants will also submit SOEs.
Special account:
UNTAET will establish a Special Account at BNU denominated in US dollars, with an initial deposit and an
authorized ceiling of $700,000. This amount, higher than the standard 10% of the grant/loan, was approved taking into
account that disbursements may be large up front, and the delays between a request for replenishment from Dill and
approval and transfer from Washington DC. The account will be managed by BNU, and replenished on a monthly
basis or when 20% of the authorized ceiling has been disbursed, whichever occurs first.



33            East Timor - Small Enterpnses Project PAD
EAST TIMOR
REPORTS AND FUNDS FLOW DIAGRAM
World Bank/TFET 
A         , r~~~B          B
BnSA (BNU)                              r
5 ..............              .................
:P    - UNTAET                    M                     T D
4 Agreem5                                                B
BNU
S C R E E N                          ............. .. ....................
1t  2    3                *
5es Ds
BORROWEn t
EXPORTER|
PRODUCER|
LOANS
BNU - Banco Nacional Ultramarino, Timor
PMU - Project Management UnitUUNTAET, Dili
1 - Initial request                             TFET: Trust Fund for East Timor
2 - Clarification needs                         UNTAET: Un Transitional Administration
3 - Final Application                           for East Timor
4 - Signed Agreement
5 - Disbursement
6 - Repayment
A - Advance and Replenishments
B - Reports



East Timnor - Small Enterprises Project PAD        34
Small Enterprises Project
Sources and Uses of Funds, US dollars
Month:        ---
In Month      Cumul. To end of month
Loan Program
Uses and Sources ofFunds
1. Loan disbursements
2. Loan repayments by borrowers
Outstanding loan balance (1.-2.)
BNU
Sources of Funds
1. From 1.5% fee
2. From 9.5% retention from borrower repayment
total
Uses of Funds
3. Salaries/wages
4. Operational expenses
5. Office rent
total
Net
Loan information
1. Loans approved
2. Average loan size
3. Number of loans approved #
4. Due repayments
principal
interest
5. Repayment/Due repayments (%)
6. Number of loans w/overdue repayments #
7. Overdue loans/number of loans (%)
Date prepared:
Notes:  Substantiating documents to be available for review by IDA, auditors and the PMU/INTAET.
(a) In case of insufficient repayment, the shortfall would be distributed proportionally to the due interest and principal



35          East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Small Enterprises Project
Management Information System
Summary list by Borrower
District:                                                    End of Month:
District Allocation for loans:
In Month     Cumul. To end of month
(all titles across the top of a page , but here shown in 3 steps..-)
Loan # Name of Borrower Gender Activity Loan amount Disbursements by BNU
$            Date in       $      Cumul.
month
Payments by Borrowers                   Due amounts          Shortfall
Date in      $    C'umulative     In month   Cumul.          In month  Cumul
month     __
Repayment period
Start date Final date
at Bottom: totals for the columns in dollars; for the other columns:
Total # loans  #W/#M  # loans w/late payments    balance of loans with late payment
Date prepared:                           Signed:



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD         36
Form for the Special Account replenishment requests
Small Enterprises Project
Statement of Expenditures, US dollars
Date:
Application #:
TF Grant:
Page: .. of.._
Payment during the period [dates of initial and final SOE submitted ]
Category: 1. Loans,
Item   BNU loan #  Total approved  Amount disbursed      Remarks               Amortization
(b)                                                      (c)                  from to  Instalm, $
Total                       xx
signature
Note: Supporting documentation for this SOE are retained at BNU Timor and will be made available for review upon request
(b) this simply refers to the line on the page
(c) such as 2nd payment
or alternative middle titles for,
Category: 2. Consultant services,
Item  Consultant name  Cons. City/Country         Contract      Amount paid  US$ equiv. Remarks
Currency Amount    in Curr.         charged
Pour memoire
In discussions, it was agreed:
a) BNU will authorize 4 signatories for disbursement requests
b) The original application forms WB HQ needs, can be mailed from Lisbon with information provided from Dili
electronically.



37           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     2
First Bank mission (identification)                                            02/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       03/15/2000                   03/09/2000
Negotiations                                      03/24/2000                   03/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     04/16/2000
Prepared by:
Frida Johansen, World Bank TTL; Tubal Goncalvez, BNU manager; Emilia Pires, Julio Alfaro CNRT representatives
Preparation assistance:
BNU staff, UNTAET staff
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Frida Johansen                           Principal economist, TTL
Karin Nordlander                         Senior counsel
Anthony Toft                             Senior counsel
Amnanda Carlier                          Private sector specialist
Desiree Green                            Private sector specialist
Anne Harrisson                           Porgram assistant
Jeffrey Lecksell                         Cartographer
Luiz Gazoni                              Procurement
Hung Kim Phung                           Disbursements
Final preparation schedule
by date       Agency
Public Notice                                 BNU
English version                3/13
Translations                   3/15
Printing ( xx copies?)         3/16
Distribution to districts      3/17-18, desirable, or
3/22 Wednesday, District Administrators could take back from Dili
Inform priests                 3/18; or 3/26 (Saturday, latest, by Distr. Admin)
Priests inform public          3/19, or 3/27 (Sunday service)
Loani Application Forms
Final form agreed              3/16           BNU/WB
Translation                    3/24           BNU
Printing                       3/27           BNU - x in Tetum, n Indonesian, z Portuguese
Distribution                   3/30-31 (Friday) BNU/facilitator teams for Districts 1-8
"Other" persons for Districts  9-12
Available in districts         4/1 (Saturday)



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD        38
Recruitment of Facilitators
Identify 5-8 facilitators     3/13          WB
Discussions with them         3/15          WB/BNU
Sign 1 month contracts        3/20          WB/individuals or NGO
(with project preparation funds)
Training                      3/22-27       BNU
Pay field allowance            3/27         WB
Motorcycle rentals            3/27          WB??
Project Manual                3/21          BNU
Project Implementation plan   3/21          BNU
Proposed reporting system     3/21          BNU
Meetings at district capitals  1 ST round                 2nd round
I Manatuto                    3/28-31 team 1              4/10-12
2 Viqueque                    id
3 Baucau                      3/28-31 team2               id
4 Los Palos                   id
5 Ainaro                      3/28-31 team 3              id
6 Same                        id
7 Suai                        3/28-31 team 4              id
8 Maliana                     id
9 Liquica                     4/3-6  team 1               4/17-19
10 Aileu                      id
11 Dili                       4/3-6  teams 2, 3           id
12 Oecussi                    4/3-6  team 4               id
1 BNU staff +1 facilitator--facilitators
only
Loans
Applications, starting        4/5           entrepreneurs
Approvals, starting           4/20          BNU
Disbursements, starting       4/28          BNU
Consultants
PMU, TORs                     3/20          UNTAET
Contract                 4/5           UJNTAET
Leader in place          4/10
Other staff              5/1
BNU fees (for facilitators, for staff, etc.)  BNU
Other studies:
UNCHS                                     PMU
Training programs
Grant program
WB procedures
Disbursement seminar          3/21-22       WB
Grant negotiations            3/27-28       BNUIUNTAET/WB
Opening SA                    4/10          BNU
Transfer of funds to SA       4/17          WB



39           East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
EAST TIMOR: Small Enterprises Project
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Manual
B. Other
Minutes from meetings with other agencies, on grant programs
Scenarios for BNU cash flow
*Including electronic files



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD             40
Annex 9                                         RNU
Banco Nacional Ulrramarmo
LOAN TO FINANCE
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED
ENTREPRENEURS AND COMPANIES
Technical:                                                                  C.A.E.
*  Number of workers to be employed on the
project
*  Investment by worker employed
*  Own financial resources to be applied
*  Cash flow, deduced of the interest of the loan
*  Financial availability to pay the instalments of
the loan
*  Payback period
*  Profitability rate of the project
*  Company profitability rate
*  Solvability rate
Commercial:
Supervisor's Opinion
DATE:    /      I         Signature:
Aproval                                     App lication No.
l        I Entry date:
DATE:   I      I        Signature:                                   District Capital:
This Loan program  is under supervision  of World Bank and is financed by the East
Timor Trust Fund, to which Portugal is a large contributor.



41                          East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
APPLICATION FOR ACCESS TO CREDIT
1. Identification and Economic Data of the I Sl Applicant1Only Applicant
Name:                                                                                          Sex:   F.   M
iAddress:                                                            District:          ITele hone:
[|Age   ] Na| _onality: Timorese   _ Other:                     Place of Birth:
Profession:                                                  ldentfication Card:        N".             Tvpe:
Own goods:   [Own house =   Vehicles:    [Land:              Others:      Which ones:
Do   receeanyfixedsalar?  INo: I    Y es   3   IHow much?
Do you receiveanyretrernent pse? lNo: I I   Yes: I  Amount?
Haveyousomeotherincome?   INo: I     Yes          RWhich?                                 I IAmount:
Monthly expenses with: |Dwelling:                 IVehicles:                   Other expenses:
Identification and Economic Data from the Other Applicants (Described in the attachment)
Name:                                                      Name:
Name:                                                      Name:
Nome:                                                      Nome:
Nome:                                                      Nome:
Name:      _ _              _                              Nome:   _
2. Declaration
I / We declare that all the enclosed information is correct. I further declare that I have not defaulted on any loan, including any from other
commercial banks, within the last five (5) years. II We authorise the BNU to confirm the above details, as well as to obtain data that i
thinks necessary. Therefore I / we undersign this application on the space reserve for this purpose.                   I
I declare that I have always fulfilled my obligations towards all banks.
3. Amount and duration
iI We request the granfing of a loan of USDS:                         to be utlised: Immediatel and fully, or
By documented payment to the suplier, or
As perLthe pmoct scheme
The utilised capital shall be repaid, after the period of grace of (*) ......... months, in ..... monthly and equal
instalments of principall and interest plus the charges due, through my account No.              1211/
4. Guarantees and Guarantors
Guarantees
]  Machines:                                                F   Land:
u   Premises:                                           !        Equipment:
IVehicles:                                           I       Others:
n  IGoods:I
IGuarantors
5. Opinion of the local entity:
Name of the endty:
Name of the responsible for the opinion:
Opinion:
This project is of interest to the community?   Yes:       No:        Airead exist?      Yes:       No:
The applicant(s) (is) are honest?               Yes:       No:        And hardworking?    Yes:      No:
nhe appticant(s) (has) have pe manent residence ems     - unit      |Are they goingt    Le J    No:
in that community? (     h    p      r          Y          N          stay there? t   to  Y         No
The project is going to be placed in a locaton  Yes:       No:        If not, are  they  Yes:       No:
,belonging to the applicant?                                          going to rent it? |
I Does (he) they deserved to be supported?      Yes:        NO
I declare that all the above-given information are correct and have been given free of charge and without any coercion
Signature:
Date:     /



East Tirnor - Small Enterprises Project PAD                        42
6. Technical File of the Project
Location:
Descnption of the Project, including:
Description of the products and services
How and where the product will be sold and how the business will attract customers
Existing or potential customers
Informaton on existing and potental competitors
How the business will be organized, and the key people involved
Other relevant information, induding environmental impact                                  Environmental    Yes    No
imact                   I       i
Qrevious or present experience:
Starting date of the investment                               Date of its conclusion:
Amount to be invested:                           Own financial resources to be applied:
Description of own goods to apply on the project
Labours to be employed on the project:            1  Year                     2nd Year                   3rd Year
Total number of workers                                             i                                                      i
Relatives                     -                            .
Non-relatives                 I                            .                          '        _l
Type/Function   '                                                                              ' _
__________________________ _                      15stYear                   2"d Year                   3rd Year
A Income expected:
Cost of goods sold/produced:          _                            _    _ _       _i
Personnel costs:                      _                            _    _ _       _ _
B Supplies and services of third parties:  .                        ._._                                              _
Other costs or charges:             ._'i                                                              _        _
C Cashflow: (A-B)                      .                            i                            _
D Instalment of the loan:              .                             _                          _
E lFunds available:(C-D)                _                                                                                  j
7. Technical File of Companyllndividual Entrepreneur
[Partners:
Description of acivity:
[Date of inco22ration:
Assets:                                                      ULiabilities:
Cash + Deposits:                                              Suppliers:
Stocks                                                        Bank loans:
Third parties debts:                                          Other debts to third parties:
Net fixed assets:
Results:                                                     IShare Capital:
Labour:                                          At present                   In 1 year                 In 2years
Total number of workers                 ,                             _                          _
Relatives                     -                            I
Non relatives                   _                          l                            __
Type/Function 7Commercial:               _                          ,                            _
Industrial:
Administrative:         _                                              .
Management
Date:      /I I                                                          Place
The Applicant(s)



43                      East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
THE UNDERSIGNED AGREE TO THE GRANTING OF A LOAN UNDER THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS:
8. General Conditions
8.1 Purpose
The applicant(s) undertakels to deliver to Banco Nacional Ultramarino (hereinafter named the 'Bank") a document giving
evidence of the utilisation of the funds borrowed, in accordance with the purpose mentioned in point 6. 'Technical File of
the Project".
8.2 Utilisation of the loan
8.2.1. The Bank agrees in with the applicant to give a loan of in US dollars
The funds are made available in accordance with what is mentioned in point 3., by crediting of the demand deposit
account referred to in that point. No charges will be applied on the opening of this account.
The applicant deciares that he is aware of the availability of the funds mentioned in point 3, and undertakes to advise the
Bank, at least five days in advance, of the utilisation of each one of the trenches, with exception of the first one, which will
be utilised at the time the credit is approved. Direct payment to the exporter will be done without any charge or
commission from the Bank.
8.2.2. After the capital lent is credited, a 1.5% commission will be charged to cover administrative and credit management
costs, which will be financed along with the loan.
.3. Interest
8.3.1. The nominal interest rate to be applied will be 10% per annum.
8.3.2. The interest will be assessed on the principal due, as from the opening date of the loan account up to the full
settlement of same.
8.3.3. Interest will be reckoned for the period of grace, if there is one, and such interest will be capitalised and included in
the loan repayment scheme.
8.3.4. During the repayment period, interest will be assessed in accordance with the calculation method used for fixed
incomes and will be paid with the repayments of principal mentioned in point 3 (regular repayments of principal and
interest).
8.4. Repayment
8.4.1. The loan will be repaid under the conditions established in point 3, the first instalment maturing one
month/quarter/half year (-) after the utilisation of the funds, and the following ones, respectively, on the same dates of the
subsequent periods.
The applicant undertakes to maintain sufficient funds in the indicated demand deposit account for the repayment of
interest and principal on the dates agreed upon.
8.5. Guarantees
8.5.1. In guarantee of the responsibilities referred to in/or arising from this contract, the applicant gives as security the
goods and rights mentoned in point 4. These will be heid by the debtor, who undertakes to hold them, free of charge, and
is considered as holding them as another's property.
8.5.2. Penalties for theft will be imposed on the debtor(s) if he/they alienate(s), modify/modifies, destroy(s) or make(s)
disappear, without the Bank's written authorisation, the good(s) or right(s) given as a guarantee, as well as if he/they
give(s) them again as guarantee without expressly mentioning, in the new contract, the existence of previous
guarantee(s), which, in any case, have preference rights by order of dates.
If the goods belong to a company, the provisions of the above-mentioned paragraph shall apply to the company's
partners.
8.5.3. The goods given as a guarantee, the risks of which are undertaken by the debtor(s), may successively be
transferred to a place different from the one where they are at present, and may be replaced by other goods of the same
kind and vaiue, but only through a previous written authorisation from the Bank, and the debtor(s) offering the guarantee
must replace, under the same terms, the goods that for any reason have deteriorated or disappeared.
8.6. Default
8.6.1.- In case of default in the punctual repayment of any instalment, the Bank may consider all its credit due, and on all
debited amount can apply a penalty on interest rate up to its liquidation of 4%.
8.6.2.A1I costs that the Bank as to assume to secure or reimbursement of its credit, costs that must be paid against the
document presented by the Bank and that for all effects will be as part of this contracL
8.6.3. The Applicants and the Guarantors besides being jointly and severally responsible for the payment oI.the loan,
incur the penalty of not being eligible for any other credit contract established in East Timor.
8.6.4. The borrowers and the guarantors recognise that their names will be posted in district offices in case of default
Date,      /       I
Applicants                         Guarantors                           Bank
Testimonies
Notes () If there is no period of grace, write zers.
(') Cross out what does not app)y.



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD                             44
Identification and Economic Data Other Applicants or Guarantors
Name:                                                                                                   Sex:   F.       M
|Address:                                                                 District:            ITelephone:
e     INatinalit : imorese           i  lOther:                       Place of Birth:
Profession:                                                        Identification Card:        IN'.              IYe:
|Own  qoods:    lOwn house:  I I Vehicles:         Land:    I I   thers:       Whch ones:
Oo you receive any fixed salary?   No:    Yes:       | How much?
Do you receve any rermentpension?  No:  |   Y  E ]  |Amount?
Haveyousorreotherincome?    INo:        Yes:       l Which?                                         fA-Im     Iii    i-      X !
|Monthl expenses with: Owelling:                       IVehides:                    _Other expenses:
Identification and Economic Data Other Applicants or Guarantors
iName:                                                                                                  Sex:   F.       M
Address:                                                                  District:            iTelephone:
Fi: I {Nationalit: Timorese          |Other:                          Place of Birth:
Profession:                                                        |Identfication Card:        IN".               Type:
|Owngoods:  | yOwn house            Vehicdes:        and: [|Others|    Which ones:
DO you reerve any fexed salary?   No :   Yes         IHow much?           jI
Do you rceive any rbnreentpension? INo: I   Yes  i    ArTAount?
Have you someotherincome?    INO: i      O es    Li  Which?|
iMonthlvexpenses with: Dwellin :                       Vehides:                       IOther expenses:
Identification and Economic Data Other Applicants or Guarantors
IName:                                                                                                  Sex:   F.       M
[Address:                                                                  District:             Tele hone:
jAge: 1  J |Nationality: Timorese    |  |Other:                       Place of Birth:
Profession:                                                        Identification Card:         IN".             !Te:
Own  oods        Ownhous  e         Vehicles:   Land          I    Others       Whichones:
D     e  iea                              es         Ihow much? 
EobyounieiveanyretrementpensioanNo: 1 I    Yes:     A|rrount?
HaVeyousomeot noerrnCcrne?    INo:  I L   Yes:   L   Whi?                         .Amount|
IMonthly expenses with: IDwelling:                     IVehicles:                      |Other expenses:
Identification and Economic Data Other Applicants or Guarantors
iName:                                                                                                  Sex:   F.       M
Address:                                                                  District:            iTelephone:
tAgLi   Nationality: Timorese       I  lOther:                      XPiace of Birth:
|Profession:                                                        Ildentification Card:       N0.               T  e:
|Own goods:     |Own house:   |||Vehicdes: |||                |    Others: | Which ones:
Lo90t    ieanyfixedsabgY?    |NO    I 1]  Yes    LO l      much?                  -Ii
ID. YOU receive any retiremen y       1eN ]   Yes    Li Amount?                                      A
tHaVeiyoucSOme     ome?     NO      Li  Ye      O No:hic?                                         I |A  iUhic;
|Monthlyexpenseswith: IDwelling:                       IVehicles:                      1Other expenses:
Identification and Economic Data Other Applicants or Guarantors
iName:                                                                                                  Sex:   F.       M
|Address:                                                                  District-             Fetehone:
jAge   I I I Nationality: Timorese    I  lOther:                      Place of Birth:
Profession:                                                        ldentification Card:         NO.               Type:
Own goods: _||Own house:         ||Vehicles: |||Land:    | |Others: L                Which ones:
0o you receive any ixed salary?   No: I  Ye:       LHOW much?                          I
DOyoureceiveanyrebrmenntPernsion?  No:  Y:   L   Amount?
[Haveyousomneother income?   No:                     l Yes    L   Which?                            [|Amount: 
|Monthly expenses with:  Dwelling:                      Vehicles:                      Other expenses:



45                         East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD
BNU
Banco Nacaonal Ultrarwrnno
RECEIPT OF LOAN APPLICATION
We have received from                                                              an applicabon form:
)Application numberl
.Entry date
District Caoital
Banco Nacional Ultramarino
Signature
Name of BNU Representative                                            (write legibly)
Notices will be posted at the District Administration Office with the Application number being considered, and the numbers of
appiications approved or rejected.
RNU
Banco Nacionai Ultrarnanrc
RECEIPT OF LOAN APPLICATION
We have received from                                                              an application form:
Applicabon numberi
n   date
istrict Caoital
Banco Nacional Ultramarino
Signature
Name of BNU Representative                                            (write legibly)
Notces will be posted at the District Administration Office with the Application number being considered, and the numbers of
applications approved or rejected.



East Timor - Small Enterprises Project PAD       46
Annex 10
Example of a Generic Environmental Review (ER) Checklist
Proposed
Type of Expected lmpact       Description of Impact        Mitigation Measure
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
Increased soil erosion?
Increased sediment load into
receiving waters?
Likely contamination of
surface or subsurface waters?
Excessive dust or noise during
construction?
BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONIENT
Removal or disturbance of
natural vegetation?
Subproject in core or buffer
area of a protected area?
Disruption or disturbance of
animals or any locally
important animal habitat?
SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT
Aesthetic degradation of a
landscape?
Degradation or disturbance of
an historical or cultural site?
Transport or use of toxic
substances that poses a risk to
human health?
Involuntary displacement of
individuals or families?
Economic losses to individuals
or families because of the
subproject?



lBRS 30860
C                                         0~~      -                                      ATo'oo'~  S2a IN   0 wtA   '> 0TT/OO   woo
Wii
Ak   UI0r'i(  Rotar                                                                                      86
IsIoredV                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oso Pal.or  so
fm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOJP  lelseo
INDONi>SIA.c  .                                  <A                      Strait of  Wetor                         Woleoluieron                       Moo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Q                          sr     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToiSACL
risicand    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       AIO ~ToCe                                                                                     000
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v                                                               AoAoAW
AILEU   I    /  -  I            1,      ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coie
flK                .'                                                                                   thee  Io4ATTt   >o..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
alia  \MA Uf~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'oho>    UO 
2>                       . .:,>2.; nle i  IoIo   ole                kRA?p./IJ-              ( [ovouuEooty00,
HodM e    %~Trw
\yor.ioo.~~o)  ~ ViuEAST CIMOR
H.14ALV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Lt
$e~~~~cw  Sea~~~~~~~~      BMALONT RP ISS HO EC
LkVt cc4                                                            EAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OET CTIMOR
Tam  r.r  Sea                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
5!~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~                      C ~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS AND VILlAGES
INDO  S    A                                                                               '      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT SEATS
I N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!D  0  S    A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~*                          QADINISTRATUVE CENTER
----DISTRICT &OTINDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
10  Jo  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    See                 .                                                                     SiC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  ~ Is 20 253000WT
Ieleosd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0at
.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17
APRIL 2000



