Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF-023631
Trust Fund for East Timor
Project Agreement
(Small Enterprises Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor 
and
BANCO NACIONAL ULTRAMARINO
Dated  April 11, 2000
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF-023631
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 2000, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor and BANCO 
NACIONAL ULTRAMARINO (BNU).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, as amended by Resolutions No. 
99-8/1 and No. IDA99-5/1, the Executive Directors established the Trust Fund for East 
Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency reconstruction and recovery program in East 
Timor and appointed the Association as trustee of the TFET;
(B) by the Trust Fund for East Timor Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (the Recipient) 
and the Association, acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor (the Trustee), 
the Trustee has agreed to make available to the Recipient the amount of four million 
eight hundred and fifty thousand United Stated Dollars, on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Grant Agreement, but only on condition that BNU agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Trustee as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS BNU, in consideration of the Trustee’s entering into the Grant Agreement 
with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Grant, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of  BNU
Section 2.01. (a) BNU declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and 
personnel, and in accordance with its Statutes.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Trustee and BNU shall otherwise agree, BNU shall carry out Part A of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) BNU undertakes that, unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, 
Loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
BNU shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-Project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Trustee and of BNU; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of  Part A of the 
Project.
Section 2.03. BNU shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 8.03, 
8.04, 8.05, 8.06, 8.07 and 8.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) BNU shall, at the request of the Trustee, exchange views with 
the Trustee with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Grant.
(b)
BNU shall promptly inform the Trustee of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant, or the performance by BNU of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  BNU shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of Part A of the Project and of each Sub-Project (including 
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of BNU.
(b)
BNU shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
Page  3
such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. BNU shall take such steps satisfactory to the Trustee as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates 
of exchange between the various currencies (including the currency of the Recipient) 
used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Trustee and of BNU 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Grant Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Trustee shall promptly notify BNU thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. 
The addresses so specified are:
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For BNU:
Banco Nacional Ultramarino
Rua Dr. Antonio Carvalho
Edificio Acait
Dili - East Timor
Facsimile:
+670 390 324 298
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BNU or by BNU 
on behalf of the Recipient under the Grant Agreement, may be taken or executed by its 
Director, Timor Operations, or by such other person or persons as the Director, Timor 
Operations shall designate in writing, and BNU shall furnish to the Trustee sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
Page  4
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, and Dili, East Timor as of the day 
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   As Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
By /s/ Sarah Cliffe
Authorized Representative
BANCO NACIONAL ULTRAMARINO
By /s/ Vasco Carrascalao da Silva
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Loans
1. 
The Loans shall be made on the following terms and conditions:
(a)
the interest rate shall be 10% per year;
(b)
there shall be a front end fee of 1.5%;  and
(c)
the repayment terms shall be in equal monthly installments over a period 
of up to 36 months with a grace period of up to three months, provided, however, that 
no repayment date shall be beyond August 31, 2003.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless:
(a)
the Loan for such Sub-Project shall have been a Loan for which the 
Trustee has authorized withdrawals from the Grant Account and such expenditures shall 
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Trustee 
shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule in respect of such Loan. For the purposes of the Grant Agreement and this 
Agreement, a Loan for a Sub-Project shall be in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant which shall not be less than $500 and not exceed $50,000, the 
foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by the 
Trustee.
3.
(a)
Each request by BNU for authorization to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account in respect of a Loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Borrower 
and the Sub-Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the 
Loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(b)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Trustee on or before 
December 31, 2001.
4.
Loans shall be made on terms whereby BNU shall obtain, by written contract with 
the Borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Trustee and BNU, including, in the case of any Loan the right to:
(a)
require the Borrower to carry out and operate the Sub-Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial 
Page  5
and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured at a reasonable price, 
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and 
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and 
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of consultants’ services, of their quality and 
the competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services shall 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee if the 
Trustee shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the 
Sub-Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Borrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Trustee or BNU shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Borrower and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-Project; and 
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Borrower to the use of the proceeds 
of the Grant upon failure by such Borrower to perform its obligations under its 
contract with BNU.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
BNU shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Trustee, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about October 31, 2000, and on or about October 31, 
2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by November 30, 2000, and November 30, 2001, or 
such later dates as the Trustee shall request, the respective reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
and the Trustee views on the matter.
2.
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, proceeds of repayments of Loans 
shall be relent on the same terms and conditions as set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
3.
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and other 
expenses incurred by BNU, BNU may retain for its own account (a) the front-end fee of 
1.5% referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) 9.5% of 
the amount of any repayment of a Loan made in accordance with Part A of the Project 
and paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
Page  6
