Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIUL USE ONLY
RePOrtNo. 10176
iYIJc)*  t',h ,  Ui  i N- '(~  1 .,W.   V, -u*(,'     i ,/ ( ,,   )   
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CREDIT 885-NIR)
DECEMBER 17, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Departinent
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents inay not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFAF (Franc of the African Financial Community)
Appraisal Year: US$1 - CFAF 220
Intervening Period: US$1 = CFAF 347
Completion Year: US$1 - CFAF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Coopéiation Economique (France)
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole (Niger)
CRD          Conseil Régional de Développement (Niger)
DAC          Building Design and Construction Division -
DACF         Finances and Administration Division    Project Unit
DAP          Pastoral Activities Division           (Niger)
DAZ          Animal Husbandry Division
DSE          Monitoring and Evaluation Division
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (France)
FNI          Fonds National d'Investissements (Niger)
FU           Forage unit
GMP          Groupement Mutualiste Pastoral       7 associations
GVC          Groupement à Vocation Coopérative    j of pastoralists
IEMVT        Institut d'Elevage et de Médecine
Vétérinaire Tropicale (France)
TLU          Tropical Lvestock Uit
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
October 1 - Septemnber 30



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
USA.
Ofie ni Oirecird.Gqwrai
Iecember 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Niger
Liyestogk Proiect (Cr. 885-NIR)
Attached, for your information, in a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Niger - Livestock Project
(Credit 885-NIR) n, prepared by the Resident Mission in Niger. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hu a rutricwd distribution and may be usod by rocipients only in the performance
of their offciai dutim ts contents may not otherwo be discbsed without WoxW Un1 guthori2abn.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT (CR. 885-NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa2e No.
PREFACE  ...............................................................  i
BASIC DATA SHEET .............................                                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...........................  vi
I. INTRODUCTION  ...........................  1
I. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .................                                    2
A. Origins ............................                                            2
B. Project Preparation ............          .........................   2
Bl. FAC-IEMVT-CCCE mission ............               ...............  3
B2. Supplemental report on province of Diffa.                               4
B3. IEMVT-Niger mission                          .5
C. Project Appraisal.                                                              5
D. Negotiations, Approval and Signature.                                           6
E. Project Description.                                                            6
II. PROJECT EXECUION..                                                                    7
A. Effective Date.                                                                 7
B. Amendments.                                                                     7
C. Progress of the Project.                                                        8
CI. Start-up phase.                                                         8
C2. Retraction phase.                                                      11
C3. Normal operations phase .12
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING    ..14
A. Cost and Financing .14
B. Disbursement and Sources of Financing .14
V. PHYSICAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS OF THE PROJECT  . .16
A. Physical Results .16
B. Economic Results .17
VI. PROJECT IMPAC .19
VII. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND] PERFORMANCE  . .20
A. Project Unit and Government Departments .20
B. Accounts and Audits .21
C. Expatriates .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE 0F CONTENTS (CONT'IY
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE  ..........................................  22
A. Resident Mission ........................................... 22
B. Headquarters ...........                ...............................  22
IX. L1ESSONS LEARNED ........................................... 23
TAUBLES:  .... v..................................,,,,,,,,..,.    26
Table 1: Balance Sheet, 1980-1989 ..........................................   26
Table 2: Key Indicators, as of Sept. 30, 1989 . ...................................  27
Table 3: Project Costs, by Year (estimated/actual)  .............          ..................  28
Table 4: Sources and Uses of Funds .........................................   30
Table 5: Co-Financing, by Donor (1979-1989) . ..................................  31
Table 6: Staff Complement .......................................... 32
Table 7: Ex-post Assessment of Economic Rate of Return ........               .................  33
MAP IBRD 13721R



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NICGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECI (CR. 885-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Niger Livestock Project, for which a
Credit (885-NIR) of US$12 million was signed on April 27, 1979, becoming effective on October
12, 1979. The Project Closing Date, initially scheduled for March 31, 1985, was extended on four
occasions, eventually until September 30, 1989. The final disbursement of proceeds was made on
September 28, 1989, and the Credit was disbursed in its entirety.
Written mainly by staff in the Resident Mission in Niger, this document is based on the
Appraisal Report, memoranda filed by supervision missions, correspondence between Bank and
Borrower, technical documentation associated with the project, and his earlier end-of-project
report written in 1989. Being an old style PCR, an opportunity to comment on a dra&t version in
the French language was provided to the Borrower. No comments were received.



- iii 
PROJECT COMPLEI[ON REPORT
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT (CR. 885-NIR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. Key Project Data
Actuat figure or Current
A.  Item                              Originat Estimate                 Estimate
Project Cost (US$ mi.lions)                                                 15                            15
Credit Amount (USS militons)                                                12                            12
Other Financing (US$ millions)                                               1.514                         1.840
Goverrnment                                                                0.972                        0 2i4
CNCA                                                                       0.514                        0.996
8eneficiaries
9/30/84                      9/30/88
Cemptetion Date Physicat Coaponents                                  10 and 82                     3 and 54
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                                                    satisfactory
tnstitutional Performance
B.  Cumulative Disbursement  (US$ mi lions)…-
FY80      FY81      FY82     FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
As estimated at Appraisat         0.6       2.4       5.6      8.8    11.5    12.0                 .        -        -
Actuat                            0.2       1.5       2.7      4.6      6.9      7.6      7.9      9.4    11.C    11.9    12.0
Actuat/estimated                33%       63%       48X      52%      60%      63%      66%      78%      92%     99%      100%
Date of Final Disbursement:  9/28/1989



C. Staff Inputs
|        .                                                                 l______  FISCAL YEAR
77       78      79      80       81       82     83      84      85       86      87       88      89      90      911   TOTAL
| Stage of Project Cycte
Up to Appraisal           17.8    22.2                                                                                                 _ -  -            40.0
From ltppraisat up to              49.9   13.6                                                                                                          b                       3.S
Board Approvat 
Supervision                         -       -       19.1    13.1   14.0   15.0    10.6       6.9    13.3      4.6      8.0    1.8      3.5    1.3       109.9
Completion Report                   -       -        -           -       -           -        -                               0.3      1.6               3.2
Other                               2.2    6.5       1.1                     0.8     1.6      0.4     5.4     1.7      3.2                   _           22.9
TOTAL                     17.8    74.3   20.1    20.2    13.1   14.0   15.8    12.2          7.3  I18.7       6.3    11.2    2t1    5.1    1.3         239.5
D. Proiect Timetable
Staqe                          Originat Estimate                       Actual
First reference in archives                           11/76                             11/76
Preparation                                                                           3/77-1/78
Appraisat                                           04/18/78                           04118178
ilegotiatiorms                                      01/04/79                           01104(79
Approval                                            03/20/79                           03/13/79
Start-up                                            07/27/79                           10J12/79
Ctosing                                             03/31/85                           09130/89



E. Mlssion patU
Duration        No. of Members/ExpertsI         Perforance<2>                     bte
I_______Date __           (weeks)        ._      -_ -_-_._ _  __ __                 __._(3)__
Identification                11/76                 2           2 (SE)
Preparation                   3/77                  12          3 (4)
Preparaetion                  12/77                 8             t4)
Preparation                   8/78                  16          7 (4)
Pre-appralsal                 1/78                 1.5          2 <E, SE)
Appraisal                     4/78                  4           5 <IC, E, AF, SE)
Supervislon 1                 12/79                 2           2 (E, SE)                                   2                G
Supervision 2                 5/80                  2           2 (E, SE)                                   2                G
Supervision 3                 12/80                 2           1 (SE)                                      2               G, T
Supervision 4                 5/81                  2           2 (E, AF)                                   2                G
Supervision 5                 11/81                 1           4 (A, E, SE, SE)                            2                F,
Supervision 6                 6/82                  2           1 (SE)                                      2                P
Supervision 7                 12/82                 2           3 (E, SE, SE)                               2                 F
Supervision 8                 8/83                  1           1 (SE)                                      2                F
Supervision 9                 4/84                  1           2 CED, SE)                                  2               G, P
Supervision 10                3/85                  2           1 (SE)                                                       A A
Supervision Il                9/85                  2           2 (AF, SE)                                  2                A
Supervision 12                5/86                  1           1 (SE)                                      2               A, G
Supervision 13                1/86                  2           1 (SE)                                      2                F
Supervision 14                8/87                  2           2 (E, SE)                                   2                G
Supervision 15                6/88                  2           1 <SE)                                      2               F/G
Supervision 16                10/88                 2           1 (SE)                                      2                G
Comptetion                    9/89                  1           1 tAO)                                      2                F
(1)      A  =  architect, AF          financial analyst, AO  =  operations assistant, IC  =  civil engineer,
E = economist, ED = education expert, SE = livestock expert.
(2)   1 = no problem, 2 = minor problems, 3 = major problems.
(3)      A  =  other (change of director, drought), F  =  financial, G  =  management, P  =  policy,
T = technical.
(4)      Preparation mission members were consultants (fields of expertise unknown).
F. Other Proiect Data
Borrowe_:                   Govemment of Niger
E       tgA           :  Ministry of Rural Development
Fiscal Year:                October 1 - September 30
Follow-uy Project:  None



- vii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJEOT (CR. 885-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This Livestock Project in east-central Niger originated at a time when the livestock owners
were in crisis and searching urgently for a strategy to follow -- particularly in zones that were
chiefly pastoral -- in the aftermath of the droughts which struck Africa's Sahel countries in 1969
and 1973. The groundwork for it involved leading experts in livestock science, sociology,
economics, animal husbandry and veterinary medicine -- drawn from IEMVT, FAC and CCCE
technical staff, Niger central and regional government personnel and the staff of the World
Bank's Regional Mission for West Africa, who worked together on project preparation reports
between 1976 and 1978.
Proiect Objectives
2.           The general objectives of the project were to increase pastoralists' incomes and
improve the economic environment for livestock production. In the different types of zone,
production systems were to be made more productive: in the cropping zone, for instance, the
goal was to increase livestock productivity, while in the pastoral zone pastoralists were to be
organized more effectively, particularly for pasture and waier resource management.
Implementation Experience
3.           During the course of project execution, environmental conditions deteriorated
greatly, mainly following the droughts of 1983 and 1984, which explains why, instead of being
completed within the originally anticipated five-year period (1979-1984), the project took 10 years
to complete (1979-1989). In fact, three phases can be distinguished in its implementation history:
(i) start-up, 1979-1983; (ii) retraction, 1983-1985; and (iii) recovery/full operations, 1985-1989.
4.           During the start-up phase, it became clear that winning the confidence of
pastoralists and improving the way they were organized would depend on recognition of their
priorities, which were regular supplies of the products they regarded as basic necessities and
delivery of essential human and animal health care services. Accordingly, from 1981 onward, the
project followed an operational plan that called for: construction of pastoral centers, where a
wide range of goods and services was to be available; creation of stock watering points; and
formation of pastoral associations, which would eventually become pastoral units.
5.           The second, or retraction, phase was a time of terrible drought which forced the
sale or migration out of the country of half the herds and flocks in the region and devastated all



- vdiL 
grazing areas, resulting if not in suspension, then at least in slowing down, of all economic activity
in the pastoral zone. In an attempt to counteract this situation and not simply remain passive, the
project launched initiatives or supervised such emergency operations as distribution of stock
feedstuffs, processing of animals into dried meat, and removal of animais to more suitable regions.
6.           During the post-drought recovery phase, the first pastoral centers were
inaugurated in November 1985, soon coming into full operation. This hastened the formation of
groupements mutualistes pastoraux (GMPs), which in turn led to the appearance of the
cooperatively oriented groupements a vocation coopérative (GVCs). The determination shown by
the Government (manifested by its incorporation of the results of a seminar on livestock and
pastoralism into the 1987-89 Economic and Social Development Plan), the drive shown by the
project management team, and the open-mindedness shown by the GMPs led to the multiplication
of project actions for the benefit of pastoralists (credit for reconstitution of herds and flocxs,
cooperative stores, opening of a sixth pastoral center, etc.) and to a move to form GMPs based
on the recognition of rights to the ownership and management of water and grazing resources.
Results
7.           The physical results of the project are particularly evident in the pastoral zone, in
the way pastoralists are organized and in the siting of pastoral centers. The project assisted with
the formation of 144 GMPs and 9 GVCs, which, given their economic aims and level of
org ,*nization, closely resemble full-scale cooperatives. These associations, because they can rely
on the pastoral centers, which are actually service complexes, are now contributing to the growth
of the pastoral economy. In al areas, tangible results are to be seen in: (i) improved livestock
productivity; (ii) the infrastructure created in the project area; and (iii) a data base consisting of
the findings of numerous surveys. In moving to improve livestock productivity, the project
introduced needs that must be classed as essential from now on and have created very heavy
demand among pastoralists for veterinary and anim..al husbandry goods, particularly antiparasite
products. In addition, e-Àisting livestock service benefited from better working conditions and
numerous training/retraining opportunities for their staff.
8.           Despite the erratic behavior of the climate and other vicissitudes, the project, by
late 1989, had succeeded in reconstituting herds and flocks at their 1979 levels and in breaking
new ground with such emergency operations (replicable by pastoralists) as the animal feed and
dried meat ventures which benefited all concerned. Its econoinic rate of return is equivalent to
3% -- if calculated on the hypothesis that its most direct and easily measured effect is to be seen
in the numbers of births and deaths of young animals (0-1 year) as a consequence of antiparasite
treatments. If, however, the benefits produced by animal health programs (in particular, th-
elimination of rinderpest from the project area throughout the implementation period) are taken
into account, the ex-post ERR becomes 54%. It is this rate that should be compared with the ex-
ante ERR of 82%. The ex-post ERR of 3% should be compared with the ex-ante ERR that did
not include the anticipated effects of eliminating rinderpest and was only 10%. Clearly, the
economic result obtained from the project is below what was projected, but the actual figures are
54% instead of 82%, or 3% instead of 10%.



- ix -
Sustainability
9.            On the financial plane, responsibility for recurrent project costs was not accepted
by either Government or beneficiaries, and in this sonse the project gives no evidlence of
sustainability. However, there has always been a new project funded by another donor to finance
these costs, which means that non-sustainability has still not been definitely established. This is
due to the technical advances that have come through the project, since the success achieved in
the pastoral zone of Zinder province is very revealing as regards methods of intervening usefully
in semi-arid regions of this type, for which there is otherwise no hope. Such advances will not be
lost.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.           The project has had an impact in initiating an organizational system in at least part
of the project area which should have major implications for the sustainability of the pastoral
system in Niger; moreover, it should be a replicable system provided the political will exists to give
the required attention to this subsector. Three key lessons are to be learned from the project and
it, ten-year accumulation of experience:
(a)    An administrative system that is aware of the problems of the pastoral population,
capable of devising -mple and appropriate solutions, "associative" by nature, and
flexible in its attitudes and approaches will be imperative from now on wherever
pastoral activities in Niger are concerned;
(b)    The proiect demonstrated that the entire Niger economy could enjoy the fruits of
vigorous growth if the still untapped resources of the country's pastoral production
systen.3 were exploited, provided that moves to organize pastoralists were
accompanied by land-tenure regulations, incentive measures, and provision of
essential goods and services;
(c)    The project has demonstrated the need to accelerate the integration of activities
between cropping and pastoral zones so as to take advantage of the effects of
synergy and achieve better management of natural resources (grazing, watering
points, environmental protection, livestock, animal feedstuffs);



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT (CR. 885-NIR)
T. INTRODUCTION
1.01  The Livestock Project, the first of its kind to be financed by the Bank in Niger, was the
institution's sixth project in the sphere of rural production in that country; it followed the
Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 207-NIR, 1970), the Drought Relief Project (Credit 441-NIR,
1974), the Maradi Rural Development Project (Credit 608-NIR, 1976), the Forestry Project
(Credit 800-NIR, 1978) and the Irrigation Project (Credit 851-NIR, 1978). Like the FAC-
financed Sud-Tamesna Project and the USAID-financed Range and Livestock Management
Project, the Livestock Project belonged to the first stage of Niger's Pastoral Zones Extension ana
Management Program. Its main source of financing was a World Bank Credit (885-NIR) for
US$12 million to be used in providing direct assistance to pastoral zones and support for existing
livestock service agencies in cropping zones of the provinces of Zinder, Maradi and Diffa.
1.02   Prior to the droughts of 1969 and 1973, which, because of immigration and forced
sales,reduced the livestock population in the pastoral zone by half and brought GDP down by
nearly 15%, the livestock subsector had accounted for 20% of GDP and 20% of exports in 1969 -
- figures which changed to 11% of GDP and 22% of exports in 1973 and to 16% of GDP and
13% of exports in 1979. Today, in 1989, pastoralism accounts for 14% of GDP and 14% of
exports. Given the weight of the subsector in the economy, as well as a tendency to regard
pastoral-zone grazing resources as inexhaustible, the Government's livestock policy ever since
1960 has concentrated on providing goods and services for the benefit of the herds: veterinary
health, surface wells (followed later by high-capacity deepwells), and pasture protection with
firebreaks. In 1969, the French Ministry of Cooperation began sponsoring a series of studies on
stockraising and pastoral zones in some of the Sahel countries, investigations which raised
questions on existing strategies (focused primarily on protecting the herds) and pointed to the
need for improved management of pastoral areas, chiefly by striking a balance between herd size
and pasturing capacity, and for more active participation by pastoralists themselves.
1.03   As a consequence of these studies, the Government of Niger adopted a strategy based on
subdividing the country into three zones: pastoral zone, intermediate zone, and cropping zone,
each with its particular specialty. The pastoral zone, for instance, is regarded principally as a birth
zone where herds migrate over routes that are properly organized and equipped as regards both
infrastructure and services (health, education, water, etc.). The intermediate zone is used for the
backgrounding of young animals arriving from the pastoral zone. In the cropping zone, this new
approach means the disappearance of stockraising by the extensive method and the substitution of
breeding methods that are both intensive and fully integrated with crop growing operations; in
addition, this is the preferred zone for fattening and for other types of intensive production
(dairying, poultry).



-2-
1.04   This new strategy would be coupled with a succession of three livestock projects: the 1977
Range Management Project in the Tahoua and Agadès districts, the 1979 Livestock Project in the
provinces of Zinder, Maradi and Diffa, and the 1980 Sud-Tamesna Project in one sector of the
provinces of Filingué and Tchintabaradène. All three were designed to generate fuller knowledge
and to provide public livestock and other necessary support services to ensure that the pastoral
zone would be able to fulfill its assigned function.
1.05   The Development Credit Agreement associated with this Livestock Project was negotiated
January 4-6, 1979, approved by the Executive Directors on March 13 and signed on April 27 that
year, coming into effect five and a half months later, in October. Credit 885-NIR was amended
twice and its closing date postponed four times.
1.06   This Project Completion Report is based on supervision mission reports filed by Bank
staff, annual monitoring and evaluation reports submitted by SEDES, progress reports fromn the
Project Management Unit, auditors' reports, and the end-of-project report presented by the
director of the Project Unit. In addition, conversations were held with individuals who were
directly or indirectly involved in project design and implementation.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Origins
2.01   The idea for a livestock project dated from 1969, when the Bank and the Government
examined all the possible ways of developing the livestock subsector in Niger. Several project
proposais were reviewed but rejected. What the Government would like to have done was to
replicate the model of the Ekrafane ranch (North Filingué) in the pastoral zones in eastern Niger,
but Bank technical staff felt unable to approve the idea. Following the drought of 1973, the Bank
advocated that the Maradi Rural Development Project (Credit 608-NIR), which was appraised in
1973 and finally signed in 1976, include: (i) improvement of livestock services within its target
area; (ii) preparation of a livestock development project; and (iii) provision of credits for
pastoralists who had lost their animals during the 1973 drought. For various reasons, but
principally because of the Government's newly announced strategy of pastoral zone
modernization, a livestock project focused not only on Maradi province but in the end on the
provinces of Zinder and Diffa as well was identified in November 1976 by a team from the Bank
Regional Mission for West Africa in Abidjan.
B. Proiect Preparation
2.02  In July 1977, a group of French consultants from IEMVT, the Ministry of Cooperation in
Paris and the CCCE drafted a preparation report on what was called "Livestock Development
Project in Maradi and Zinder Provinces." On the strength of this document, a Bank pre-appraisal
mission was organized in January 1978. In the following March, another project preparation
report, similar to the document covering Maradi and Zinder, was drafted by Livestock
Department staff for the province of Diffa. Proiect appraisal took place in April/May 1978. The
technical feasibility of the concept of pastoral units in Niger (administrative districts of Tanout
and Gouré) was confirmed subsequently in July/August 1978.



- 3 
B1. FAC-IEMVT-CCCE missio-n (1977)
2.03   At the beginning of 1977, the Bank and the Government had agreed that preparation of a
livestock project should be entrusted to the Ministry of Cooperation in Paris, which subsequently
dispatched a mission consisting of three experts (IEMVr, Ministry of Cooperation and CCCE).
From the outset, all parties agrced that the project area should be limited to the provinces of
Maradi and Zinder and possibly that of Diffa. However, because of the time frame allowed for
the study, the mission limited the area to Maradi and Zinder, asserting that this would give the
project a large enough scale anyhow, since these two provinces already accounted for 36% of the
country's cattle herds, 45% of its sheep flocks and 47% of its goat flocks.
2.04   The project in this form accommodated the Government's major aims (1976-78 Three-
Year Plan), namely, reconstitution of herds and flocks, organization of the pastoral zone, and
increased productivity through smallholder fattening operations. Given the enormous scale of the
resources that would be required to affect all types of livestock breeding, the project
documentation focused mainly on: (i) integrated actions in the pastoral zone -- that is, actions
affecting all aspects of the life of the pastoralist; (ii) intensification of livestock activities in the
cropping zone, fundamentally through fattening operations and use of animal traction; (iii) animal
health surveillance, provision of intermediate goods, and creation of commercial infrastructure to
meet the needs of traditional nomadic and sedentary animal breeders; and (iv) other actions such
as smallstock (i.e. small ruminants) improvement programs, additional infrastructure, training for
Livestock Department and other pastoral service personnel, assured supplies of necessary
products, and better provision of credit facilities.
2.05   As far as the pastoral zone was concerned, the preparatory documentation set a long-term
objective (rational organization of the zone to ensure more efficient use of water and grazing
resources) and a short-term objective (reconstitution of herds and flocks and assistance for
pastoralists in getting back to normal). To these ends, pastoralists were to be organized into
primary associations known as groupements mutualistes pastoraux (GMPs), similar to those eXisting
in the cropping zone; each six or seven of these would form an area association; and eveiy three
to five area associations would form a pastoral unit. Each primary association would be vested
with priority rights over one watering point and with subsidiary rights over one or more watering
points in times of severe drought. In other words, the effect of this detailed system of
organization in the pastoral zone would be to give pastoralists security in terms of organization of
the use of grazing resources, sinking of wells, animal care (feed supplies, health measures),
meeting of their own needs (health, education, grain supplies), provision of credit facilities for
herd/flock reconstitution and to preclude premature offtake of animals, and new experimental
programs. Resources would be required on a sufficiently large scale to cover: creation of
infrastructure (complexes of services for both humans and animals to be provided from pastoral
centers, a well-digging program); setting up of locally based service entities (technical and auxiliary
services); supplies of products for animal needs; and credit facilities.
2.06   For the cropping zone, what the preparatory project documentation proposed were
extensive actions (animal health, animal feedstuffs, introduction of information systems) and
intensive actions (animal traction, sheep and goat fattening). The methods advocated were:
creation or rehabilitation of health and commercial infrastructure; strengthening of livestock
services; offer of operating loans; provision of working capital; deliveries of drugs and food
supplements (salt lick); and promotion of credit secured on livestock.



2.07   In the institutional spliere, the FAC-IEMVT-CCCE mission advocated an autonomous
project structure answerable to the Ministry of Rural Development (as with the Maradi Project).
Although located in Zinder province, this unit would be in contact with the Livestock Department
and other sections of the Ministry. As far as task sharing was concerned, the project was to target
the pastoral zone, where administrative infrastructure was nonexistent and the operations
envisaged were novel in character; it would also be the vehicle for setting up infrastructure in the
cropping zone. However, it was supposed to subcontract (i) with the subprefects for the granting
of loans for herd/flock reconstitution and with CNCA for fattening credits, and (ii) with the
existing livestock service agencies for all other action programs to be carried out in the cropping
zone. Given this institutional structure, the FAC mission expressed its concern regarding:
(i) harmonization of nonproject staff compensation, since the Project Unit was going to require
28 staff of its own in categories A, B and C and the existing service agencies were going to
require about 16 additional staff in categories B and C; and (ii) consistency in types of
intervention and in use made of staff resources by the existing service agencies between this
project and other projects being implemented in the same zone.
2.08   The mission estimated project cost at CFAF 4.972 billion, or US$20.24 million.
2.09   Economic analysis demonstrated that the project would provide a rate of return of 31%.
However, there were three types of risk associated with it: (i) adequacy of rainfall;
(ii) acceptability; and (iii) adequacy of livestock prices. The mission concluded that, after the first
five years of the project, a period of consolidation would be necessary until an Office de la zone
pastorale (Pastoral Zone Authority) could be set up.
B2. Supplemental report on province of Diffa (Livestock Department staff, February-
March 1978)
2.10   This report by Livestock Department staff was very useful and illuminating as regards the
province of Diffa, its socioeconomic and physical realities, the constraints they might represent,
and activitiep incorporated in projects already under way or planned. In other words, a very good
overview of the livestock subsector and its production potential was provided. Diffa province
contained 43% of the number of cattle, 22% of the number of smallstock and 43% of the number
of camels as the Maradi-Zinder region. Its p<.stora1 zone, however, exceeded the limits set in the
crop ceilings legislation of 1961. The report recognized that, unlike Maradi and Zinder, Diffa,
because of its smaller cropping zone and low crop output, would not be suited to livestock
specialization on the three-zone basis referred to in para. 1.03 above.
2.11   The report on Diffa followed the FAC-IEMVT-CCCE mission report very closely,
advocating the same action programs, components, resources and institutional organization.
However, it did propose certain new elements: (i) three studies were recommended (on breeding
and diseases of camels, brucellosis and its effects on output, and distribution and marketing of the
dried seasoned meat called quilichi; (ii) construction of 10 pastoral centers to allow very close
coverage of the pastoral zone; and (iii) the opening of school canteens.
2.12  T'e overall cost of the project programs recommended for Diffa were estimated in the
report at CFAF 1.548 billion, or US$6.45 million, breaking down as 36% in foreign exchange and



- 5 -
64% in local currency. Operating costs and capital spending in the pastoral zone would absorb
two thirds of the total.
B3. IEMVT-Niger mission (April-December 1978)
2.13   This mission had instructions to evaluate the concept of the pastoral unit from the
standpoint of its technical feasibility. Its terms of reference required it to: (i) inspect and
prescribe the boundaries of pastoral units (areas providing pasturing for well-identified groups of
pastoralists); (ii) discuss the type of incorporating instrument that pastoral associations would use;
and (iii) identify possible sites for pastoral centers. After acquainting themselves with the pastoral
environment and holding discussions with pastoralists and their customary leaders in the districts
of Tanout and Gouré, mi, %ion members concluded that: (i) there was no obstacle to subdivision
of the pastoral zone because it was so under-utilized (grazing areas left unused for lack of
watering points); (ii) plans for the use of the pastoral zone should allow for nomad herders, who
could possibly be organized into pastoral units themselves after broader and more thorough study;
and (iii) pastoralists would accept the principle of the pastoral unit as long as they themselves
could be assured of food security (grain supply), availability of watering points, access to health
care for themselves and veterinary care for thei. animals, and education.
2.14   In its conclusions, the IEMVT-Niger mission team recommended: that the pastoral zone
as a whole (arnd not a portion of it) be regarded as the project area; that a Pastoral Code be
drawn up which would preserve the existing types of extensive livestock production; and that
pastoralists' associations be formed so as to provide a legal basis for the pastoral units. At the
end of September 1978, the mission presented its report and recommendations to a meeting of
Government and World Bank representatives, who agreed unanimously that the concept of
pastoral units was a feasible one.
C. Project Appraisal
2.15   A Bank mission spent April and May 1978 in Niger to appraise the project. Three
consultants joined the group, one of whom had taken part in the FAC-IEMVT-CCCE
preparation mission. After a detailed inspection visit to much of thc pastoral zone in Zinder and
Maradi provinces, and having considered the first two preparatory reports on the project (the
FAC-IEMVT-CCCE mission report and the supplemental report on Diffa province), the mission
occupied itself especially with two key points: (i) the operational character of the concept of
pastoral units; and (ii) the number of pastoral centers to be built (it recommended a maximum of
five, although the Government wished to see 22 built).
2.16   In view of the novelty to the Niger authorities of the concept of pastoral units, and
considering nlot only the changes and legal and institutional implications, their implementation
would have but also the high number of pastoral centers the Government was requesting, the
mission strongly urged the authorities to conduct a study in the Tanout and Gouré districts as a
means of: (i) verifying the technical feasibility of the concept of the pastoral unit; and (ii)
determining how many pastoral centers should be built. As a consequence of this, the
Government quickly filed an application for an advance of US$80,000 from the Project
Preparation Facility. It was agreed between the mission and the Government that IEMVT would
be commissioned to carry out the study, in view of its experience in Chad (Credit 309-CD), and



-6-
that the working group would include Niger Livestock Department staff and a representative of
the Bank Regional Mission for West Africa (Abidjan).
2.17   While awaiting the results of this study, the appraisal mission concluded that the main
lines for action set out in the FAC-IEMVT-CCCE mission report should be retained, but with the
project area being extended to include the province of Diffa. At the same time, it eliminated the
salt-lick factory, because separate financing had been obtained for it, and reduced the size of the
credit component (25% of the total project as estimated by the FAC-IEMVT-CCCE mission).
Initial appraisal mission estimates put overall project cost at US$11 million, with IDA financing to
cover US$8.5 million of that amount.
D. Negotiations. Approval and Signature
2.18 During project negotiations, in the first week of January 1979, the director of Niger's
Livestock Department, raising no major problems, proposed amendments in the draft text of the
Credit Agreement that would ensure consistency with his Government's policy on distribution of
veterinary products, (some sold, others available free of charge), and provided particulars on
CNCA ii,terest rate levels on loans for backgrounding operations. At his request, IDA: (i)
authorized contributions of cash instead of labor from pastoralists toward construction of wells;
(ii) agreed to take into account the preferences of different groups of pastoralists as regards the
structure of their herds and flocks; and (iii) consented to include in the project the construction
of Livestock Department offices/buildings in the province of Diffa. On return of its appraisal
mission to headquarters, the Bank also agreed to include in total project cost the expense of three
veterinaty posts and the operating and equipment costs associated with vaccination campaigns.
2.19   After the Bank had revised total project cost upward to a figure of US$15 million and the
Government had confirmed its agreement to the changes made during the negotiation process,
the Executive Directors, on thc recommendation of Management, approved an IDA Credit of
US$12 million on March 13, 1979, a week earlier than anticipated. Signature of the Credit
Agreement took place on April 27, 1979.
E. Project Description
2.20 As approved by the Executive Directors, the project was to have a duration of five years
and cover the provinces of Diffa, Maradi and Zinder. Its objectives were four in number: to
inerease incomes by improving productivity; to ensure active participation by pastoralists in the
management of water and pasture resources; to strengthen the Livestock Department; and to
increase and improve fattening activities. To ensure achievement of these goals, the components
of the project were as follows:
In both types of project zone
(a)   procurement and distribution of drugs, feed supplements and vaccines;
(b)   extension and rehabilitation of existing livestock health and marketing infrastructure;



-7-
In proiect pastoral zones
(c)   demarcation of pastoral units, formation and recognition of associations of pastoralists, and
construction and operation of five pastoral centers;
(d)   provision of goods and services to pastoralists (human health, animal health, water
management, grain supplies, etc.);
(e)   provision of credits to pastoralists for backgrounding operations and reconstitution of their
herds and flocks;
In project cropping zones
(t)   provision of credits for cattle and sheep fattening operations;
(g)   strengthening of the Livestock Department with additional personnel resources,
equipment and vehicles, and through the construction of offices for it in Diffa and for the
Project Management Unit.
2.21   Overall liroject cost was estimated at CFAF 3.3 billion, or US$15 million. Of this amount,
programs in the pastoral and cropping zones accounted for 26% and 35% of expenditure
respectively. The IDA Credit was US$12 million, which represented 80% of total project cost,
100% of foreign exchange expenditure and 58% of local currency expenditure. The other
cofinancers were the Government, for 10% of total cost, Caisse Nationale du Crédit Agricole
(ONCA) for 6.5% of total cost, and the beneficiaries themselves, principally pastoralists, for 3.5%
of total cost.
III. PROJECT EXECUTION
A  Effective Date
3.01   The two conditions on which entry of the Credit Agreement into effect depended (deposit
by the Government of CFAF 150 million in the project accounts, and appoin.ment of a project
director and two officers with responsibility for pastoral activities and financial matters) could not
be met by July 27, 1979, the deadline set in the Credit Agreement. It was not until the following
October 12, after a delay of two and a half months, due mainly to the Government's lengthy
administrative and legal procedures, that the Credit became effective.
B. Amendments
3.02   The Credit Agreement was amended twice and was the subject of four postponements.
The first amendment, in July 1983, called for: (i) IDA to increase its contribution to operating
costs and, therefore, to total project cost; and (ii) the opening of a special account. These



changes were a result of the Government's financial inability, following the drop in Niger's income
from uranium sales, to meet its commitment to provide counterpart funds. The second
amendment, in April 1985, dealt with the allocation of funds for the purchase of animals for an
operation to produce smoked meat following the drought of 1984; requested by the Government,
it led to the Bank's updating the description of the project. Originally scheduled to have a
duration of five years (1979-1984), the project, following four postponements of its closing date,
was finally completed after an implementation period of 10 years.
C. Progress of the Project
3.03   This Livestock Project -- as the Appraisal Report had indicated it would be -- was a direct
"presence" in the pastoral zone, a region characterized by the absence of administrative
infrastructure and by almost 20 years of neglect as far as official livestock services and the
provision of goods and services were concerned. In the cropping zone, project programs were
generally subcontracted to existing regional livestock services. Actual implementation of the
project went ahead in three phases and mainly concentrated pattern in the Department of Zinder.
The first phase, from September 1979 to September 1983, can be regarded as the start-up phase,
when project operations were launched. The second, from September 1983 to November 1985,
because of the July 1984 drought and its aftermath, was a period of retraction as far as most
project activities were concerned, although it was also a time for conserving prior gains. The last
phase, from November 1985 to September 1989, saw the project move irto its normal operating
pattern. These phases also corresponded with the terms of office of the three directors who
succeeded one another at the head of the Project Management Unit.
Cl. Start-uv phase (September 1979 to September 1983)
3.04   General environment in the 1979-83 period: At the time the project was launched, Niger
was in relatively easy financial and economic circumstances. From March 1983, however, it was in
a state of financial crisis, which prevented it from fulfilling i- commitment to put up counterpart
funding for the project. Prior to that, the rainfall pattern and the results of the 1979 and 1980
cropping seasons had given grounds for optimism at ail levels. On the political plane, the
Government, in April 1979, had begun implementing its Société de Développement concept -- a
process that called for the establishment of basic units or cells at ail levels of the population as a
means of fostering consultation, participation and concertation. It was against this background
that the project activities were to be launched.
3.05   The Project Management Unit was created in August 19'9. It was initially organized
according to types of activity: Pastoral Activities Division (DAP), Animal Husbandry Division
(DAZ), and Administrative and Financial Division (DAF). In 1982, two other sections were
created, reflecting then current concerns: the Building Design and Construction Division (DAC),
in view of the specific requirements to be met in the pastoral zone, and the Monitoring and
Evaluation Division, previously a unit attached to the project director's offîce. By September
1979, high-level Niger professionals had been recruited for the posts of project director and head
of the Animal Husbandry Division. The Pastoral Activities and Administrative and Financial
Divisions, and subsequently the Building Design and Construction and the Monitoring and
Evaluation Divisions, were headed by expatriates, however. Their recruitment posed no
difficulties: three of them (Pastoral Activities, Administrative and Financial, and Building Design
and Construction) were independent consultants, while the fourth (Monitoring and Evaluation)



-9-
was initially a French National Service volunteer and later a member of a consulting firm. It was
at this time that consultants were commissioned to undertake studies on (i) grassland areas and
(ii) the camel population (diseases and production).
3.06   Activities in the pastoral zone were to be the most intensive of all project activities. Plans
were made to follow a logical sequence of action programs: Program 1, demarcation of pastoral
units; Program 2, formation of associations of pastoralists; Program 3, construction and getting
into operation of pastoral centers; and Program 4. creation of stock watering points and provision
of services. In accordance with the recommendations contained in the IEMVT project
preparation report (September 1978, Feasibility Study of Pastoral Units) and in the Appraisal
Report itself, the Pastoral Activities Division used an adaptive ("learning by doing") research
approach in preparing the ground for those four categories of action program. Sociogeographic
studies begun in early 1980 as part of this process concluded that: (i) the movements of
pastoralists were on a larger scale and more complex and irregular than had been indicated in the
IEMVT preparatory report; and (ii) pastoralists were generally more anxious to see programs and
investments that would help them make up for lost ground than to form themselves into
associations. Part of the explanation for this attitude appears to have been their conviction that
they came off poorly in public inve.stment plans and in the solutions applied to cropgrower-
pastoralist conflicts over the movement of herds and flocks toward the south. As these
conclusions were eminently credible, the Bank's April/May 1980 supervision mission agreed that
project implementation plans should be changed to allow the following planning sequence:
Program 2 (formation of associations of pastoralists); Program 3 (construction and getting into
operation of pastoral centers); Program 4 (creation of stock watering points and provision of
services); and Program 1 (demarcation of pastoral units). Nine months later, the head of the
Animal Husbandry Division of the Project Unit, a sociologist by training, was forced to recognize
that the degree of skepticism among pastoralists precluded any hope of implementing this general
plan successfully. However, he believed that if pastoralists' own priorities (availability of health
care services, in particular) were given prominence, then the project would win back its credibility
with them. Accordingly, after Bank approval was obtained in November 1981, the planning
sequence was altered once again, as follows: Program 3, Program 4, Program 2, Program 1.
Considering the amount of work already accomplished in the pastoral zone of Zinder province,
the amount of work still to be done there, the economic importance of this particular zone, the
proximity of the date scheduled for project completion, and the fact that the Project Unit itself
was located in this province, it was proposed that project activities should be concentrated on the
Zinder pastoral zone -- on the understanding that the other pastoral zones (in Maradi and Diffa
provinces) would be closely scrutinized during the subsequent phases of the project.
3.07   Pastoral associations: As part of the process of setting up associations of pastoralists, the
Project Unit, on behalf of the Ministry of Rural Development, tested and eventually drafted
legislation governing the organization of pastoralists by zone. It came into force on April 18,
1981, specifying a range of criteria for the establishment of cooperatives but giving primary
importance to sociogeographic considerations. Although its promulgation served as the starting
signal for the formation of GMPs (groupes mutualistes pastoraux) and GVCs (groupements à
vocation coopérative), the legislation made no reference to recognition of rights of ownership or
usufruct over watering points. By the end of September 1983, a total of 71 GMPs had been set
up. The work entailed in forming these groups provided the Project Unit with the opportunity to
identify five sites for future pastoral centers and to draw up a "handbook" of essential data for the
guidance of future center managers.



- 10 -
3.08   Pastoral services: As the series of sociogeographic studies progressed, the project began
providing pastoralists with human health and animal health services and supplies of basic products.
In the human health arena, for instance, the project trained first-aid workers and midwives in all
pastoral zones (Zinder, Diffa, Maradi); in the animal health field paraveterinary workers were
trained; where basic products were concerned, although sociogeographic studies were still in
progress, the Pastoral Activities Division of the Project Unit showed extremely sound judgement
by arranging for one of the intended functions of the future pastoral centers, namely their role as
supply points for basic products, to be carried out through 20 subsidiarj field service units (known
as relais pastoraux). Finally, toward the end of Phase I, the project began making "hungry-season"
loans through 13 recently established GMPs. The fact that the GMPs were instrumental in
providing this type of credit, which enables pastoralists to lay in a stock of food grains before they
start moving their animals, gave them a specific operational role. (In the cropping zone, the
counterpart of the hungry-season loan is the grain bank.)
3.09   Pastoral infrastructure: The new project planning sequence referred to in para. 3.06
above led tu the Project Unit's creation of its Building Design and Construction Division (DAC)
which was given responsibility for the design and construction of the pastoral centers. At the
beginning of 1983, the Government consented to the construction of five pastoral centers (four in
conventional building materials and one in local materials) and the sinking of the borewells
associated with them. A pastoral center is a complex of buildings which accommodate both
human and animal health care delivery services, as well as grain supply services. Because of
coordination problems between DAC and the Agricultural Engineering Department of the
Ministry of Rural Development, actual construction work did not begin until the middle of 1983.
Despite the needs expressed for watering points lying outside the pastoral centers and the fact
that 18 wells were sunk, demand was not actually met because the conditions prescribed in Article
III, Section 3.06, of tht Development Credit Agreement regarding the grant of exclusive rights to
the use of watering points to specific pastoral groups had still not been fulfilled by the
Government.
3.10   Activities in support of animal production and health: In relative terms, these activities
were among the easiest included in the project. They consisted in: (i) strengthening existing
Livestock Department services throughout the project area (training included) and either creating
or rehabilitating marketing and health infrastructure; and (ii) introducing programs to improve
animal production (inputs and fattening). Except for its supervision of civil engineering works
associated with health and commercial infrastructure, the Project Unit entered into subcontracting
arrangements with the Livestock Department for the implementation of other project programs.
3.11   Support for Livestock Department: The project provided the Livestock Department with
considerable support in the form of equipment (4WD vehicles, chilling plant), operating
requirements (gasoline) and building. For instance, all 10 veterinary posts, all 20 vaccination yards
and the Department's headquarters in Diffa province were all built over the 1979-83 period.
Although the Project Unit possessed no means of ensuring that these assets were being correctly
used, such support made it possible to carry out vaccination campaigns successfully in both the
pastoral and cropping zones. In addition, the Project Unit went ahead with the rehabilitation of
slaughter/drying facilities.
3.12 Improvement of livestock productivitY: The project pioneered the use of a network of
paraveterinary workers to distribute animal husbandry inputs (antiparasite drugs, salt lick as a



- il -
source of mineral supplements, and vitamin complexes) right down to the individual pastoralist
level. Fattening operations were set up in the province of Maradi -- following the program in
Zinder province financed by the European Development Fund. Direct financing was provided for
sheep fattening operations run by woraien. CNCA, the National Agricultural Credit Fund, was
induced to finance cattle fattening operations and also to administer the portfolio of sheep
fattening operations; however, because of its financial difficulties, all fattening operations were
suspended as of 1982.
C2. Retraction phase (late 1983 - November 1985)
3.13   General environment in 1983-85: This period was marked by unprecedented crises. To
the crisis in public finances was added the drought of 1984, which had a tremendous impact on
the economic life of the country, particularly in the pastoral zones. Even well-known livestock
specialists were asking whether the whole system of pastoral life had not come to an end. In the
course of a seminar organized by the Livestock Department at Tahoua in April 1985, the group
of participants -- which included Bank representatives -- recognized not only that the pastoral
system was a complex one but that a feasible approach to the organization of pastoral regions was
wanting.
3.14   Project Management Unit: Once the pastoral centers were built and able to take over the
functions of the Unit's Pastoral Activities Division, the latter was reorganized. The following
changes took place in Unit staffing: departure of the first project director (September 1983);
departure of the expatriate personnel attached to the Pastoral Activities Division (August 1984),
the Monitoring and Evaluation Division (August 1985) and the Building Design and Construction
Division (August 1985); the chief of the Animal Husbandry Division, a civil servant seconded
from the Administrative Branch in October 1982, began serving as deputy project director; a
sociologist, a Niger national, was recruited to head the Pastoral Activities Division. The Project
Unit also recruited five management teams for the pastoral centers, each of them consisting of a
center manager (a junior-level livestock specialist), a nurse, a veterinary technician, a community
development worker (cooperatives), and auxiliary staff (drivers, laborers and guards). During this
phase, much more than during the previous one, the Project Unit lost prerogatives to the
Livestock Department, which involved itself much more in the daily management of the project.
3.15   Pastoral activities: From September 1983 to July 1984, although project activity was
concentrated on construction of the pastoral centers, the setting up GMPs continued, with 24 new
groups being formed. It was during the course of this work that the program to sink 18 stock
wells (identified as part of Action Program 4) was taken up again. As the subsidiary field service
units, the relais pastoraux, were found to be in a disastrous management situation, all deliveries to
them were suspended at the beginning of 1984 and they were disbanded once work on the
pastoral centers was completed at the end of that year. The project succeeded in recovering 80%
of the allocated credit. Immediately following the September 1984 drought, the project began a
livestock feed credit operation (7,146 metric tons, of which 900 tons was made available directly
by the project) in the pastoral zones of Zinder and Maredi provinces, utilizing funding from the
Dosso Project (Credit 967-NIR) and the Government. Despite these efforts, given the
seriousness of the drought, most pastoralists were forced to take refuge in the southern part of
Niger or in neighboring countries. The end result of this crisis was that the project was virtually
inactive for 12 months, which meant that the whole concept underlying it, particularly the creation



- 12 -
of the pastoral centers ("a veritable complex left unused in the middle of the desert"), was
seriously undermined and greatly weakened.
3.16   Activities in support of animal production and health: These activities too were limited in
the aftermath of the drought. Effort here was concentrated on (i) vaccination of the herd and
distribution of animal husbandry inputs, and (ii) the dried meat operation. After having reached a
maximum of 1,280,000 head of cattle in 1983-84, vaccinations fell to 74% of this figure in 1984-85,
the very height of the drought. The same pattern was seen in anti-parasite treatments: with small
ruminants, 55% of the number reached in 1983-84 was reached in 1984-85; and with large
ruminants, 45% of the number reached in 1983-84 was reached in 1984-85. As for vitamin
complexes and mineral supplements, 50% of the toninage distributed in 1983-84 was distributed in
1984-85. In the course of the dried meat processing operation, initiated in respoiise to the
prevailing emergency situation, roughly 1,420 tropical livestock units (TLUs) were purchased and
converted into approximately 50 metric tons of dried meat; the Government used this successful
venture as the basis for the same kind of operation on a much larger scale (2,043 TLUs, or 21,666
kg of dried meat) in the thrce provinces targeted by the project.
C3. Normal operations phase (November 1985 - September 1989)
3.17   General environment in 1985-89: This phase would have been the logical sequence to the
first (1979-83) had not the drought and its effects been the predominant factors in 1984-85.
During the 1985-89 period, rainfall was comparatively satisfactory, as were grazing conditions.
The new Ministry of Livestock Resources took this opportunity to join with its partners in a
seminar on pastoralism (Niamey, February 1986), where it was demonstrated that cropping zones
would have to intensify their activities if they were to produce sufficient animal feed to preserve
the pastoral zones and their herds and flocks, thus pointing up the links on which better
integration of pastoralism and cropgrowing would depend. Niger's 1987-91 Economic and Social
Development Plan incorporated the recommendations of this seminar, particularly "N -sting the
associations of pastoralists with ownership of man-made watering points present in their territori7,
provided the members of the association are able to devise a set of arrangements for their
management."
3.18   The Project Management Unit saw major changes during this period. The deputy project
director was promoted to the full directorship in December 1985. None of the contracts with
permanent expatriate staff were renewed, since the project was approaching what would normally
have been its closing date, although contracts were signed with former DAC, DSE and DAP staff
'or specific missions and with a local firm of auditors for administrative and financial advice. A
DAP branch office was set up in Diffae to prepare the second stage of the project. As regards
training for Livestock Department personnel, the project contracted in 1987 the services of a
consultant for specific missions.
3.19   Pastoral activities: As a normal rainfall pattern had reappeared in September 1985, the
pastoral centers finally opened their doors in the following November. This led to a burst of
activity during which many GMPs were formed (145 by September 30, 1989). It was also at this
period that the first GVCs were formed, with nine eventually being set up; they each consist of
several GMPs and resemble the type of area association envisaged in the preparatory project
documentation. In order to give the GMPs an economic function, but more especially to assist
pastoralists in recovering from the effects of the drought, the following programs were introduced:



- 13
(i) wcrking capital grants, so that 13 cooperative retail outlets could be kept stocked; and (ii) herd
reconstitution loans, entailing distribution of five head of smallstock to each beneficiary family.
By the end of the project, cash recovery rates were 0% on herd reconstitutioln loans and 2% on
animal feed loans. However, recoveries in kind on reconstitution loans were good, enabling
animals to be redistributed to other pastoraiists. From December 1989, recovery efforts were
taken over and continued by the Regional Development Council. Tne cooperative retail outlets
continued to turn in positive results.
3.20   Pastoral centers: Once the centers came into operation, a whole range of activities
commenced. Both human and animal health services, almost nonexistent until this point, attracted
growing number of patients. Intensive training in literacy, as well as other subjects, was provided.
Building projects in the public interest were organized by communities themselves (classrooms,
hospital rooms). The Niger authorities, as well as certain NGOs, used the centers as points from
which to establish contact with pastoralists in connection with all sensitization campaigns and new
programs (herd reconstitution, cooperative retail outlets). In view of the success of the existing
centers, the project in 1987 formed a fifth, at l[esker, by adding a veterinary post to already
existing facilities. In 1989 a sixth pastoral center, at Japtoji. came into operation. Accordingly,
instead of the five centers initially planned, six were created.
3.21   Water supply infrastructure: Thanks to the favorable general environment prevailing at
the time (referred to in para. 3.17 above) and excellent cooperation from the authorities of
Zinder province, the project joined forces with 18 GMPs in the North Gouré region in publicizing
and carrying out a program to sink 18 wells (out of 30 envisaged in 1979). Under the kind of
airangement set up, the parties to it (the project and the Regional Development Council on the
one hand and the pastoral communities on the other) had both rights and obligations: on
completion of a well-sinking contract, the pastoral community in question was left with exclusive
rights to the well and rights to use of the pasture available within a radius of 15 km. This
operation is the only one so far that fits in with the concept of a pastoral system advocated by the
project.
3.22   Activities in support of livestock production and health: These activities were of various
kinds (replacement of Livestock Department vehicles, anti-disease measures, vaccinations, sales of
livestock feed where needed) but on a smaller scale than previously. Moreover, despite its
training of auxiliary staff, the Department paid less attention to monitoring the distribution of
animal husbandry supplies, which were eventually limited to anti-parasite drugs. In 1986, a survey
of 1985 animal husbandry results was conducted. However, starting in 1987, the Project Director
also became the Regional Director for Livestock and there was a resurgence in Livestock
Department activities as a result of training programs in human resource management, individual
work organization, and refresher courses in technical flelds.
3.23   Reporting: In accordance with the requirements of the Credit Agreement, the Project
Unit issued quarterly progress reports from 1980 to 1989, and annual progress reports in 1983 and
1985. As advocated in the Appraisal Report, monitoring and evaluation reports were issued by
the Unit itself annually from 1979 to 1985; from 1986 to 1989, they were subcontracted to former
Monitoring and Evaluation Division staff. This collection of materials provided the basis for the
final report issued by the project director on September 30, 1989.



- 14 -
3.24   Procurement: Generally speaking, the project adhered to the Bank's procurement
guidelines, although economies could have been achieved had purchases of spare parts and tires
been handled differently. The project suffered from: (i) long delays oln the part of the
government offices and local commissions responsible for issuing invitations to bid, examining and
assessing bids, and awarding and signing contracts; and (ii) failure by local contract award
committees on some occasions to follow Bank rules and criteria when selecting contractors.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost and Financing
4.01   Originally expected to have a duration of five years, the project actually took 10 years to
implement. As a result of this, total estimated project cost on completion was CFAF 4.886 billion
(as against the CFAF 3.3 billion anticipated in 1979). Tables 1 and 3 give the year-by-year picture
of the sources and uses of funds as well as a comparison between projected costs and estimated
real costs.
4.02   Cost comparison as per Table 3 shows that: (i) costs overran the projected overall figure
by nearly 50%; (ii) not all project loan programs (breeding/backgrounding, diy-season grain
supplies, fattening) could be implemented as planned; (iii) operating expenses (including
manpower costs) at a total figure of CFAF 2.694 billion represented 55% of total project cost
(although initially projected to be 45%); (îv) with the single exception of the pastoral centers (1.4
times higher than estimated), there were enormous gaps between estimated and actual figures for
operating expenses (including manpower costs) in the pastoral zone (31 times higher than
estimated), the cronping zone (3 times higher than estimated) and the Project Management Unit
(1.8 times higher than estimated); (v) investment expenses (studies, civil works, vehicles and
equipment) totaled CFAF 1.972 billion, or 40% of project cost (as against the 46.5% anticipated
initially); and (vi) working capital in the form of inputs, which amounted to CFAF 238 million (or
5% instead of 8.5% of overall cost), was not utilized as anticipated in the cropping zone (68% of
the estimated figure) or by the pastoral centers (47% of the estimated figure).
B. Disbursement and Sources of Financing
4.03   The entire IDA Credit of US$12 million was disbursed by September 28, 1989. Overall
disbursement and disbursements by category (subsequent to the 1983 and 1985 amendments to
some category allocations of Credit proceeds) were as follows:



- 15 -
Initiat          Amended                       % of Amencled
Category                        Allocation       Attoration       Disbursed        Allocation
(thousands of US$)
Civil works                                               3,800             3,800          3,319                 87
VehicLes and equipment                                    1,300             1,300          1,905                147
Incremental stocks of drugs, vaccines,
livestock feed                                            1,300             1,300            634                 49
Credits for cattle breeding and                             450               450             44                 10
backgrounding
Purchase of animals and meat-drying
operations                                                                    100             142               140
Expatriate consultants                                    1,070             1,070          1,569                147
Salaries of local project staff                           1,000             1,500          1,300                 87
Operating costs of Project Unit                            1,200            1,700          3,008                177
Advance (PPF)                                                 80               80              79               100
Speciat Account                                                               200
UnaLlocated                                               1,800               500               0                 0
TOTAL                                                    12,000            12,000         12,000                100
4.04    The disbursements profile shows that the project succeeded in disbursing only 62.5%  of
Credit proceeds by March 31, 1985, the date given in the Appraisal Report for the completion of
all disbursements. The proceeds of the Credit were finally disbursed in their entirety by
September 1989, after the various postponements of the project closing date.
4.05    Overall financing for the project, both estimated and actual, was provided as follows
(CFAF million):
GOV'T                  CNCA                 BENEFICIARIES             IDA                    TOTAL
Est.    Actual       Est.      Actual      Est.      Actual          Est.     Actual      Est.        ActuaL
Yrl (79-80)              45      46.1           26       4.2          8        17.5       468            223        547        290.8
Yr2 (80-81)              56      79.4           39      19.1         16       37.2           671        396         782        531.7
Y-3 (81-82)              63     106.4           52      40.6         26       65.2           534        558         675        770.2
Yr4 (82-83)              70     141.7           50                   31        50            637         526        788        717.7
Yr5 (83-84)              74      34             47                   33        26            320        641         474        701
Yr6 (84-85)                      29.4                                           ',.5                     195                   229.9
Yr7 (85-86)                      36.4                                                                    255                   291.4
Yr8 (86-87)                      40.7                                                                   406                    446.7
Yr9 (87-88)                      39.7                                                                   472                    511.7
YrlO (88-89)                     37.2                                                                    361                   398.2
TOTAL                  308      591            214      63.9        114      201.4        2,630       4,033       3,266      4,889.3
N.B. The total contribution from  project beneficiaries almost doubled by comparison with initial
projections (Tables 4 and 5).



- 16 -
4.06   Cost overruns (CFAF 1.6 billion, or approximately 50% of anticipated total project cost)
were fundable because of: (i) revaluation of the dollar (which averaged CFAF 341 over the
entire project period, rising from CFAF 220 at signature of the Credit Agreement to CFAF
272.73 in 1981, to CFAF 436.96 in 1984 and to CFAF 449.26 in 1985 before falling back to
CFAF 346.3 in 1986, to CFAF 300.54 in 1987 and to CFAF 297.85 in 1988, then rising again to
CFAF 305 in 1989; (ii) CFAF 200 million in additional funding from the Government, a 64%
increase on the sum initially projected under this heading; and (iii) arrears of CFAF 68 million
with suppliers. As far as the overall cost of the project expressed in US$ is concerned, however,
there was finally no actual overrun.
V. PHYSICAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS OF THE PROJECT
A Physical Resuits
5.01   Eighteen months after the closing date of IDA Credit 885-NIR -- and this has not been
the case with other Bank-financed agricultural development projects -- the organization
established as part of the subject Livestock Project continues to function and to provide services
in the pastoral zone by virtue of other, temporary funding arrangements. With all the
accumulated experience it represents, the Livestock Project has become the Government's special
agency for pastoral questions. As far as concerns the country's pastoralists, since the project came
to an end they have kept local authorities aware of their point of view and of the primary
importance they consider should be given to maintaining and continuing the project services that
affect their socioeconomic activities. This situation may be regarded as the foremost result of the
project.
5.02   Despite the climatological disturbances that disrupted life in the project area in 1981-82
(province of Diffa, mu icipality of Gouré) and in 1983-84 (general drought) and many difficulties
of an institutional nati e, the Livestock Project also achieved verv appreciable results (Table 2) of
a physical nature in the following arenas:
(a)   Organization of pastoralists: Thanks to the Project Unit's very good understanding not
only of the dynamics of pastoralism but also of the organization of pastoral areas, and to
the unity of vision among its staff members, it succeeded in convincing the Bank to modify
the initial sequencing and prioritization of action programs in the pastoral zone. This
made it possible to create and foster the growth of: (i) initially, the early form of pastoral
association, namely 18 Groupement Mutualiste Pastoral (GMP), which focused on matters
of economic interest; (ii) at a later stage, the Groupement à Vocation Cooperative (GVC),
which grouped several GMPs and whose key functions lay in the administration of water
and pasture resources; and (iii) early experiments ,n the pastoral zone of North Gouré in
granting each GMP rights of ownership and use over a particular watering point and its
adjacent grazing.
(b)   Improvement of livesok prductivity: Chiefly the outcome of numerous animal health
actions (vaccinations. anti-parasite treatments, eradication of diseases) and supplemental
feeding (feedstuffs, salt lick), this resulted in reconstitution of the herd from 900,000



17 -
TLUs1 in 1985 (after the 1983-84 drought) to 1.8 million TLUs in 1989, the same level as
in 1979. At the same time, livestock breeders throughout the project area gained a better
knowledge of how to use the factors of production made available to them and became
accustomed to paying market prices for services and inputs.
(c)   Infrastructure in the roiect area: Through the project, the Livestock Department was
provided with the infrastructure facilities needed to ensure that its services were effective -
- veterinary posts, vaccinationi yards, pastoral centers, stock wells, and supporting
equipment (chilling plant, vehieles).
(d)   Location of pastoral centers: Ten years after commencement of the project, it is clear
that the pastoral centers were well-located: the use made of them today is full and
effective and their proximity to the places of residence of pastoral association leaders has
resulted in the spontaneous development around them of social infrastructure (school,
hospital, guest-house and meeting facilities) financed by the pastoral community itself.
(e)   Formation of a data base: Year by year, the project built up a very rich data base on:
animal breeding and veterinary matters; use of factors of production; slaughterhouse
activities; and the perceptions pastoralists have of the cooperative structures and official
livestock services they use. In addition, the project enabled the Livestock Department to
improve its knowledge of camel production and diseases, so that it is now in a position to
introduce new programs in this arena, ton
5.03   As may be seen from the Table of Key Indicators (Table 2), the Livestock Project was
successful in achieving certain of its original quantitative gcals: (i) improved animal health,
benefiting most livestock-owners in the project area, a total of 200,000 families; and (ii) improved
livestock productivity for 100,000 families. However, it did not manage to achieve the following
goals: substantial income improvement for 5,000 pastoral families, 7,500 cattle fatteners and 8,000
smallstock fatteners (mainly women), or the consequent improvement in the ecological
environment of the project area. Nevertheless, between 1979 and 1984 the herd increased from
2,075,000 to 2,400,000 TLUs, or by 2.9%2. From 1984 to 1985, because of the drought, the
project-area herd shrank by more than half. By the end of 1989, however, the numbers had
returned to their 1979 level (roughly 2,075,000 TLUs), or in other words had increased by nearly
13.5% annually between 1985 and 1989.
B. Economic Results
5.04   Project economic rates of return were projected initially as follows: pastoral zone (11% of
total cost), 100%; pastoral centers (31% of total cost), 8-15%; cropping zone (42% of total cost),
1/    The 1985 TLU estimate does not coincide with that in Table 7.2 which is
from a different source, but the basic observation of a massive recovery
within the pastoral herds is still valid.
2/    These figures do not coincide with those in Table 7.2 due to different
data sources.  The principle, however, is not affected by this
discrepancy.



- 18 -
100%; fattening of cattle and sheep (10% of total cost), 17%; and these four components
together (94% of total cost), 82%. Twelve months into the project implementation period, or
almost from the outset, sensitivity calculations pointed up the marked variation in the economic
rates of retum for the pastoral and cropping zones (ERR = 63%) and the slight variation in the
economic rate of return for the pastoral centers (ERR = 7%).
5.05   A number of factors lead to the conclusion that the economic rates of return for the
project and its components were poor: (i) it took longer than expected to develop a program of
action for the pastoral zone; (ii) long time overruns in building the pastoral centers and the fact
that they were out of operation for nearly two years; (iii) the adverse effects of the drought on
humans, animals (reduction of the herd to half the estimated 1979 figure) and natural resources
(destruction of pasture, in particular); (iv) the failure to achieve certain quantitative economic
objectives (see para. 5.03); and (v) transfer of ownership of a not insignificant part of the cattle
herd from pastoralists to other categories of owner (traders, civil servants).
5.06   Today, in the absence of adequate and reliable data (particularly stock breeding surveys
and surveys of pastoralists' incomes), calculation of the ERR can reflect only a part of the real
impact of the project. Attempts to calculate it (Table 7) give a figure of 3% -- on the basis of:
available data (particularly SEDES data on project success in eliminating parasites from 0.6% of
large ruminants and 1.3% of smallstock); an assumption that the most direct impact of the project
is to be seen in the birth and mortality rates for young animals up to age 12 months; and the
feedstuff and dried meat operations financed and/or supervised through the project.
5.07   If the benefits produced by animal health programs -- particularly the elimination of
rinderpest from the project area throughout tlse execution period -- are added in, then the ERR
would be significantly better. These programs were carried out with existing personnel and on the
existing herd, at little extra cost. The pre-project ERR estimate had taken the benefit of these
programs into account -- giving figures of 82% for the project as a whole, but 100% in the
cropping zone and over 100% in the pastoral zone, although only 8% for the pastoral centers and
17% on fattening operations. If it is assumed that rates were the same for the cropping and
pastoral zones, 3% for the pastoral centers and 0% on fattening operations, with the distribution
of costs remaining the same, then the ex-post ERR would be 54%. It might be objected that no
solid ex-post basis exists for determining the benefit from the elimination of rinderpest. It is here
that a problem inherent in ex-post evaluation arises: What would the situation have been
"without the project"? Or more specifically still, how many animals would have died from
rinderpest without the project? There would seem to be no way of obtaining a plausible answer
to this question. It might also be objected that animal health, being so profitable, should nc be
regarded as a project investment per se but instead as a current activity -- an objection we
support. However, if the ex-post ERR is to be comparable to the ex-ante ERR, it is a factor that
has to be taken into account: accorc'ingly, against the ex-ante ERR of 82%, the ex-post ERR is
estimated at 54%. Had the ERR been estimated ex-ante at 10% (the weighted average of the
8% rate for the pastoral centers and the 17% rate on fattening operations), then the comparable
ex-post ERR would be only 3%, as indicated in para. 5.06.
5.08   The financial effects of the project did not prove to be as estimated in the Appraisal
Report. For instance, after the 10-year point, project recurrent costs were not taken over either
by the Government (an initially projected share of CFAF 180 million per annum) or the
beneficiaries (an initially projected share of CFAF 300 million per annum). At the moment,



- 19 -
recurrent costs are being met through the Zinder Integrated Rural Development Project
(financed by CCCE), which is continuing Livestock Project activities. Although it is difficult to
estimate what tax revenues are obtained from the country's pastoral zones, it is very likely that
any tax gains the Government can claim have been beiow those projected, given the effects of the
drought, the country's economnic situation, and the elimination of agropastoral export product
taxes in 1988 - all factors that have increased the public deficit.
5.09   As far as beneficiaries' incomes are concerned, it would appear on the face of it that there
has been no general improvement, since such economic components of the projects as the lending
programs for fattening, breeding and backgrounding could not be carried out as anticipated.
However, if the only criterion is the pattern of change in the size of the national herd in the
periods 1979-84, 1984-85, and 1986-89 (para. 5.03), there are grounds for assuming that
pastoralists' incomes followed the same pattern: growth in 1979-83, decline in 1984-85, and
growth in 1986-89. Studies are currently being conducted on the systems of production focused
around the pastoral centers, and it is hoped that, among other things, they will throw a clearer
light oii the economic impact of the project, and especially on pastoralist income levels. On the
other hand, it is quite clear, given the presence of the project in Zinder province, mainly through
the pastoral centers, that: (i) pastoralists in the project area are in a better position than those in
other pastoral zones (Tahoua, Filingué, Maradi and Diffa); and (ii) the number of animals
(natural increase plus herds that have returned) in the Zinder pastoral zone is higher than in
others, doubtless because of the quality of services introduced through the project.
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
6.01   This Livestock Project, whose impact is most apparent in the pastoral zone of Zinder
province, has contributed enormously to knowledge of Niger's entire pastoral zone through:
(i) the development of pastoral strategies designed to minimize the risks inherent in disturbances
in the climate pattern; (ii) specific programs designed to benefit pastoralists and in which their
participation is an essential element; and (iii) the social and political revitalization of an entire
region of the country. The Livestock Project can thus be regarded as a first, research-oriented
investment and one that will provide the foundation for a whole series of future investments of an
economic and social nature.
6.02   On the social level, the project identified the key social constraints affecting a population
that was previously little known and sociologically difficult to categorize; it was also the vehicle
from which action programs to overcome those constraints were launched. For instance,
resolution of supply and human health problems that were of major concern to the pastoral
population groups in the area enabled them to strengthen the links holding their family
production units together and to reduce the number of their moves from place to place, very
frequently the cause of poorer livestock productivity. In addition, the grouping of pastoralists into
associations (GMPs, GVCs) very closely concerned with their economic interests (management of
natural resources, cooperative retail outlets, credit facilities) significantly reduced splits along what
had previously been predominantly ethnic lines.
6.03   On the political level, the project meant that a large population group, which had long
regarded itself as deprived and marginalized, became reconciled with the central authorities.



- 20 -
Despite public investment in the 1960s in wells and classrooms (which had met witli little
acceptance), pastoral population groups had maintained a wait-and-see attitude to government
spending on goods and services really in keeping with their needs. Thanks to project strategies
and methods of intervention and to the presence of pastoral centers in the pastoral zone,
considerable catching up was achieved.
6.04   Execution of the project led donors like the Bank, USAID and CCCE to regard the
formation of pastoral associations and the granting to pastoralists of user rights over watering
points and surrounding pasture areas as prerequisites for the financing of new wells. Since the
Government failed to take the required steps (specified in Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement)
in this direction, the stance of the Bank and other donors toughened, with the result that most
new well programs in the project area were frozen and pastoralists' needs for watering points
consequently left unsatisfied.
6.05   Coverage under the animal health component of the project was effected through 10
vaccination campaigns, vaccinations on demand (blackleg, anthrax), and several rounds of anti-
parasite treatments. Thanks to the network of paraveterinary workers and efficient dissemination
of knowledge on anti-parasite products such as Thibenzole and Exelhm, new habits have been
adopted by pastoralists, who now buy what they need directly at market prices from village-based
veterinary pharmacies set up with project assistance, the Vétérinaires sans Frontiéres (a mobile
veterinary service) or retailers (taking advantage of new outlets).
VII. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE
A. Proiect Unit and Government Departments
7.01   Over the 10-year project execution period, the internal history of the Project Unit as an
institution was characterized -- except during the retraction phase -- by very considerable similarity
of views and aims between local and expatriate staff. The project directors during the start-up
and normal operations phases proved very adept at inspiring their teams with their own
enthusiasm for matters related to the pastoral zone and their determination to succeed. Today,
these two directors are personalities in Niger and have become its main repositories of
information on pastoral questions. Thanks to the quality of its staff and to their open contacts
with pastoralists, the Project Unit became a sort of de facto Pastoral Zone Authority. The
institutional objectives set for the project as a pioneering vehicle from which new activities and
specialized livestock services would be introduced into the pastoral zone were achieved through
(i) the formation of GMPs and pastoral centers and (ii) sound coordination of the activities of the
government departments concerned with the pastoral zone. From the standpoint of the Bank, the
Project Unit developed into an agency of that rarely found type equipped to speak with a national
voice on pastoral questions.
7.02   As to its institutional contacts with the outside world, the Project Unit worked at
establishing good relationships with the Livestock Department at both the headquarters and
regional levels so as to be able to call its attention to pastoral questions in particular. If these
efforts were not entirely successful during the 1979-83 period, the situation can be ascribed to
conflicts of personality, internal quarrels caused by misunderstandings, feelings of alienation on
both sides, and the determination among headquarters staff to impose themselves on an



- 2;1 -
experieniced and intellectually independent project management team. Throughout the project
period, information flows between the Project Unit and Ministry of Agriculture headquarters (the
Water Resources Department, in particular) never measured up to the expectations of either side.
At the regional level, the "financial and material power" of the Project Unit and the way its
structure paralleled that of the local technical service agencies gave rise to jealousies and disputes
over jurisdiction. These conflicts were settled following the departure of the main figures
responsible (whether expatriates or Niger nationals) from the Project Unit at the end of 1983 and
the appointment in December 1985 of the same individual as both project director and director of
the Livestock Department.
7.03   As to the actual implementation process, the Project Unit received steady support from
the regional authorities, particularly in the formation of the 18 GMPs in the North Gouré region
(see paras 3.21 and 5.02 (a)). The regional branches of the Livestock Department, however,
showed a degree of interest that varied depending on the particular project components. For
instance, although they took a very active part in vaccination campaigns, they did not develop the
same expertise on pastoral questions as project staff did over time. Although means of travel
were available through the project, Livestock Department staff undertook very few missions in
the pastoral zone. There are many indications that they showed no interest in pastoral questions
because of (i) the specialist role of the project and (ii) the lack of any strong technical
(veterinary) content in the project programs undertaken in the pastoral zone. For instance,
because of the novel nature of the moves made to organize the pastoral zone, Livestock
Department regional staff did not participate in them fully. In the cropping zone, the regionally-
based group, with assistance from paraveterinary workers recruited and paid for from project
funds, took part in animal health programs and fattening operations. The latter could not be
continued because of CNCA's financial difficulties, poorly prepared loan application files, and lack
of regular follow-up.
7.04   Generally speaking, central government agencies, with the exception of the Livestock
Department, did not follow project pastoral operations as closely as they should have. When the
authorities, including even the Livestock Department, did intervene, they expressed reservations,
particularly with regard to: (i) the political implications of project moves to vest pastoral groups
with exclusive rights; and (ii) the degree to which the Project Unit was separated from the usual
machinery of government. Furthermore, there was no permanent entity at the central
government level fully acquainted with and open-minded on pastoral questions. The authorities
did not always fulfill the commitments they had entered into with regard to: (i) the formation of
pastoral groups and the allocation of exclusive rights over watering points; (ii) the release of
counterpart funds required for the financing of the project; and (iii) acceptance of responsibility
for recurrent costs on completion of the project period.
B. Accounts and Audits
7.05   Project financial statements were issued regularly. Up until 1986, the project had an
expatriate serving as head of its Finances and Administration Division; on his departure, the
services of a local accounting firm were retained. The project acccunts, audited by an
international firm, were certified as satisfactory up until Septeinber 1983. During the period from
1984 to 1989, they were certified subject to the following reservations: insufficient funds
mobiiized, and suspension orders on CNCA accounts. As the international firm of auditors had
always provided fully satisfactory service, the Government and the Project Unit made no attempt



- 22 -
to terminate its contract, although no firm of auditors should be retained for more than three
years. During the 1985 first half, the Government ordered an official inspection of project
finances; as this revealed management errors, the financial administration of the project was under
a cloud for a certain time.
C. Expatriates
7.06   Five resident expatriates served as heads of the following Divisions of the Project Unit:
Finances and Administration, Pastoral Activities, Building Design and Construction, and
Monitoring and Evaluation. Each of them put in an exemplary performance, so much so that
they were subsequently retained to provide short-term consulting services for the project. The
first head of the Finances and Administration Division, who served for 12 months, could not
adapt to Niger for personal reasons. His successor, recruited in 1980, performed very
satisfactorily until 1986, when his contract ended; he quickly became an indispensable part of the
project team and contributed very notably to its performance as a unit. The head of the Pastoral
Activities Division, who spent long periods on mission in the pastoral zone, played a primary role
over the 1979-84 period in redefining the strategies and sequence of action programs
implemented there; in 1988, he was retained as a consultant to the project, with the mission to
carry out studies on the pastoral zone of Maradi province, for which his expertise in pastoral
questions suited hirr, admirably. At the present time, he is working in the pastoral zone of Zinder
province on questions of rural development. The two other expatriate heads of Division were
also hired as independent consultants to the project, to cotitinue the programs they initiated in
their respective spheres while members of project staff.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
A Resident Mission
8.01   Although the Resident Mission was given no appointed role or assigned any specific tasks,
it provided support for Bank staff members on supervision missions and for Project Unit staff. It
took part only once in a full scale project supervision exercise, but was represented at all wrap-up
meetings held on completion of visits by the project officer. This supn)ort went hand in hand with
regular project follow-up activities in the intervals between Bank supervision missions, with
several missions to the pastoral zone, and with the presentation of information on the project to
donors and consultants.
B.. Headguarters
8.02 The composition of Bank missions remained fairly constant. In addition to the leader,
they included a number of specialists (in architecture, training, livestock fattening). During the
10-year implementation period, Bank supervision missions were led by two project officers -- one
from 1980 to 1982 and the other from 1982 to the project closing date -- or by the leader of the
1979 appraisal mission. This relative stability not only led to sound knowledge of the realities of
the pastoral zone, but also explains the flexibility shown by the Bank in connection with: (i) the



- 23 -
failure by the Borrower, as of December 31, 1979, to fulfill its commitments vrith regard to the
"taking of all legislative and administrative steps necessary to authorize the establishment of
associations of pastoralists pursuant to authorized charters, a model of which, setting forth their
rights and obligations, including exclusive rights to the use of watering points, shall have been
approved" (Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement); and (ii) the changes made in the project
design. Despite often strained relations between Niger government officials and Bank missions,
Bank staff devoted much of their time to: (i) ensuring that the links between the project and the
central government would produce the best results for all concerned; and (ii) persuading the
various Ministers who succeeded one another to push for government decisions on vesting
pastoralists with rights to watering points and adjacent pasturing areas. Bank missions were also
very strict in their vetting of the procurement procedures used.
IX. LESSONS LEARNED
9.01   As far as first investment of development of Government in pastoral zones, the Livestock
Project has proven to be a useful instrument of dialogue between the farmers and the
administrative services. The successive approaches that the project has implemented to answer to
the needs of the farmers have favored i) a better appreciation of the pastoral world and ii) a
better target for the services required for the improvement of the economic production of the
pastoral zones.
9.02  'Ihis Livestock Project was the source of a whole series of lessons during its 10-year
execution period, both for its designers and all those who took part in the implementation
process:
Institutional
(a)    The fact that the project functioned as a separate organization that paralleled government
technical service departments helped create certain tensions between it and the
authorities. Although not all the results achieved during the 10-year implementation
period would have been possible without the project organization, it is virtually certain
that there would no longer be any question of creating a project agency separate from the
government apparatus should any new livestock program be planned. Instead, the new
program would be run by the Administration and its technical services departments,
although the operating unit actually responsible for it would be allowed the necessary
flexibility and room to maneuver.
(b)    Selection of professional personnel to work in pastoral zones needs to be more rigorous
and should be based on the following criteria: motivation, ability to work sociably as part
of a group, initiative, psychological ability to live in a desert environment.
Scope and concept
(c)    The Government and the Bank were very ambitious in wishing to cover all pastoral zones
in the provinces of Maradi, Zinder and Diffa in the space of five years. Actually, project
effort was concentrated on the pastoral zone in Zinder province throughout the 10-year
execution period, and work to consolidate results there is still necessary. Despite recent



- 24 -
studies by consultants in Maradi and Diffa, more thorough knowledge of their pastoral
zones needs ta be assembled and the corresponding action programs launched.
(d)   The project relied heavily on a strategy for pastoral zones based on orderly
implementation of a certain sequence of action programs. However, in practice it became
evident that the drought factor had not been taken into account sufficiently, in the sense
that alternative courses of action had not been developed. Today and in the future, any
development program in a pastoral zone must allow whatever flexibility and innovation are
needed to deal with eventualities of this type.
(e)    Where establishment of the boundaries of pastoral units and the vesting of pastoralists
with user rights to watering points are project goals, they should be modulated and
adjusted to suit the groups present in the area while fostering the rapid evolvement and
development of pastoral systems. The success of this project in creating GVCs and in
granting rights over watering points to pastoralists in the North Gouré region was a
reflection of the sociopolitical characteristics of the groups occupying the area. Today,
there has to be a consensus on the concept of priority rights not only among pastoralists
but also within the Administration.
Ecology
Not all project objectives were met. For instance, in the absence of any decision
regarding the legal instruments dealing with the granting to pastoralists (Section 3.06 of the Credit
Agreement) of exclusive rights of use over watering points (including public watering points
already in existence), it was impossible to carry out the project component calling for the
construction of new wells. One of the consequences of this was that the pastoralists tended to
destroy their immediate environment (trecs, etc.) in the business of sinking private wells. In the
future, even if legislation of this type does exist, the demands of environmental protection and the
need to meet pastoralists' requirements for water should mean that development operations in
pastoral zones are focused on the rehabilitation of existing private stock wells (or on sinking new
wells adjacent to old ones).
Results
The Livestock Project is the only component of the Pastoral Zone Modernization
Program to have associated research with material investment (building, creation of infrastructure,
etc.) and it is this factor which enabled it to achieve tangible results. Also distinguished by a high
degree of flexibility, attributable to the imaginative approach taken by its staff team, it
demonstrated that improved productivity throughout the pastoral zone is within the realm of
possibility and that the national economy as a whole profits from recovery in the pastoral
economy. Instances of the success of its adaptive research approach (learning by doing) are the
soundly run pastoral retail outlets, increased livestock productivity, progress with credit facilities,
reconstitution of the herd with assistance from other donors (CARE International, ILO, etc.).
Innovative approach
The project has been the only one that has focused on front-line action in the pastoral
zone. Because this brought it face to face with the problems that most concern Niger's pastoral



- 25 -
population groups, it was able to adjust its goals and methods of intervention as required. Toward
the end of the implementation period, it associated the pastoralists themselves with well
construction, a move which facilitated the granting of exclusive rights. All development programs
in pastoral zones -- and, by extension, in all types of zone -- need to be founded on the same
approach. It should be noted that the project played a primary role in setting in place the
organization called for by Niger's concept of itself as a Société de Développement.



Table 1
- 26 -
Table 1 - Livestock Project: Balance Sheot, 1980-89
(CFAF miltion)
ASSETS
Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30
1980        1981        1983        1985         1988        1989
A. CAPITAL ASSETS                      268          739       2,198       2,958       4,276       4,432
Capitaltized expenses, project         131         331          976       1,565       2,515       2,620
Equipnent, project headquarters         66          151         189         102          98          98
Equipment, tivestock services
agencies                             71         257          657         759       1,031        1,031
Equipment, pastoral services             0           0          376         532         490         578
Construction in progress                                                                142         105
B. INVENTORY                            24          25           55          34          25          23
C. CURRENT AND LIQUID ASSETS           288         299          374         441         240         226
TOTAL                             580       1,063        2,627       3,433       4,541       4,681
LIABILITIES
Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30    Sept. 30
1980        1981        1983        1985         1988        1989
A. CAPITALIZATION                      425         830        2,131       3,202       4,491       4,638
of which IDA Credit 885-NIR           237         554        1,68        2,606       3,803       3,949
B. SHORT-TERN DEBT                     155         233          496         231          50          43
TOTAL                             580       1,063        2,627       3,433       4,541       4,681



2 7-                                         Table 2
Table 2: KEY INDICATORS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1989
Actuel
Unit Appraisal      79-83      84-85        86-89     79-89
Forecast Years 1-4 Years 5-6   Years 7-10 Years 1-10
CIVIL  WORKS                            ........      .........  -        .......        .........
Pastoral Center                    No.          5         0          5             1         6
and Service Poste
Stock Wetts                        No.         30         0          0           16         16
Veterinary Posta                   No.         il        10          O            0         10
Livestock Dept, Diffa              No.          1         1          0            0          1
Market Rehab.                      No.         21         0          0            0          0
Steughtershed Construction         No.          2         0          0            0          0
Staughtershed Rehab.               No.          O        53          0            0         53
Stock Routes                       No.          7         0          0            0          0
Vaccination Parks                  No.          0        20          O            0         20
PRODUCTION FACTORS
Deworming, smatlstock             1,000        40         0          0            0          0
Anti-parasite treatments,
smnst(tock                      1,000       520       337          G          236       573
Anti-parosite treatments,
cattie                          1,000       131       113          0           45        156
Minera( Supplements                ton        660        24          4            3        31
Calf feedatuffs                    ton         90         0         10            0         10
Vitamin Supplements               1,000       230        20         20           33         73
VACCINATION
Anthrax, smattstock               1,000     2,716        22          0           39        61
Anthrax, canels                   1,000        60         0          0            0          0
Rinderpest, smattstock            1,000     4,073        25          0        2,857     2,882
Blekleg                           1,000      n.a.        62         79          208       349
Rinderpest                        1,000      n.a.     4,550      2,223        2,421     9,200
Anthrax, cattte                   1,000      n.a.       593          0           70       663
Pasteureltosis, large ruminants  1,000       n.a.         n          o           34        34
Pasteureltosis, smattstock        1,000      n.a.         0          0           91        91
Animal health care consultations
at 6 pastoral centers            1,000      n.a.         0          O           31        31
Individuel animal treatments
in Project Ares                  1,000       n.a.       136        88           264       488
HERD SIZE tTLUs)                                     END  83  END '85       END '88
1979                        1000TL    2,075      2,400      1,332        2,000
1989                        1000TL    2,399
PASTORAL ASSOCIATIONS
W                                No.       n.a.        71         24           50       145
GVC                              No.       n.a.         O          0            9         9
COOPERATIVE OUTLETS                No.       n.a.         O          C           13         13
LIVESTOCK LOANS
Breeding                           No.        110         0                                 0
Backgrounzding                     No.        200         0                                 0
Fattening, cattte                 No.       7,500     1,258                             1,258
Fettening, sheep                   No.      8,000     1,607                             1,607
AGENTS TRAINED THROVGH PROJECT
Paravet. worker - livestock        No.        250       200          0           48       248
Paravet. worker - health           No.        100        62          0           89        161
Field Service Unit Manager         No.          5        20          0            0        20
Coop. Outlet Manager               No.          O         O          0           13         13
MEDICAL CONSULTATIONS             1,000       200         0          0          184        184



- 28 -                                              Table 3
Page 1 of 2
TABLE 3: PROJECT COSTS BY YEAR (CFAF M)
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4           Year 5
79-80            80-81             81-82            82-83             83-84
est. actuaL      est.  actuai      est. actuat       est. ectuwt      est. actuat
.....  ......  .....  ......  ......  .....  ......  .   .  .. .
PASTORAL ZONE
Civil 0lorks         28,080        0   11,198       0  41,969         0  21,600         0       0        0
Vehicte/eqip            214        0      171       0   13,544        0      652        0      652       0
Inputs               14,212   11,488   9,673   22,338   12,563  46,542   13,539   28,995   19,522    7,072
Staff                          2,827       0   5,070   4,275   11,175   4,275   13,031    4,275   14,041
operating costs         770  25,476       770  48,475    1,090  66,758    1,090   76,477    1,090  68,417
Sub total          43,276  39,791   21,803   75,883  73,441  124,475   41,156  118,503   25,539  89,530
PASTORAL CENTERS
Civit Works          58,720        0  58,720        0  58,270         0  117,439  207,679       0 338,797
Vehicte/eqip         10,500        0   10,682       0   10,885        0  24,273   31,950    3,658    5,310
Inputs               11,434        0   13,312       0   15,566        0   29,421       0   8,496         O
Staff                 4,848        0   9,696        0   14,544        0  24,240         0  24,240   7,439
Operating costs       2,662        0   5,418        0   7,773         o   12,910        0   12,822       O
Sub total          88,164        0  97,838        0  107,488        0 208,283  239,629   49,216 351,546
CREDIT PROMOTION
Breeding/backgroundi      0        0   6,805        0   17,212        0   27,273        0  53,765        0
Pre-hervest grain lo      O        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        O
Livestock feed loans      0        O       °        O        O        O        o        o       o        o
CROPPING ZONE
Clvil Works          35,138  34:378 245,894  136,545  45,085  165,740          0  27,255        0        0
Vehicle/eqip         46,543  22,440  28,530   19,209  21,690  66,132   33,459           0  22,469        0
Inputs               20,824    5,987   17,985   14,854  22,298   18,602  34,337   21,072  33,760   18,932
Staff                17,250   5,931   25,672   13,602  27,193   29,843   27,193   21,504  27,193  23,710
Operatin3 coste      34,395   39,522  35,036   74,573   35,197  95,463   35,197  130,293   35,197  88,541
Sub total         154,450  108,258 353,117 258,783  151,463 375,780  130,186  200,121  118,619  131,183
FATTENINO CREDITS
Sheep
Cattte             30,648    4,230   47,608  24,720  63,271   54,280   59,314         0  55,353        0
PROJECT MGNT UNIT
Civii Works          29,743   12,858       0  56,196         0   17,710        0        0       n   2,77e
Vehilte/eqip         36,413  63,267   8,926  50,434        160  115,910   19,227  16,571       160     405
Staff                76,543   7,126  86,266   8,867  96,742   19,250  84,171   30,823   23,409  22,286
Oporating Costs      37,347  37,592  38,843   57,099  33,498  62,418   28,153  112,557  28,153  103,644
Sub total         180,046  120,843  134,035  172,596  130,400 215,288  131,551  159,951   51,722  129,113
Base Costa          514,008  290,546 661,206  531,982 543,275  769,823  597,763  718,204 354,214  701,372
Physical
Contingencies        32,150            47,376     -     33,187     -      37,037     -      9,232        0
Price Contingencies   18,326    -      73,340     *     97,582     -    153,479            110,851       0
TOTAL               564,484  290,546 781,922  531,982 674,044  769,W   788,279 718,204  474,297 701,372



Table  3
- 29 -                                  Page 2-of 2
TABLE 3, cont'd.
Year 6               Year 7             Year 8              Year 9            Year 10            Totat
84-85             85-86              86-87              87-88              88-89              79-89
est.    actuat    est.    actuat    est.    actuat    est.    actuaL    est.    actual         est.
.....  ...... .....  ...... .....  ......                         ...... ----- ........
PASTORAL ZONE
Civil works                 0        0        0    3,700         0         0         °   85,088        0         0   102,838
Vehicteleqip                O        O        O         O         O        O         O        O        O         0    15,233
Inputs                     O         O        O         O        O         O        O         O        O        0    69,509
Staff                       0   11,860        0   19,522         0   19,695          0   10,876        0   14,210    12,S25
Operating costs             0   22;688         0   42,521         0   48,272         0   33,312        0   10,853      4,810
Sub total                 0   34,548        0   65,743         0   67,967         0  129,276         0   25,063   205,215
PASTORAL CENTERS
Civil Works                 o        O        O                  0       587        0    4,313         0   86,821   293,599
VehicLe/eqip                0    9,119        0    2,487         0   36,659         0   33,105         0    1,244    60,008
Inçuts                      0        0        0    9,848         0    8,910         0    8,884         0    3,172    78,229
Staff                       O    o,444        0    6,802         0   14,708         0   34,817         0   30,266    77,568
Operating costs             0    1,416        0   26,360         0   11,652          0   15,833        0   10,903    41,585
s,b total                 0   16,979        0   45,497         0   72,516         0   96,952         0  132,406   550,989
CREDIT PROMOTION
Breedinglbackgroundi        O        0        O                  O         O        O         O        O        0   105,055
Pre-harvest grain lo        O        O        O                  0         O         O        O        O        O          O
Livestock feed ltans        O        O        O                  n         a        o         0        o        o          o
CROPPING ZONE
Civit Works                 O        O        O                  O         o        o         o        o      588   326,117
Vehicte/eqip                O        O        0    8,820         0   29,668         0   48,575         0   25,464   152,991
Inputs                     0    5,484         0                  0         0        0        0         0        0   129,204
Staff                       0   19,110        0   22,497         0   22,599         0   22,976         0   21,496   124,501
Operating costs             0   47,586        0   89,034         0  111,554         0   69,966         0   94,926   175,022
Sub total                 0   72,180        0  120,351         0  163,821         0  141,517         0  142,474   907,835
FATTENING CREDITS                                                                                                          g
Sheep                     O        O        O                  O         O        O         O        O        O
Cattie                    O        O        O                  O         O        O         O        O        0   256,194
PROJECT HGHT UNIT
CIvit Works                 O        O        O                  O         O        O         O        O         0    29,743
Vehicteleqip                0    1,698        0                  0   24,891         0   32,576         0        0    64,886
Staff                       0   31,494        0   28,313         0   43,158         0   36,943         0   27,679   367,131
Operatng costs              0   72,535        0   31,291         0   73,957         0   74,721         0   70,979   165,994
Sub totel                 0  105,727        0   59,604         0  142,006         0  144,240         0   98,658   645,178
Base Costs                  0  229,434        0  291,195         0  446,310         0  511,985         0  398,60? 2,670,466
Physical
Contingencles               O     -           8         O        0                                     O             158,982
Price Contlngencies         O     *O                             O                  O      -           O             453,578
TOTAL                       O  229,434        0  291,195         0  446,310         0  511,985         0  398,601 3,280,026



JO  -                                   Table 4
TABLE 4: SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS
(CFAF 1)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Year 6  Yeer 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Total
79-80    80-81    81-82    82-83    83-84    84-85    85-86       86-87   87-88      88-89    79-89
Civil Works                 47,236  192,741  183,450  234,934  341,575          0    3,700       587  894,101   87,409 1,181,033
IDA                      47,236  192,741  183,450  234,934  341,575          0    3,700       587   89,401   87,409 1,181,033
Vehictes and Equipment      85,707   69,643  182,042   48,521    5,715   10,817   11,307   91,218  114,256   26,708   645,934
IDA                      85,707   69,643  182,042   48,251    5,715   10,817   11,307   91,218  114,256   26,708   645,934
Input SupqLies              17,475   37,192   65,144   50,067   26,004    5,484    9,848    8,910    8,884    3,172   232,180
Beneficiaries            17,475   37,192   65,1h4   50,067   26,004    5,484           0        0        0         0   201,366
IDA                           0        0        0         0        0         0    9,848    8,910    8,884    3,172    30,814
Staff                       15,884   27,539   60,268   65,355   67,476   68,908   77,134  100,160  105,612   93,651   681,987
Goverrvnont               7,200   11,400   10,400   10,700   18,500   19,800   24,300   24,700   26,000   24,400   176,400
FNI/IDA                   8,684   17,139   49,868   54,655   48,976   49,108   52,834   75,460   49,612   69,251   505,587
FMI                       3 039    5,999  17,454   19,129    2,449    2,455    2,642    3,773    3,981    3,463    64,383
IDA                       5,645   11,140   32,414   35,526   46,527   46,653   50,192   71,687   75,631   65,788   441,204
Operating Costs            102,590  180,147  224,639  319,327  260,602  144,225  189,206  245,435  193,832  187,661 2,047,664
FNI                      35,907   63,051   78,624  111,764   13,030    7,211    9,460   12,272    9,692    9,383   350,394
IDA                      66,684  117,G96  146,015  207,563  247,572  137,014  179,746  233,163  184,140  178,278 1,697,270
Credit for Training          4,230   24,720   54,280         0         0        0         0        0        0         0    83,230
CNCA                      4,230   19,180   40,550         0         0        0        0         0        0         0    63,960
IDA                           0    5,540   13,730         0        0         0        0         0        0        0    19,270
seneficiaries                                                                                                                O
Studies                     17,424                                                                                         17,424
iDA                      17,424        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0    17,424
o
TOTAL                      290,546  531,982  769,823  718,204  701,372  229,434  291,195  446,310  511,985  398,601 4,889,452



Table 5
- 31 -
tABLE 5: CO-FINANCING SY DONOR t1979-89)
ICFAF M)
Year 1              Year 2              Year 3            Year 4              Year 5
79-80              80-81               81-82             82-83                83-84
IDA      222,695     76.6%  396,160      74.5% 557,652      72.4%  526,543      73.3%  641,389     91.4%
FNI       38,946      13.4%    69,050     13.0%  96,077      12.5%  130,894     18.2%   15,479      2.2%
Gov't       7,200      2.5%    10,400      2.0%   10,400      1.4%   10,700      1.5%   18,500      2.6%
CNCA        4,230      1.5%    19,180     3.6%   40,550       5.3%        O      0.0%        0      0.0%
Benef.     17,475      6.0%    37,192      7.0%   65,144      8.5%   50,067      7.0%   26,004      3.7%
......            ......              ......             ......             ......
TOTAL     290,546    100.0%   531,982    100.0%  769,823    100.0%  718,204    100.0%  701,372    100.0%
Year 6            Year 7             Year 8              Yesr 9             Year 10            TotaLs        X
84-85              85-86              86-87               87-88              88-89              79-89
IDA       194,483    84.8%   254,793     87.5% 405,565      90.9%  472,313     92.3%  361,355      90.7% 4,032,949    82.5%
FUI        9,667      4.27.   12,102      4.2%   16,045      3.6%   13,672       2.7%   12,846      3.2X    414,777     8.5%
Oov't      19,800      8.6%    24,300     8.3%   24,700      5.5%   26,000       5.1%   24,400      6.1%    176,400     3.6%
CNCA            O      0.0%         0      0.0%       O       0.0%        O      0.0%        0      0.0%    63,960      1.3%
Benef.      5,484      2.4%         O      0.0%       0       0.0%        O      0.0%        0      0.0%    201,366     4.1%
TOTAL     229,434    100.0%  291,195    100.0% 446,310    100.0%  511,985    100.0% 398,601    100.0% 4,889,452    100.0%



- 32 -                                        Table 6
Table 6: STAFF COMPLEMENT
Estimated at    9/30/83    9/30/85   9/30/89       Observations
Appraisal
Veterinariens
Director Generat                            1          1           1         1     3 Directors in 10 years
Chief, DAZ                                  1          1           1         1     3 DAZ chiefs in 3 years
Sociologist                                            1           1         1     2 sociologists in 7 years
Paraveterinary Workers
Pastoral Centers                           5           5           5         5     recrulted 1983
Mew Veterinery Posts                       il                               10
Drug end Feed Supplement                    3          2                     3
Promotion
monitoring (fattening)                      2          2                     0
Other DAZ Operations                                   1                     3
DAP                                                    2                     1
Other Livestock Workers
Pastoral Centers                           5                       5         6
Fettening                                  5           5          0          0
Other DAZ Operations                                   3           3         3
Expatriates
Chiof, DACF                                 1          1           1         O     contrect expired In 1986
Chief, DAP                                  1          1          0          0     contreot expired in Aug. 1984
Chief, DAC                                 1           1           1         0     contrect expired in 1986
Chief, DSE                                 1           1           1         0     controct expired in 1986
Miscel eneous
Head, Credit Operations                    t           1           1         1
Heada, Care Centers                                               5          6
Technical Agents, Cooperativ'                          0          5          6
Accountants                                 1          1           1         1
Ahuinistrator, Vehicles                     1          0           0         1
Coordinator, grain supplies                 1          1          0          0
Bookkeepers                                2           3          3          3
Dreftsmmn/cartographer                      1          3          3          1
Survey Workers                             2          13          1          0
Survey Clerical Staff                                  2          2          3
Secretaries                                5           4          4          2
Storemen                                   5           1           1         1
Drivers                                    19         25          22        12
orderlies                                  5           1           1         1
Clericel Workers                                       1                    12
Guards                                                 4          4          2
Laborers                                               8                     1
Mechanics                                   0          0          0          2     Hlred to eut down vehicle
TOTAL                                    80          95         72         89     mainentemme coast



Tabte 7: EX-P0ST ASSESSMENT OF ECONbMIC RATE OF RETURN
7.1 Basic Date in ERR Calcutation
(CFAF M)
Benefit t        Benefit 2        Senefit 3     Benefit 4    Benefit 5    Benefit 6       Totat    Net benefits
(c6f mortat-      srattstock      (<rortaiity   (tivestock     (dried      tcoops        Benefits
ity wlu'out  rnortality wfl'out  young carnets  foodstuffs)     meat)      profits)
Actuat  Costs in   anti-parasite    anti-parasite   w/w'out enti-
costs   constant    treatments)       treatments)       parasite
79/80 prices                                  treatments)
79-80     1     291       291               66                72              5            0            0            0           143         -148
80-81     2     532       474               68                74              5            0            0             0          147         -327
81-82     3     770       647               68                76              5            O            O            O           149         -498
82-83     4     71t       569               72                76              4            O            O             0          154         -415
83-84     5     701       524               69                68              4            O            O             0          141         -383
84-85     6     229       18t               45                46              4         1100           95             0         1290         1109
85-86     7     291       221               46                48              4          396            û             0          494          273
86-87     8     446       326               41                47              3            0            0            Q            91         -235
87-88     9     512       360               42                50              4            0            0             0           96         -264
88-89    t0     399       270               48                52              4            0            0            17          121         -149
11-30      50        33              48                 52             4            0             0           17          121            88
ERR = 3.006            j



7-2. Herd/Flock Sizes in the Project Area
TW Ratings
cattte     0.8 TLU
sheep =    0.16TW
goats      0.16TLU
camets =   1.0 TLU
horses z   1.0 TW
donkeys =  0.5 TLU
Province of Zinder with Project
Cattte        Sheep        Goats       Camets       Horses      Donkeys Total (ILUs>
79                  620,000      758,000    1,752,000        85,000       76,000      133,000  1,125,100.0
80           1      680,000      830,000    1,795,000        80,000       76,000      133,000  1,186,500.0
81           2      691,560      891,377    1,841,152        81,600       81,656       70,660  1,189,038.6
82           3      705,391      927,000    1,887,180        83,232       42,322       72,023  1,176,147.1
83           4      822,511      931,628    2,093,959        80,700       67,320       83,000  1,331,622.7
84           5      739,573      945,982    1,367,585        82,912       58,293       78,716  1,142,392.1
85           6      347,405      622,94;    1,288,000        65,254       24,988       42,380    695,107.0
86           7      352,695      648,9iM    1,321,000        66,585       25,394       43,245    710,941.5
87           8      357,985      674,856    1,354,051        67,917       25,800       44,110    726,785.1
88           9      363,354      701,850    1,489,456        69,275       26,212       44,992    759,275.2
89          10      497,836      719,668    1,562,439        70,591       50,806       90,637    930,121.4
Province of Diffa with Project
Cattle        Sheep        Goats       Camets       Horses      Donkeys Total TLtUs)
79                  477,000      233,000       742,000       51,000     19,000.0     41,000.0    628,100.0
80           1      492,000      239,000       907,721       47,000     19,000.0     42,000.0    664,075.4
81           2      502,927      250,25,       761,000       50,556     20,000.0     43,000.0    656,198.1
82           3      S95,250      258,500       799,525       50,500     20,000.0     44,000.0    657,984.0
83           4      500,200      269,568       818,667       52,550     20,000.0     45,000.0    669,327.6
84           5      504,204       280,551      839,134       53,601     46,000.0     20,873.0    692,550.3                       i <
85           6      551,496       291,564      907,721       54,672     47,021.0     21,207.0    745,378.9                      CR Cr
86           7      560,368      301,769       925,876       55,553     47,982.0     21,556.0    759,030.6                        LD
87           8      422,945      347,184       755,200       43,119     46,047.0     20,642.0    614,224.4                      '-n
88           9      426,408      353,426       765,620       43,654     46,763.0     20,977.0    621,079.3                       o
89          10      434,936      367,563       784,761       44,527       47,511       21,397    635,057.3                       N t



Continued:
Province of Maradi with Project
Cattte        Sheep        GOats       Carets       Horses      Donkeys Total (TWs)
79                  486,000      414,000    1,159,000        37,000       24,000       63,000    732,980.0
80           1      434,000       473,000    1,188,000       50,000       33,000       63,000    727,460.0
81           2      443,000       585,000    1,218,000       51,000       34,000       64,000    759,880.0
82           3      451,000      612,185    1,248,000        52,000       34,062       65,545    m,264.1
83           4      429,000      640,000    1,126,000        23,000       35,000       57,000    712,260.0
84           5      439,635      410,675    1,288,198        21,423                              644,950.7
85           6      201,912       147,333      241,086       15,505                              239,181.6
86           7      211,200       154,700      252,500       15,800        1,100        7,000    254,512.0
87           8      221,000       162,500      265,300       16,100        1,118        7,280    266,106.0
88           9      231,200       171,000      278,300       16,406        1,152        7,571    278,191.5
89          10      241,835       179,600      292.000       16,718        1,187        7,574    290,616.0
n
ZONE TOTALS          Cattte        Sheep        Goats        Canets       Horses      Donkeys Total (TLUs)
79                 1,583,000    1,405,000    3,653,000      173,000      119,000      237,000  2,486,180.0
80           1    1,606,000    1,542,000    3,890,721       177,000      128,000      238,000  2,578,035.4
81           2    1,637,487    1,726,630    3,820,152       183,156      135,656      177,660  2,605,116.7
82           3    1,651,641     1,797,685    3,934,705      185,732       96,384      181,568  2,611,395.2
83           4    1,751,711     1,841,196    4,038,626      156,250      122,320      185,000  2,713,210.3
84           5    1,683,412    1,637,208    3,494,917       157,936      104,293       99,589  2.479,893.1
85           6    1,100,813    1,061,841    2,436,807       135,431       72,009       63,587  1,679,667.6
86           7    1,124,263    1,105,369    2,499,376       137,938       74,476       71,801   1,724,484.1
87           8    1,001,930    1,184,540    2,374,551       127,136       72,965       72,032  1,607,115.6
88           9    1,020,962    1,226,276    2.533,376       129,335       74,127       73,540  1,658,545.9
89          10    1,174,607    1,266,831     2,639,200      131,836       99,504      119,608    1,855,795
oeI 
<O Il-
iQ <
o .
it 



TAISLE 7-3: IMPACT OF ANTI-PARASITE TREATHENTS ON CALF HERD SIZE (calculation of BENEFIT 13
Hypotheses:
Herd rate (mates)                                             0.3
Herd rate (females of reproductive age)                       0.4
1979       1981       1982       1983      1985        1986     1987
Calving rate without anti-parasite treatments                                     0.6
Calving rate uith anti-parasite treatments                                                  0.65        0.65       0.65     0.65        0.65      0.65
CaLf  ortatity rate without enti-paresite treataents                             0.33
Calf mortality rate with anti-parasite treatments                                           0.25       0.25        0.25     0.25        0.25      0.25
Percentage treated for parasites                                                           0.006      0.006       0.006    0.006       0.006    0.006
Percentage not treated for parasites                                                       0.994
Percentage of femates among cattte treated for parasites                                     0.8
(the project emçhasized treatment for breeding animats)
Total      Catves    No. of      Females of  Calving   Calves    No. of   Calving    Calves        Total   Impect of  Average    VaLue of
cattte   surviving   head not reproductive   rates   surviving   heed   reate mith  surviving   calves    anti-          price    increment
herd in     after     trested        age      without    after    treated   anti-      Wfter      survivlng  parasite   of calf  In calf
proJecty  mortaLity     for                    anti-   mortatity    for   parasite   mortatity  with and  treatnents               herd due
area    without     parasites               parasite  without parasite treatments with anti  without   on no. of                 to enti-
anti-                            treatemen   anti-                        parasite    anti-    surviving              parasite
parasite                                      paresfte                      treatments parasite   calves                treatments
treatments                                  treatments                                 treatments
1,583,000    254,546  1,573,502     629,401   337,640   253,019
1,606,000    258,245  1,596,364     638,546   383,127   256,695    9,636        5,011      3,758    260,453      2,209   30,000 66,257,136
1,637,487    263,308  1,627,662     651,065   390,639   261,728    9,825       5,109       3,832    265,560      2,252   30,000  37,556,164
1,651,641    265,584  1,641,731     656,692   394,015   263,990    9,910       5,153       3,865    267,855      2,271   30,000  68,140,101
1,751,711    281,675  1,741,201     696,480   417,888   279,985   10,510       5,465       4,099    284,064      2,409   30,000  72,268,589
1,683,412    270,639  1,673,312     669,325   401,595   269,068   10,100       5,252       3,939    273,008      2,315   30,000  69,450,845
1,100,813    177,011  1,094,208     437,683   262,610   175,949    6,605       3,435      2,576    178,525       1,514   30,000  45,415,141
1,124,263    180,781  1,117,517     447,007   268,204   179,697    6,746       3,508       2,631    182,328      1,546   30,000  46,382,594
1,001,930    161,110    995,918     398,367   239,020   160,144    6,012       3,126       2,345    162,488      1,378   30,000  41,335,624
1,020,962    164,171  1,014,836     405,934   243,561   163,186    6,126       3,185      2,389    165,575       1,404   30,000  42,120,808                        C
1,174,607    188,877  1,167,560     467,024   280,214   187,744    7,048       3,665      2,749    190,492       1,615   30,000  48,459,593



7-4. lqsct of Anti-Parasite Tretnsnts oun Sn1stc.ck
(celculation of tnefit 2>
lypotheses:
Nord rate (nies)
Nerd rite (feates cf reproductive            0.4
Pirth rate vithout anti-parasite treatsents             1.05
*frth rate uith anti-parasite treatnnts                              1.15
NortLlîty rate tombs,  ithost ontl-peras1te treat      0.33
Nortailty rate tld, uith anti-parasite treatnents                   0.25
Percentage treated for parasites                                   0.013
Percentage not trented for parasites                               0.987
Percentuge cf mlistock fen tes trested for parasites                 0.8
tThe proJect ephasized nti-parasite treatuents
for breeding mnimuts)
Total       Larbs       Total     Fentes of    *irtht   Young suni-  Snitstock  Soeuistock  Young smmli- Total young    Impact of    Average    Value of
satt-    surviving      ss t-   reproductive  wfthout  stock survi-  treated         births   stock survi-  sallstock anti-parasite   price    Incraent
stock in   without   stock not        aie        anti-    ving after       for      uith anti-  ving after  wuth tnd    treotment    of Young   In young
project      anti-      treated                 parasite   oortatity  parasites   parasite    ortatlit         mithout     on no. of   smalstock   due to
ires     parasite       for                  treatuent    without                  treatrent  with anti- antl-parasite    young                  anti-parasit      *ô
treatient  parasites                           anti-parasite                           parasite   treatuent    sanwtatock                treateent
tremtment                           treatment                  survfvlng
5058000   1,42312zt  4,992,246    1,996,898   2,096,743    1.404.818
5,43Z,721   1.526.768   5.362,096    2,144.838  2,252,080    1,508,894      70,625       64,975      48,732     1.557,625       28.858       2.500  72.143,819
5,546,782   1,560,864   5,474,6î4    2,189.870  2,299,363    1,540,573      72,108       66,340      49.755    1,590,328        29,43        2.500  73,658,492
5,732.390   1.613.095   5,657,869    2,263.148   2,376,305    1,592,124     74,521       68,559      51,420     1,643,5U4       30.449       2,500  76,123,273
5,879,822   1,654.582   5,C03,384    2,321.354   2,437,421    1,633,072     76,435       70,323      52,742     1,685,814       31.232       2,500  78,081,096
5,132,125   1,444,180   5,065.407   2,026.163   2,127.471    1,425,406      66,718       61,380      46,035     1,471,441        27,261      2,500 68.152,054
3,493.648    984,520  3,453,166    1,381,266   1,450.330       971,721      45,482       41,844      31,383     1,003,104        18.584      2,500 46,460,296
3,60,745   1,014,375   3,557,883    1,423,153  1,494,311    1,001,188       46,862       43,113      32,335     1,033,523        19,148      2,500 47,869,211
3,559,09t  1,001.528  3,512,823    1,405.129   1,475.386       988,508      46.268       42,567      31,925     1,020,433        18,905      2,500 47,262,949
3.759.652   1,057.966  3,710,m       1,484.311   1,550,526    1,044,213     48,a75       44,965      33,724     1,077,937        19,971      2,500 49,926,299
3,906.031   1,099,157   3,855,252    1,542,101  1,619,206    ,Oa4,868       50,778       46,716      35,037    1,119,905        20,748       2.500 51,870,133
foaug sntistock    uit ruminants aged 0-12 mnths
.ID



7-5 IMPACT OF ANTI-PARASITE TREATMENtS ON CUIEL NERD
<calculation of 8enefit 3)
Hypotheses:
Herd rate (mles)
Herd rate (females of reproductive age)              0.4
Birth rate vlout anti-parasite trestmenet            0.6
Birth rate wlth anti-parasite treatment             0.65
Nortallty rate Wlout anti-parasite treatment        0.25
nortatity rate vith anti-parasite tretement       0.0006
Percentage treated for parasites                  0.9994
Percentage not treated for parasites                 0.8
S of feales treaSted fer parasites
(the project ençhasized anti-parasite treotment for breedins enimats>
Total   Young      No. of  Females of  Blrths    Young         Blrths     Young   Total   Inpact of  Average  Value of
camt   camels    camels  reproductive without   comels   with anti-  camels  yowfg            anti-      price  increment
herd ln  surviving   not        age        anti-   surviving  parasite surviving  cames   parasite         of      in young
project  uithout   treated                parasite    after    treatment  after   with &   treatment   young  camet herd
area     anti-       for                treatment mortaLity             mortatity  without on no. of   caime       due to
parasite  parasites                      w/out anti-                      anti-       yowlg                anti-
treatment                                 parasite                        parasite   camels              parasite
treatment                       treatrent surviving           treatment
79   173,000   27,818   171,962      68,785    27,651
80   177,000   28.462   175.938      70,375   28,291        1,062         552      414   28,705        243   20,000 4,868,208
81   183,156   29,451   182,057      72,823    29,275       1,099         571      429   29.703        252   20.000 5,037,523
82   185,732   29,866   184.618      73,847   29.687        1,114         579      435   30,121        255   20,000 5,108.373
83   156,250   25.125   155,313      62,125    24,914         938        488       366   23,340        215   20,000 4,297,500
84   157,936   25,396   156,988      62,795   25,244          948        493       370   25,613        217   20,000 4,343,872
85  135,431    21,777   134,618      53,847   21,647          813        423       317   21,964        186   20,000 3,724,894
86   137,938   22.180   137,110      54,844    22,047         828        430       323   22,370        190   20,000 3,793.847
87   127,136   20,443   126,373      50,549   20,321          763        397       297   20,618        175   20,000  3,496,749
88   129,335   20.797   128,559      51,424   20,672          776        404       303   20.975        178   20,000 3.557.230
89   131,836   21,199   131,045      52,418   21,072         791         411       308   21,381        181   20,000 3,626,020
g>



Tables 7.6 and  7.77
7-6. Inpact of Distribution of AnimaL Foodatuffs: Calcutation of Benefit 4
In 1984/85, the project distributed: 5,146,000 kg
In 1985/86, the project distributed: 1,854,000 kg
Hypotheses:
1. These foodstuffe Cottonseed) were
used for a poriod of:                              10 months
2. Dalty needs/TLU                                    3.5 forage units (FUs)
3. 1 kg of cottomneed equivatent to:                  1.1 FUs
4. Standard cottonseed ration                         3.5 kg or 4.8 FUs
5. Number of days                                     300
Estimated nurber of tLUs salvageabie if             4,901
cottonseed solo source of food
Estimated number of TLUs salvageabte if            19,604
cottonseed provides 25X diet suppLement            Crounds up to 20,000)
Price of meat                                         440 CFAF
Meat equivalent of 1 TLU                              125 kg
Value of TLUs satvaged in 1984/85                     1.1 billion
Value of TLUs salvage in 1985/86             396,307,812 CFAF
7-7. Impact of Dried Meot Operation, 1984-85 (calculation of Benefit 5)
Cost price of fried mest                            2,300 CFAF
VoLwiu of meat dried                              41,484 kg
Cost of operation (or savings effected)       95,413,200 CFAF



IBRD 13721R
I                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIG ER
b                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK PROJECT
A       G        A        D        E      Z          ~       -i*                                                                 /       FEAL IOAr: o,lSIapgNe
I                                                %AngOR~~I. 5 LOCATIONS TO BS DETERMINSO N TIGAI  PASTORAL ZONE
'oS  b2grI«D:T-srroi$r4or-'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  y                                                         ,~~~~~~~~               -    TARRED OREOAD      RINS   N H PSTRA ZN
5~~~;7%§  -~~~~~~~'~~~~~;  'b      N    Q         R                                        LS~~~~~~~~~~~~~SsonîIr                                 AIRPORTS~~~~~~MAN ARET
<10~~~~~~~~~~~~~  o'   Z   /                                                                                                                  PR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOINCEAPYMARKES
K                "y                                                                                      I            C   H   A   D           O    DI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRICT CAPITAES
~~TKIfSUA?r   -   Vrgnnur                                                     t                         3s                                           O   ADMINISTRATIVE F0518~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAIIE  AAD
~~~~~  -  -,           t                                                                                   t>                                   O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ATHERIT TDWNS
i F   FOIVES AM
12g  \Snuzn  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MARADI                                                                                                            --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- SIVE~~~~~~~RACS
J5.j~                                                                                                                                                                               ADM'01- - INITERNATIONA  PONSARTS
îo~~~~~~~~~~~   90IÇ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' g    C'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       0 OHR  ON
OUA'  O   (   0103011 TaIriola  0 'g--,  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOYESINM
PROIANCE BoeNEARI/
M   ngr                                                                                                                                INE NAIOA    UNARE
MM...0-gg                                                                                                                                                                              A\....>              ALGERI
iD                                                                    14                               ArLrrJT,Cci  :4   NG-""'
NOVSMBER 1990



