Document of'
The World Bank                        7J`
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2169-NIR
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 28, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                        CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000                    US$4.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)              0.62 miles
1 square         2
kilometer (km )            0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                2.20 pounds
1 metric ton         :         0.98 tons
ABBREVIATIONS
APMU       Bank Agricultural Projects Management Recruitment Unit
CNCA       Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
OFEDES     Office des Eaux du Sous-sol
(Groundwater Development Agency)
OPVN       Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
(National Food Marketing Agency)
PMU        Project Management Unit
PY         Project Year
RMWA        Bank Regional Mission for West Africa
UNCC       Union Nigerienne de Cooperation et de Credit
(National Cooperative and Credit Organization)
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government and Project:        October 1 - September 30
IDA                    :       July 1    - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ..............................................                        1
A.    Project Background  ...............          ..     ................        1
B.    The Rural Sector ................          ..      .................        1
C.    The Livestock Subsector  ............................                       2
D.   Livestock Subsector Strategy and Issues  ............                        4
Il.    THE PROJECT AREA  ........................................                        5
A.    Physical Features  ..................................                       5
B.    Population and Facilities  ..........................                       6
III.    THE PROJECT           .....................................                        7
A.   Objectives and Summary Description  .................                        7
B.   Detailed Features  ..................................                        8
C.    Cost Estimates  .....................................                     15
D.    Proposed Financing .................................                       15
E.    Procurement and Disbursement  ..........           ..     ...........     17
F.    Accounts and Audit ...............           ..     ................      19
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .....               ........................        19
A.    Project Management Unit  ............................                     19
B.    Staffing               ...........................................        21
C.    Training  ....... ...............             .....................       23
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................                      24
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  ...                       24
A.    Production  ....... ..............             ....................       24
B.    Markets and Prices  ...............          ..     ................      26
C.    Producer Incomes  ...................................                     28
D.    Financial Implications for Government  ....... .......                    29
VI.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .........             ..     ..........     30
A.    Project Benefits  ...................................                     30
B.    Economic Analysis  ..................................                     30
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........ ..                 .........     33
This report is based on thz findings of a Bank mission which visited Niger in
April/May 1978,  comprisin0 Messrs. D. Steeds and F. Leduc  (Bank) and Messrs.
R. Biscaldi, M. Horowitz and G. Tacher (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                              Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   Responsibilities and Qualifications of Key Personnel                     36
2.   Supporting Tables (listed below)                                         40
3.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File                 47
LISTS OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
3.1  Main Project Inputs                                                      14
3.2  Summary Project Costs                                                    16
4.1  Project Staffing                                                         22
5.1  Livestock Technical Coefficients                                         25
5.2  Livestock Production                                                     27
6.1  Economic Costs and Benefits                                              32
LIST OF SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
TABLES
1.   Project Costs by Year                                                    40
2.   Project Financing Details                                                41
3.   IDA Disbursement Categories and Schedule                                 42
4.   Pastoral Center Beneficiaries Cash Flow                                  43
5.   Breeding Loan Recipients Cash Flow                                       44
6.   Backgrounding and Fattening Loan Recipients Returns                      45
7.   Governnent Cash Flow                                                     46
CHARTS
IBRD No. 19078    Implementation Schedule                                    48
IBRD No. 19077    Organization and Management                                49
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD No. 13722    Location of Project Activities



NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The project was identified in November 1976 by RMWA, prepared by
consultants in early 1977, and pre-appraised in January 1978. Further prepa-
ration was undertaken in March 1978 by Government's Livestock Department,
assisted by a RMWA staff member. Discussions with Government on a possible
livestock project began as early as 1969 and various project concepts were
explored and rejected. The proposed project foeuses on smallholder livestock
producers. It would consist--in the semi-arid pastoral zone--of an innovative
approach to provision of a package of services to pastoralists and--in the
cropping zone--of a series of specific livestock-related actions.
B. The Rural Sector
1.02      Niger has a population of about 5 million of yhom over 4 million
live in rural areas. The country covers 1.3 million km , of which 75% is
desertic, 15% semi-arid, and less than 10% suitable for crop production and
even this is of very low potential. About half the people live between the
southern border with Nigeria, where annual rainfa 1 is 700-800 mm, and the
500 mm isohyet. In this area of about 100,000 km , the main crops are cereals,
groundnuts, cowpeas and some cotton. Further north, as rainfall declines and
becomes even more variable, rainfed cropping becomes increasingly precarious
and livestock production increasingly important.
1.03      In 1970, the rural sector accounted for about 60% of GDP and 80% of
exports. Now, the sector accounts for about 40% of GDP and 30% of exports.
This dramatic change reflects the rapid rise in uranium production but also
poor performance in the rural sector. Recent crop production has been dis-
appointing, particularly groundnuts for which production has declined, due to
low producer prices and disease, from over 200,000 tons to less than 50,000
tons and exports have virtually ceased; although farmers have switched into
grains and cowpeas, crops now account for less than 30% of GDP and 10% of
exports. Livestock production was disrupted by the 1973 drought which
according to Government estimates reduced the national herd from 4.2 million
cattle to 2.2 million and from 9 million smallstock to 7 million. Although
herd reconstitution has begun, pre-drought cattle numbers cannot be reached
for another decade. Increases in prices of livestock products have, however,
largely offset the reduced volume of production; livestock now accounts for
12% of GDP and 20% of exports.



- 2 -
C. The Livestock Subsector
1.04      Productivity and Output: The cattle health situation is broadly
under control and there have been no significant losses from contagious dis-
eases for many years. Emphasis is given to strict prophylactic measures
against rinderpest, which is disappearing, and contagious bovine pleuropneu-
monia, which is a threat in the east and the west of the country. Recently,
efforts have been initiated to promote calf drenching agairist internal para-
sites.  For the cattle herd, pre-drought survey results revealed modest produc-
tivity levels, with a calving rate of 60% and a first year mortality rate of
35%. Although no post-drought surveys have been undertaken, there has been
no significant change in livestock inputs or management methods and produc-
tivity has probably remained unchanged; the cattle offtake rate is about 11%.
For smallstock and camels, the animal health situation is less well controlled
but also less clearly understood; vaccines against anthrax in smallstock and
camels have only recently been made available. Recently, t.oo, efforts have
been initiated to promote drenching of smallstock against internal parasites.
Very little is known about productivity of smallstock and camels; by inference
from surveys undertaken in neighboring countries, the offtake rate is about
25% for sheep, 35% for goats, and 9% for camels. Total meat output is cur-
rently about 70,000 tons per year worth about CFAF 25 billion (US$110 million).
1.05      Production Systems and Income:  Apart from a few state ranches and
some smallholder fattening in the south of the country, livestock is raised
by traditional means. Although there are both nomads and wholly-sedentarized
livestock producers, traditional animal husbandry is mainly a transhumant
activity, whereby herds are moved north behind the rains and south in the dry
season. For about eight months a year herds are watered from wells which,
until about 20 years ago, were privately constructed and owned, generally by
groups of pastoralists but also by individuals where water was at shallow
depth. Over the last two decades, however, Government has constructed modern,
concrete-lined wells and some diesel-powered tubewells that are open to
all-comers. Over 90% of the cattle are managed but not necessarily owned by
the Tuareg and Fulani people, who each make up about 10% of the Nigerien
popula.tion. The extent to which management and ownership are separated is not
known but it is common and has increased as a consequence of the drought;
there has, however, been no discernible decline in demand for vaccinations.
1.06      The integration of livestock and crop farming is still very limited.
One widespread but modest link is obtained through contracts between pasto-
ralists and sedentary farmers whereby animals grazing crop residues fertilize
the fields. A more substantial link is beginning to be practised in the south
of the country; crop residues are harvested and stored for feeding to horses,
sheep and goats kept in farmers' compounds. Very recently, cattle fattening
has been started. Animal traction is little used, except for the drawing of
water, but there is growing demand for work oxen and carts and, to a lesser
extent, implements for cultivation.



-3-
1.07      The impact of the drought varied considerably, depending mainly on
the degree of mobility of livestock producers. In 1974, it was estimated that
about 75,000 families had lost most if not all their animals. An unknown
number of these people have emigrated but there is some evidence to suggest
that such migrations are temporary if not seasonal rather than permanent. Any
estimation of an average income from livestock necessarily disguises a wide
range of income; and little is known about the dispersion of income about the
average. Nonetheless for an average pastoral family of 7 people, owning 20
cattle and 50 smallstock, the annual income from livestock in 1978 would be
about CFAF 150,000 (US$680), plus milk worth about CFAF 60,000 (US$270).
Additional income from cropping, fishing and commerce varies considerably.
1.08      Marketing:  Animals are marketed through a traditional private system
in which pastoralists sell stock either directly or through professional col-
lection agents to large traders. Main markets have no facilities for cattle
handling or veterinary control. Apart from export of about 500 tons per year
of chilled meat, animals are moved on the hoof to both domestic and foreign,
mainly Nigerian, consumption centers. Over half the cattle offtake but less
than 10% of the smallstock offtake is exported. Processing: Abattoirs in-
clude a modern refrigerated facility at Niamey with a capacity of 120 cattle
per day or about 5,000 tons per year; throughput is about 80% of capacity. New
abattoirs are being built at Zinder, Maradi, Tahoua and Arlit; elsewhere,
there is a good network of slaughter slabs. There is one tannery at Maradi
with a capacity of about 800,000 skins per year; throughput is about 60% of
capacity. Taxation: Government has attempted to collect livestock taxes
by means of head taxes, export duties and licence fees. Livestock head taxes
were abolished in 1973 and total annual tax revenue is now about CFAF 200
million (US$0.9 million) or less than 1% of Government revenue. In early 1978,
Goverument abolished the head tax payable by all adult citizens; now, livestock
producers pay no taxes to central Government, and livestock vaccinations are
free of charge. Farmers, too, pay no taxes to central Government but they
have access to subsidized crop inputs as well as better access than pastoral-
ists to public health and education facilities. Throughout the country,
public wells are constructed free of charge, except that the beneficiary
community sometimes furnishes the unskilled labor required.
1.09      Services and Institutions:  The Livestock Department of the Ministry
of Rural Development has about 300 technical staff, including 15 veterinarians.
Its main responsibility is animal health for which it undertakes annual vacci-
nation campaigns against rinderpest and pleuropneumonia, specific campaigns
against other diseases where outbreaks occur and, at veterinary posts, it pro-
vides curative treatment services. Government budgetary allocations to the
Livestock Department in 1978 amount to CFAF 400 million (US$1.8 million), with
70% for staff. The provision of animal husbandry advice has received little
attention until recently; efforts are now being made to promote use of feed
supplements and drugs against internal parasites. A Herd Reconstitution
Service was created in 1976 to be responsible for loans to destitute pastoral-
ists and management of state breeding ranches. Other institutions active in
the livestock subsector include: the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole



- 4 -
(CNCA) which finances credit for cattle fattening and animal traction; the
Union Nigerienne de Cooperation et de Credit (UNCC) which promotes the forma-
tion of cooperatives in the cropping zene and assures input supply anH primary
crop marketing; the National Livestock Company, a para-statal body which
manages a ranch and participates in cattle marketing in the west of the
country. Rural water supply is the responsibility of the Office des Eaux du
Sous-sol (OFEDES), a Government agency with financial autonomy, which con-
structs and maintains stock watering points throughout the country. OFEDES is
a well-managed organization, with a network of regional bases that are working
effectively. Other services to the subsector include vaccine production,
disease diagnostics and livestock research, all undertaken by the livestock
section of the National Agricultural Research Institute. Technical training
takes place at (a) the Livestock Assistants and Agents School in Niamey, which
produced 16 three-year Assistants and 19 two-year Agents in 1978; (b) the Agri-
cultural Technical College in Niamey, which graduated two livestock technical
officers in 1978 and will produce six per year thereafter, and (c) foreign
universities for advanced studies - in 1977, 27 Nigeriens were abroad studying
veterinary science. Training programs still put emphasis on animal health
rather than animal production. On the other hand, the recently-revised
curriculum of the Rural Development Institute at Kolo includes some courses in
animal production.
D. Livestock Subsector Strategy and Issues
1.10      Government's main objectives for the livestock subsector are, first,
herd and flock reconstitution, second, increased animal productivity to gener-
ate exports at the pre-drought volume and, third, management of the semi-arid
pastoral zone so as to preserve its ecological balance. No corresponding
strategy has been developed with the result that a variety of projects using
different approaches has been designed, including state ranches, state breeding
centers, and provision of services to pastoralists. While not incompatible,
these approaches all require staff knowledgeable about animal and pastoral
production, yet such staff are scarce. Staff allocation and training policies
are therefore critical, for they will determine the pace at which different
approaches can be pursued.
1.11      Government's approach for services to pastoralists was, until
recently, limited to provision of vaccinations and stock watering points.
These measures were and remain necessary but have had undesirable side effects.
In particular, they induced rapid herd growth resulting in high stocking rates
and over-grazing particularly around public wells which, in turn, caused high
cattle losses during the drought. Now, Government recognizes these deficien-
cies and considers that, through the recognition of associations of pasto-
ralists, it should be possible to (a) allocate stock watering points and there-
by pasture to specific associations and (b) emphasize improved animal husbandry
rather than herd growth as a means to increase output. Government's current
approach for the provision of services to pastoralists is, therefore, a blend
of its earlier approach and the newly-recognized need to increase animal and
pastoral productivity through increased pastoralists' participation. There



-5 -
are, however, different perceptions within Government of the difficulty and
purpose - ranging from politico-administrative to productive - of obtaining
pastoralists' participation; but some differences are to be expected, since
the approach is innovative and little is known about the behavior of pasto-
ral people. Project execution will therefore entail much learning by doing
and project management as well as Government will have to be both flexible
and patient.
1.12      The physical production potential of the semi-arid pastoral zone
is not great but, in the aftermath of the drought, it is not being fully
exploited. There are, now, opportunities to accelerate the growth of cattle
numbers, to improve livestock productivity, and to increase the physical
potential through better management of natural resources. In the cropping
zone, by contrast, there is now little scope to increase herd numbers but
there are opportunities to increase livestock productivity. The proposed
project provides the means to take advantage of each zone's opportunities.
In the long term, the livestock industry can be expected to become increasingly
specialized by zone: breeding in the semi-arid pastoral zone, backgrounding 1/
in the intermediate cereals zone, and fattening in the southern mixed cropping
zone.
Previous Bank Group Involvement
1.13      Whereas this would be the Bank's first livestock project, livestock
components are being financed under two ongoing projects. Under the Drought
Relief Project (CR 441-NIR), the Bank has financed construction of two state-
run calf feeding lots, as part of the national herd reconstitution program.
Under the Maradi Agricultural Development Project (CR 608-NIR) which is
progressing satisfactorily, the Bank is financing vaccinations, drugs, credit
for redistribution of animals to destitute pastoralists, and preparation of
a livestock project, namely the project now proposed. The Bank is also con-
sidering a livestock component under the Dosso Agricultural Development
Project which was appraised in December 1978.
Il. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
2.01      The pro ect area would includg the three provinces (sye Map) of
Maradi (39,000 km ), Zinder (145,000 km ) and Diffa (140,000 km ). Covering
the whole of the south-east of the country, the project area would extend
about 800 km east-west and about 400 km north-south. The north-eastern part
of the project area has a saharan climate with annual rainfall of less than
200 mm.  Between the 200 mm and 350 mm isohyets the area is essentially
pastoral; the legally-defined Pastoral Zone closely follows these isohyets.
1/   Purchase of 12-18 month cattle, growing them out over 18-24 months, and
sale to fatteners.



- 6 -
Further south, the cropping zone can be divided into an intermediate agro-
pastoral zone bounded by the 350 mm and 500 mm isohyets, and a mixed 2ropping
zone, where rainfall exceeds 500m2m; the latter covers only 40,000 km  in the
total project area of 320,000 km * The coefficient of variation of annual
rainfall increases from about 20% in the south to over 30% in the north of
the project area. Drought is therefore common but the likelihood of a drought
of the severity as that of 1973 is low; it was recently estimated at 0.02.
2.02      There are no perennial water courses.  Irrigation is possible
from the Goulbi Maradi in the south-west of the project area, and from the
Koumadougou, which forms the boundary with Nigeria in the south-east, but
the combined potential is only a few thousand hectares.  Intra-annual fluc-
tuations in the level of Lake Chad permit flood recession cultivation, but
in competition with pastoralists seeking dry season grazing. Groundwater
availability is well known except in parts of the intermediate zone; the
depth to groundwater is generally 50-60 m except in the south-east of the
project area where water is found at less than 30 m.
B. Population and Facilities
2.03      The human population of the project area is about 2 million of
whom about 1.6 million are sedentary crop farming people, mainly Hausa; the
remainder, mainly Fulani and Tuareg people, are primarily if not exclusively
pastoralists. The livestock population of the project area is about 1.3 mil-
lion cattle, 4.3 million smallstock and 0.1 million camels, in each case
about 50% of the national herds.
2.04      The two towns of importance, Maradi and Zinder, each have about
50,000 inhabitants. There are 14 other administrative centers in the project
area, each with a population of a few thousand. A paved road links Niamey
to Zinder and Goure to Lake Chad; construction will soon begin on the 180 km
stretch between Zinder and Goure. Maradi and Zinder are both less than 300 km
from Kano in Northern Nigeria, to which they are both linked by paved roads.
In much of the south of the project area, the medium of exchange is the
Nigerian Naira, traded at about half the official rate of CFAF 380 per Naira.
The rural road network in the cropping zone of the project area is well
developed; by contrast, the tracks in the pastoral zone require four-wheel
drive vehicles. Primary schools, adult functional literacy programs, medical
dispensaries, village health worker training programs, and cooperatives are
concentrated in the southery cropping zone; in this area, population density
typically exceeds 25 per km . Further north, production techniques are
necessarily more extensive, the human population less dense and more mobile
and it is accordingly more difficult and expensive to provide services; and,
until recently, not much thought was given to providing such services.



- 7 -
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      The main objectives are (a) to increase incomes through increased
livestock productivity both in the pastoral and cropping zones, (b) to obtain
pastoralists' participation in efforts to improve management of their animal,
water and pasture resources, (c) to broaden the field of competence of the
Livestock Department from provision of animal health services to provision
of animal and pastoral productivity services, and (d) to increase and improve
cattle and sheep fattening by smallholders in the cropping zone.
3.02      The project, to be implemented over five years, would include:
(a)  delivery of drugs and feed supplements, and new vaccines
that are not at present readily available, throughout the
project area;
(b)  delineation of pastoral units based on traditional land-
use patterns, formation and recognition of associations
of pastoralists, and construction and operation of five
pastoral centers which would each serve several associations
of pastoralists;
(c)  provision of a package of services to associations of
pastoralists, including animal health, supplies and
advice on animal husbandry and range management tech-
niques, and selective extension of stock watering points;
in the five pastoral centers the services would also
include human health and food stocks;
(d)  credit, to be operated through associations of pastoralists,
for backgrounding of immature steers and, for destitute
pastoralists, for constituting breeding herds;
(e)  extension of the existing animal health and marketing infra-
structure by (i) construction of 11 veterinary posts and 20
vaccination yards; (ii) improvements to two main, six sec-
ondary and 13 small markets; (iii) construction of two
small abattoirs, (iv) marking out of seven stock routes;
and (v) rehabilitation of slaughter slabs;
(f)  credit for, and advice on, cattle and sheep fattening by
smallholders;
(g)  vehicles and equipment, some additional staff, and new
offices at Diffa, for the Livestock Department;
(h)  staff and buildings for a project management unit, which
would also be responsible for preparation of a follow-up
project.



- 8 -
The project is envisaged as the first phase of a continuing program of live-
stock development. Depending on the results obtained under the proposed
project, a follow-up project would provide financing for more pastoral service
centers and more backgrounding, breedi-k6 a -,a'      cng C-.CJits; in adjition,
the organizational framework will have been set up to permit more specific
range management activities.
B. Detailed Features
Vaccines, Drugs and Feed Supplements
3.03      Vaccinations against the major cattle diseases have been undertaken
for over 20 years and, though still necessary, are by now routine and do not
constitute a project activity. By contrast, drugs and feed supplements have
only recently begun to be made available. The effectiveness of vaccination
campaigns could nonetheless be improved by modernizing and assuring sound
maintenance of cooling equipment, and the project would provide for this.
Their effectiveness could also be improved by better communication between
pastoralists and Livestock Department staff whereby misunderstandings about
the perceived needs for, and risks of, vaccinations could be overcome. This
would be facilitated by the undertaking early in PY1 of an inventory of
vernacular concepts of animal health, diseases and cures, which would also
provide a framework for the promotion of drugs. The inventory would seek out,
in particular, where the traditional Touareg and Fulani classifications differ
from those of modern French veterinary medicine, and from each other; then,
and based on the success of unpaid village human health workers in Niger, the
project would train local animal health workers, who would also be unpaid ex-
cept for an adequate sales commission. These paraveterinary workers, equipped
with a medical kit to be replenished through sales revenue, would provide a
front-line first aid, health and referral service, and a two-way information
channel between pastoralists and Livestock Department staff. The main drugs
and feed supplements to be sold--both by paraveterinary workers and by Live-
stock Department staff--would be (a) smallstock drenches, (b) calf drenches,
(c) smallstock dewormers against tape worms and liver fluke, (d) trypanocides
for camels, (e) calf supplement for the end of the dry season, (f) mineral
supplement for young stock and cows, ewes and she-goats, and (g) vitamin
supplement for young stock and breeding stock for use at the end of the dry
season.
3.04      Currently, the annual cattle vaccination campaign :Lasts four months
whereupon staff, and particularly vehicles and equipment, are relatively under-
utilized. By working to promote drugs and feed supplements, the project would
make use of this spare capacity though additional investments would also be
required. Given the ensuing practical problem of distinguishing project from
non-project activities of the Livestock Department, it was agreed at nego-
tiations that all expenditures for existing staff and vaccines against
contagious cattle diseases would be excluded from the project, but that all
expenditures for purchases of new vehicles and equipment, anC operating
costs for both existing and new vehicles and equipment would be included.
While Government can be expected to continue to pay all existing staff, and
to acquire finance for vaccines, an assurance was nonetheless obtained at



negotiations that Government would make explicit budgetary provision for
purchase of vaccines against contagious cattle diseases throughout the project
area for the duration of the project. The project would, on the other hand,
include provision of vaccines against anthrax in smallstock and camels, and
against smallstock plague. In addition, field tests now being undertaken in
Chad and financed by Credit 783-CD are soon expected to identify a reliable
combined vaccine against smallstock plague and para-influenza. If those tests
are successful, the proposed project would include large-scale tests of such
vaccines, to be undertaken with the assistance of three man-months of consult-
ant services. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that such tests would
be subject to IDA approval. A further assurance was obtained that drugs
(para. 3.03) and feed supplements would be sold, throughout the project area
for the duration of the project, at prices sufficient to cover costs of
purchase, delivery and final distribution, and that proceeds from such sales
would be put into a revolving fund.
Pastoral Units, Associations and Centers
3.05      A pastoral unit is a geographic area that is traditionally exploited
by a socially homogeneous group or by socially diverse yet clustered groups.
The project would identify such pastoral units and then build on their tradi-
tional social structures through the constitution of formal associations of
pastoralists. Identification would entail allocation of dry season and wet
season grazing grounds and transhumance corridors, as well as some areas com-
mon to several pastoral units in the extreme north and south. The identifica-
tion method has been tested in Chad under Credit 309-CD, and was successfully
used in Niger in August-September 1978 with financing from the Project Pre-
paration Facility. The identification team would work closely with represen-
tatives of government technical departments and traditional local authorities,
and would prepare an official minute and map of its work. Following each
year's pastoral unit identification work, through PY3, discussions would be
held with pastoralists with a view to forming an association, to which eligi-
bility for membership would be determined by the respective social group on
the advice of project management.  Official recognition would be given to
associations of pastoralists and their rights and obligations would be speci-
fied by law. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the appropriate
legal instruments would be issued by December 31, 1979, that they would
include allocation of exclusive rights to existing and any new watering points
to each association in its area, that they would also include a model charter
for an association of pastoralists, and that that charter would be subject to
consultation with IDA. In addition, Governnent prepared a first draft of
the charter which was discussed at negotiations. The project would provide
for the construction and operation of five pastoral centers, each of which
would serve several associations of pastoralists. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the final design and site selection of each center would
be subject to IDA approval.
Service Package to Pastoralists
3.06      All livestock producers would receive a more effective vaccination
service and better access to drugs and feed supplements. Those who are mem-
bers of associations of pastoralists would receive a broader package of



- 10 -
services, including: (a) priority for supply of drugs and feed supplements,
(b) treatments against worms and ticks, (c) materials for castration, (d) ac-
cess to two new forms of credit (para 3.07), (e) improvements to existing
wells and selective extension of stock watering points where warranted by
land-use patterns and carrying capacity, and (f) advice on range management
measures such as creation of grazing reserves, limitation of tree pruning and
bush fires, and the trade-off between productivity and herd numbers. First
priority for delivery of these services would be given to members of asso-
ciations within the sphere of influence, about 30 km radius, of pastoral
centers. In addition to animal health and productivity services to be pro-
vided from newly constructed and equipped livestock posts, the pastoral
centers would also provide human health services and food stock. In each
center, a small human health dispensary would be constructed, equipped and
operated from which unpaid paramedical workers, to be trained in existing
facilities, would be supervised and their medical kits replenished. Such
training and kits have been supplied since 1965 in Niger, but the action has
been concentrated in the cropping zone. A small warehouse would also be con-
structed in each center, for the storage of grain for human consumption and
other basic foodstuffs for sales during the late dry season. For human health
supplies and food stocks, sales proceeds would be used to set up revolving
funds for further acquisition of such supplies and stocks, and an assurance
in this respect was obtained at negotiations. The project would provide for
up to 30 new pastoral wells where warranted by land-use patterns and carrying
capacity; an assurance was obtained at negotiations that the project would
provide new wells only where an association of pastoralists had been consti-
tuted in an identified pastoral unit with sufficient grazing resources, and
that association had undertaken to provide all unskilled labor, in kind or in
cash, required for the well-digging. The latter condition would entail about
20 man-nL?nths labor contribution equivalent to about 5% of the cost of a new
well.
Credit Through Associations of Pastoralists
3.07      An existing herd reconstitution credit scheme provides loans to pur-
chase cattle for pastoralists and sedentary livestock producers who lost all
their animals during the 1973 drought. In an attempt to maximize the number
of beneficiaries, most loans have been for one animal only instead of a nucleus
breeding herd. Loans are made interest-free and, for cattle loans, are repay-
able in four equal instalments beginning at the end of the fourth year. For
the first repayments due in 1978, performance varied widely between local dis-
tricts but was generally poor. The project would support a new kind of herd
reconstitution credit, by financing the constitution of 110 breeding herds of,
for instance, five females together with ten immature males; loans would be
repayable over six years, after one year's grace. Depending on the benefici-
aries' preferences, loans would also be made for camel and smallstock breeding.
Recipients would be selected, on the basis of their destitution and livestock
expertise, by project management from nominations submitted by associations of
pastoralists. In view of the destitution of credit recipients, and the long
gestation period before herd growth provides adequate cash income for a family,
these loans would be interest-free. Credit to individual pastoralists would,
however, not be given without a guarantee from the respective association of
pastoralists; this would include a 10% cash deposit and a written commitment



- il -
to cover all defaults. The project would also support a second new kind
of credit, for the purchase of 1,000 immature cattle for backgrounding, or
growing-out on natural range, before resale for fattening. These loans, also
to be guaranteed against default by the respective associations, would not
exceed 80% of the purchase price, and would be repaid on resale of the animals
after about 18 months. Individual loans would be for a maximum of 10 and an
average of five immature cattle. Interest would be charged, as for the exist-
ing cattle fattening credit program, at 9.5% per year plus a premium (presently
1.5%) for a mortality guarantee fund. With negligible actual mortality, the
effective nominal rate would be 11% per year. Since average annual inflation
over the period 1975-77 was 8.5%, and though it may be somewhat higher over
the next three years, the real interest rate would be positive. Assurances in
respect of all credit policies and procedures were obtained at negotiations.
The modest scale of both breeding and backgrounding credits, which would con-
stitute 3% and 1% of project costs respectively, is due to their innovative
nature, their dependence on guarantees to be provided by associations of
pastoralists that are yet to be constituted, as well as the potential diffi-
culty of finding appropriate animals.
Livestock Department and Marketing Infrastructure
3.08      In order to provide better supervision of vaccination campaigns and
better access to drugs and curative services, the project would strengthen
the facilities of the Livestock Department in the cropping zone. Although
ownership and management are frequently separated (para 1.05), further infra-
structure is warranted and the project would provide 11 veterinary posts, 20
vaccination yards and new Livestock Department offices at Diffa. Apart from
the network of slaughter slabs and the four new municipal abattoirs (para
1.08), there have been no investments in marketing infrastructure. In order
to ensure better animal health control at markets and more hygienic slaughter
facilities in small centers, the project would provide for the construction of
two main, six secondary and 13 small markets, two slaughter sheds, and for the
rehabilitation of slaughter slabs. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that final designs for the two main markets, at Zinder and Maradi, would be
subject to IDA approval. The project would, in addition, provide for the
marking out of seven stock routes between main markets and the Nigerian
frontier, to be equipped with wells every 25 km. Compensation, if any,
payable to farmers would be financed by Government.
Credit for Cattle and Sheep Fattening
3.09      An existing credit scheme in the south of Zinder Province provides
loans for cattle fattening, with interest charged at 9.5% for 12 months plus
a premium (presently 1.5%) for a mortality guarantee fund. Credit is provided
by the CNCA using rediscount facilities from the Central Bank. Individual
loan applications are submitted through Village Solidarity Groups, a form of
precooperative, to the local UNCC agent who, together with the local Livestock
Department representative and the district sub-Governor, constitute a loan
approval committee. Final approval nonetheless rests with CNCA headquarters
in Niamey. The loan recipient does not receive cash; instead, he selects
his animal, negotiates the price and the local UNCC agent pays the seller
directly. The system, though cumbersome, is working well; in 1976/77, loans
were made for 2,000 cattle and repayments were 97%. There is, however, much



- 12 -
scope for improvement in the feeding and care of fattening stock. Through the
project, the existing scheme would be extended to Maradi Province, to provide
for the acquisition of 2,500 cattle for fattening per year by PY5, and to
finance staff who would work exclusively on improving cattie rattening pertorm-
ance. They would focus on efficient storage and feeding of cotton seed, bran
and legume hay, as well as basic veterinary measures. The existing credit
procedures would be followed except, and an assurance was obtained at nego-
tiations, that loan recipients would be charged interest for the exact period
for which the loan was outstanding instead of a fixed twelve-month period as
at present. In contrast to cattle, there is no existing credit scheme for
sheep fattening, yet because of the lower unit value it is a relatively well
established activity, usually managed by women. There is nonetheless scope
for expansion through short-term credit, provided women are permitted access
to credit. The project would therefore, beginning in Maradi Province, consti-
tute women's sub-groups within Village Solidarity Groups to whom credit for
sheep fattening, 3,500 loans per year by PY5, would be made available fol-
lowing the same procedures and with the same assurance as indicated for cattle
fattening.
Follow-Up Project Preparation
3.10      A follow-up project would be prepared before the end of PY4, to be
based on: experience acquired with the innovative aspects of this project;
the results of monitoring (para 4.11) of animal health and productivity
activities; results obtained in other livestock projects; and specific studies
to be undertaken. These studies would include, first, the identification of
health and productivity measures to be undertaken for camels. Ideas would
emerge from the far greater communication between pastoralists and staff
envisaged under this project, as well as feedback from the trained paraveteri-
nary workers; the incidence of infectious and parasitic diseases would be
examined through regular serum and faeces sampling. Consultants would be re-
cruited, for a total of six man-months, to help carry out this study, which
would be undertaken over a three-year period beginning in PYI. Second, a
study would be undertaken to identify improvements to be made in manual and
animal water extraction. Through regular, quarterly observations of selected
traditional and concrete-lined wells over three-day periods, the study would
assess the utility of cement curbstones, sluices to watering troughs, cement
or plastic bases, and better pulleys, cords and containers. Consultants would
also be recruited, for a total of four man-months, to help carry out this
study to be undertaken over two years beginning in PY2. Third, a study would
be undertaken of the production, marketing and potential markets for quilichi,
a form of spiced sun-dried mutton, which is produced in many parts of the
project area. This one-year study, in which consultants would participate for
two man-months, would be undertaken in PY3.  Final follow-up project preparation
would be undertaken by project management assisted by six man-months of con-
sultant services.
Implementation Schedule
3.11      Volumes of main inputs are shown at Table 3.1 and the phasing of
the main project activities is illustrated at Chart No. 19078. Pre-project



- 13 -
activities include the pastoral unit identification test undertaken in
August 1978 and preparation of the ethnoveterinary inventory by the Chief of
the Pastoral Activities Section, who has been identified. The pace of identi-
fication of pastoral units and constitution of associations of pastoralists
cannot be forecast with much certainty; yet these are prerequisites for con-
struction of pastoral centers and stock watering points, as well as inception
of the two new kinds of credit. The project would therefore give priority to
those prerequisites in PY1, including the launching of appropriate training
for staff and livestock producers. Training would continue for the duration
of the project.



_ 14 _
Table 3.1
MAIN PROJECT INPUTS
UhJit     Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           Total
Civil Works
Pastoral Centers                          No.           1          1          1          2          -            5
Pastoral Wells                            No.           6          6          6         12           -          30
Veterinary Posts                          No.           3          4          4          -           -          il
Market Improvements                       No.           -         10         il          -          -           21
Slaughter I;heds                          No.          _           2          -          -          -            2
Stock Route:s                             No.          -           7          -          -          -            7
Vehicles and Eau:Lpment
Pour wheel drive vehicles                 No.         ].3          8          1         15          8           45
Light vehicles                            No.         1.2          1          -         12           1          26
Trucks                                    No.          -           1          3          -          -            4
Ice-making machines                       No.          3           -          -          -          -            3
Radio Tran;3ceivers                       No.           2          1          4          2          -            9
Input Supplies
Incremental Drugs
Smallst,ck drenches  1/              '000          u2         44         89         148        207         530
Calf drenches                        '000          :L4        15          32         34         36         131
Smallstock deworming  2/             '000           2          4         10          12         12          40
Incremental Feed
Calf supplement                      tons          17         20          19         24         10          90
Mineral supplement                   tons          67        100         131        175        187         660
Vitamin supplement                   '000          29         36          52         72         41         230
Annual New Vaccinations
Smallstock anthrax                   '000         528        536        548         550        554       2,716
Camel anthrax                        '000          12         12          12         12         12          60
Smallstock plague                    '000         792        804        821         826        830       4,074
Loans
Breeding                                 No.           -          10         20         30         50          110
Backgrounding                            No.           -           -         20         40        140          200
Cattle Fattening                         No.         500      1,000       1,500      2,000      2,500       7,500
Sheep Fattening                          No.           -        500      1,500       2,500      3,500       8,000
1/ Round worms.
2/  Tape worms and liver fluke.



- 15 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      Total project costs for the five-year disbursement period beginning
October 1979 are estimated at CFAF 3.3 billion (US$15 million), with a foreign
exchange component of 52%. Costs exclude direct taxes and duties, as envis-
aged by Government. Base cost estimates reflect May 1979 prices, expected
date of effectiveness. Physical contingencies include 20% for civil works
in the pastoral zone, 10% for civil works in the cropping zone and for all
operating costs and new vaccines in both zones, but no provision for vehicles
and equipment, and staff, for which specifications and quantities are clearly
established. Expected price increases are compounded at the following
annual rates for both local and foreign costs; civil works: 7.5% to end-1979,
7% thereafter; all other items: 6.5% to end-1979, 6% thereafter. Total
expected price increases amount to 15% of total project costs. Costs are
detailed at Annex 2, Table 1 and summarized at Table 3.2.
D. Proposed Financing
3.13      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$12 million (CFAF 2.64 bil-
lion) be made to Government on standard terms to finance 80% of total project
costs. The credit would cover 100% of foreign exchange costs estimated at
US$7.9 million (CFAF 1.73 billion) and 58% of local costs estimated at US$4.1
million (CFAF 0.91 billion). Government would contribute US$1.5 million
(CFAF 333 million), or 10% of project costs, which would cover 35% of incre-
mental local staff salaries and operating costs. The CNCA would contribute
US$1.0 million (CFAF 214 million), or 6.5% of project costs, which would cover
all loans for cattle and sheep fattening. Beneficiaries would contribute
US$0.5 million (CFAF 113 million), or 3.5% of project costs, covering part of
the costs of pastoral wells, drug and feed supplement distribution, acquisi-
tion of immature males for backgrounding, and all incremental inputs for
cattle and sheep fattening. In addition, Government would continue to finance
the costs of local Livestock Department staff working in the project area,
about CFAF 70 million (US$0.3 million) per year, and would also finance the
cost of vaccines against contagious cattle diseases, about CFAF 20 million
(US$0.1 million) per year, but these are not included in project costs. The
financing plan is detailed at Annex 2, Table 2, and summarized on page 17:



- 16 -
Table 3.2
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
Share
of   Foreign
Project                                                               Total    Ex-
Component         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost  change
----(CFAF million)---  -----(US$ '000)------    (%)          (%)
Pastoral Zone
Extension
and Inputs        74      131      205    336      596      932       6     64
Pastoral centers 237       314      551  1,078   1,429   2,507        17     57
Credit            105        -      105    477        -      477       3      0
Subtotal       416      445     861  1,891   2,025   3,916        26      52
Cropping Zone
Extension and
Inputs           258      386      644  1,170   1,755   2,925        19     60
Marketing
Facilities       106      158      264    482      718   1,200        8     60
Credit            256        -      256  1,164        -   1,164        8      0
Subtotal       620      544   1.164  2,816   2,473   5,289        35      47
Management Unit    239       389      628  1,086   1,769   2,855        19     62
Base Cost
Estimate         1,275   1,378   2,653  5,793   6,267  12,060          80     52
Physical
Contingencies    60        99      159    275      448      723      5      62
Expected Price
Increases        234      254      488  1,064   1,153   2,217       15      52
Total Project
Cost          1,569   1,731   3,300  7,132   7,868  15,000    100          52



- 17 -
Government   CNCA    Beneficiaries       IDA    Total
              ~~~~(US$ '000)
Pastoral Zone
Extension and Inputs           28        -            12            892      932
Pastoral Centers              183        -            40          2,284   2,507
Credit                          -        -            30            447      477
Cropping Zone
Extension and Inputs          476        -             -          2,449   2,925
Marketing Facilities            -        -             -          1,200   1,200
Credit                          -       827          337              -   1,164
Management Unit                 445         -            -          2,410   2,855
Base Cost                     1,132       827          419          9,682  12,060
Contingencies                 382       145           95          2,318   2,940
Total Project Cost            1,514       972          514         12,000  15,000
Percentage                       10       6.5          3.5             80      100
3.14      The project account would be opened at the Development Bank of the
Republic of Niger at Zinder. Government would deposit an initial amount of
CFAF 150 million (US$0.7 million) into the account and this would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness. Government would replenish the account quarterly on
the basis of cash forecasts made by the project management unit in order to
have sufficient funds to meet project expenditures for the following three
months. An assurance in this respect was obtained at negotiations.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
3.15      Procurement of civil works with the exception of pastoral wells
(estimated cost US$3.3 million), vehicles and equipment (estimated cost US$1.5
million) and inputs with the exception of vaccines (estimated incremental pro-
ject cost US$1.2 million and estimated total cost US$3.8 million), would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in
the case of contracts over US$50,000.  In the case of contracts of US$50,000



- 18 -
or less but more than US$10,000, procurement would be through competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable to IDA.
For contracts of US$10,000 or less, direct competitive purchasing would be
employed. Pastoral wells (estimated cost US$1.3 million) would be constructed
by OFEDES (para 1.09) under a negotiated contract satisfactory to IDA since
there is insufficient competition among local contractors and insufficient
interest from foreign firms in dispersed rural works. Vaccines for small
stock and camels (estimated cost US$0.3 million) would be procured from the
livestock section of the National Agricultural Research Inst:itute, a non-
profit body with a proven record of quality products. Animals to be acquired
on credit and their feed (estimated incremental cost US$2.0 million) would be
procured locally by or with the concurrence of loan recipients. The services
of internationally-recruited staff and consultants (estimated cost US$1.3
million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA. Procure-
ment of local staff services (estimated cost US$1.9 million) and operating
cost items (estimated cost US$2.3 million) would not be suitable for com-
petitive bidding.
3.16      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
Category I:    Civil Works, 100% of total expenditures with the
exception of unskilled labor required for pastoral
well construction: US$3.8 million;
Category II:   Vehicles and Equipment, 100% of total expenditures:
US$1.3 million;
Category III:  Input Supplies, 100% of total expenditures on incre-
mental stocks and new vaccines: US$1.3 million;
Category IV:   Credit, 100% of amounts disbursed on loans for
cattle breeding and backgrounding: US$0.45 million;
Category V:    Expatriate Staff and Consultants, 100% of total
expenditures: US$1.07 million;
Category VI:   Local staff, 65% of total expenditures on incre-
mental staff: US$1.0 million;
Category VII:  Operating Costs, 65% of total expenditures with
the exception of final distribution of drugs and
feed supplements: US$1.2 million;
Category VIII: Refunding of project preparation advance:  US$0.08
million.
An additional category would provide for an unallocated amount of US$1.8 mil-
lion. Estimated quarterly disbursements are at Annex 2, Table 3. Disbursement
requests would be fully documented; disbursement for loans, staff and operating
costs would, however, be made against certified statements of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but retained by the
Borrower and made available for inspection by IDA supervision missions and the
external auditors.



- 19 -
F. Accounts and Audit
3.17      The project management unit would set up an accounting system which
would reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained and sound practices,
a true and fair view of the total project, with the exception of credit for
cattle and sheep fattening, which would be funded through CNCA and UNCC
established channels rather than through the project account. The accounting
system would include records of cash balances, stocks held, fixed assets,
credit granted for cattle breeding and backgrounding, and the operating
costs of vehicles and equipment. OFEDES would submit certified statements of
expenditure in respect of pastoral wells constructed for the project to the
Project Manager, who would have the responsibility to check that claims were
fully in accord with the terms of the credit.
3.18      The project account would be audited annually; the auditors would
also review the proposed accounting system early in PY1. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Government that: (a) the project account would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the report of the
independent auditor would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of each project financial year; and (c) the report of the auditors would be of
such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a
statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended
purpose.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management Unit
4.01      Since the project includes, in the livestock subsector, some pio-
neering activities and some extensions to proven activities, as well as
activities in other related sectors each with their respective institutions,
Government would set up a project management unit (PMU) in the Livestock
Department of the Ministry of Rural Development. It would have three levels
of responsibility. First, it would be directly responsible for execution of
all project activities concerning the identification of pastoral units,
constitution of associations of pastoralists, site selection and operation of
pastoral centers, site selection of new wells to be constructed for and with
the participation of associations of pastoralists, and the granting and
recovery of credit for cattle backgrounding and breeding; these activities
are located primarily in the pastoral zone. Second, it would procure civil
works, equipment and supplies on behalf of the Livestock Department. For
these activities, located primarily in the cropping zone, PMU would also be
responsible for their increased utilization and effectiveness as well as for
introducing improved accounting, maintenance and stock control procedures.
Third, PMU would be responsible for the coordinated intervention of different



- 20 -
agencies in particular activities, primarily of Health and OPVN in operation
of pastoral centers and CNCA and UNCC in cattle and sheep fattening credits,
but also of OFEDES and Community Development.
4.02      The PMU, to be set up at Zinder, would consist of an Animal Husbandry
Section, a Pastoral Activities Section and a Commercial and Administrative
Section. PMU would prepare an annual work program and budget for each of the
three provinces in the project area, which would be submitted to the respec-
tive Provincial Technical Committees. The latter, chaired by the Provincial
Governors, are responsible for coordination between government departments
but they have no budgetary authority. Power of approval of PMU's annual work
program and budget would be vested in the Director of the Livestock Department
who would, after obtaining the concurrence of other participating agencies,
forward it by July 31 of each year to IDA for approval; an assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations. The Project Manager would be responsible
for introducing, by September 30, 1979, a project reporting system along lines
to be indicated by IDA and, by March 31, 1980, a project monitoring system.
Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations. A further assur-
ance was obtained whereby Government would, within six months of the closing
date, prepare a project completion report.
4.03      PMW's Animal Husbandry Section would be responsible for disseminating
information on and promoting the use of drugs and feed supplements; in partic-
ular, it would set up, monitor and revise the paraveterinary worker training
program. Though it would have no direct responsibility for vaccination
campaigns, it would contribute to their increased effectiveness by ensuring
that all equipment was in good working order, for which it would have budgetary
authority, and by seeking out means of better communication between Livestock
Department staff and pastoralists. For all associations of pastoralists it
would be responsible for designing, monitoring and revising the content of
range management advice. In the cropping zone, it would be specifically
responsible for improving the quality of advice given to cattle fatteners in
Maradi Province and for initiating credit and providing sound advice to sheep
fatteners.
4.04      PMU's Pastoral Activities Section would be responsible for identify-
ing pastoral units, for which a consultant agrostologist would be engaged for
three man-months per year in PY1 through PY4. It would subsequently be res-
ponsible, through local Livestock Department staff whose experience would have
to be complemented by short training courses, for promoting the concept of and
arranging official recognition for associations of pastoralists. It would
then be responsible for selection of sites for pastoral centers, although it
would be free to make the case that any particular pastoral center should
precede formal constitution of associations of pastoralists; such cases would
be subject to IDA approval and an assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. It would also be responsible, among duly-constituted associa-
tions of pastoralists, for site selection of new wells and for deciding in
which associations the new credit schemes would be launched. It would be
responsible for the granting and recovery of credit for breeding and back-
grounding, and for training staff and pastoralists in the filing of credit
applications, constituting the collective guarantees, and monitoring the care



- 21 -
and use of animals acquired on credit. Loan applications would be approved
by the Chief of the Pastoral Activities Section, the credit officer and the
respective provincial Livestock Department head. In collaboration with
existing Livestock Department staff, particularly those stationed at markets,
the credit officer would locate appropriate animals, inform successful loan
applicants, help them conclude purchases and, when necessary, organize trans-
port of animals.
4.05      PMU's Commercial and Administrative Section would be responsible for
all project accounting, budgeting and cash-flow projections; it would process
tender documents and other procurement papers, for which it would liaise with
Government's Rural Engineering Department, follow-up auditors' recommendations
and assist in setting up accounting procedures for the new credit schemes.
It would be responsible for implementation of sound internal and management
controls particularly with regard to stocks and receipts, and operating costs
of vehicles and equipment. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
Rural Engineering Department would provide all necessary support services for
defining specifications and carrying out site surveys.
4.06      PMU's internal organization, its relationship to the existing
Livestock Department structure, and to other departments and agencies, are
illustrated at Chart No. 19077. Responsibilities and qualifications of key
personnel are detailed at Annex 1. Appointment of the Project Manager and
of the Chiefs of the Pastoral Activities and Commercial and Administrative
Sections would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
B. Staffing
4.07      Since PMU would not be directly responsible for most of the animal
health and productivity activities, its staffing needs are modest; nor do
project activities require large numbers of incremental staff in the Livestock
Department since there is already some under utilization of qualified staff.
Incremental staffing needs are shown in Table 4.1. The Project Manager and
the Chief of the Animal Husbandry Section would both be Nigerien livestock
specialists. Two positions in PMU would be filled through international
recruitment in which APMU could assist, namely the Chiefs of the Pastoral
Activities Section and the Commercial and Administrative Section. Consultants
would be recruited for (a) undertaking the large-scale smallstock vaccine
tests (three man-months, para. 3.04), (b) identification of pastoral units
(12 man-months, para. 4.04), (c) for training methods (six man-months, para.
4.08), (d) monitoring of animal health and productivity activities (10 man-
months, para. 4.11), and (e) preparation of a follow-up project (18 man-months,
para. 3.10). The project would provide, in sum, for eight man-years of tech-
nical assistance at a unit cost of US$80,000, based on recent APMU experience,
and 49 man-months of consultant services at a unit all-inclusive cost of
US$8,900, of which US$6,500 for salary, US$1,500 for living expenses, and
US$900 for travel. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the quali-
fications and experience and terns of reference of the Project Manager, the
three Section Chiefs and the Credit Officer (Annex 1) and all consultants
would be acceptable to IDA; and that the terns and conditions of employment of
internationally-recruited staff and all consultants would be acceptable to IDA.



- 22 -                                                 Table 4.1
PROJECT STAFFING
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3          Year 4         Year 5
LIvestock Department Grades
Veterinarians 1/
Project Manager                                      1            1             1               1             1
Animal Husbandry Section Chief                       1            1             1               1             1
tncrementto be recr-ited                            2             -             -               -             -
Livestock AssistanLts z/  aj
Pastoral Centers                                     1            2             3               5             5
New Veterinary Posts                                 3            7            il              il            il
Drug and Feed Promotion                              3            3             3               3             3
Fattening Supervisor                                1             1             1              1              1
Increment to be recruited                           8             5             5              T              _
Livestock Agents 4/
Pastoral Canters                                    1             2             3              5              5
Fattening                                           2             4             4              4              4
Increment to be recruited                           T             3                            2              _
Expatriates
Pastoral Activities Section Chief 5/                    1            1             1               1
Commercial and Administrative
Section Chief 6/                                    1             1             1
Increment to be recruited                           2            -                                           (2)
Others 7/
Credit Officer                                         -             1             1               1             1
First Aid Center Chief                                  1            2             3               5             5
Accountant                                              1            1             1               1             I
Vehicle Manager                                         1            1             1               1             i
Food Supply CQordinator                                -             1             1               1             1
Bookkeepers                                            2             2             2               2             2
Draughtaman                                            1             1             1              1              1
Interviewers                                           2             2             2              2              2
Secretaries                                            5             5             5              5              5
Storekeepers                                           1             2             3              5              5
Drivers                                               18            19            19              19            19
Clerks
Increment to be recruited                             37             5             2                 
Total Staff                                              52           65            73              81            79
Increment to be recruited                             52            13             8              8             (2)
Z, Veterinary doctors or equivalent, trained abroad; present nationwide complement: 15; annual increment: 2 per year.
2/ There are two intermediate levels between Veterinarians and Livestock Assistants, namely (a) Technical Officers
(sraduates of a three-year program at the University of Niamey of whom the present nationwide complement is four
and the annual increment tua per year), and (b) Technical Agents who are promoted from among Livestock Assistants
and of whom the present nationwide complement is eight. Since no such staff are expected to be available to the
project, middle-level staff have been assessed as if all would be Livestock Assistants.
3/ Three-year studies at the Livestock Assistants and Agents School at Niamey; present nationwide complement 170;
annual increment: 16 per year.
4/ Two-year studies at the above school; present nationwide complement: 196; annual increment:19 per year.
5/ Sociologist.
6/  Accountant.
7/  Some of whom may be recruited from Livestock Department Grades.



- 23 -
C. Training
4.08      The project includes three innovative activities in which livestock
producers and Livestock Department field staff would need formal training. A
consultant in training methods would be engaged for three months in each of
the PY1 and PY2 in order to define training methods and review their effec-
tiveness with PMU. First, paraveterinary workers would be trained and staff
would have to be taught how to train them. The Chief of the Animal Husbandry
Section would undertake such staff training, through short courses in each of
the provincial capitals, to be given in PY1 and PY2. Participating staff,
about 10 per course, would be selected by their respective Provincial Live-
stock Officers. Course content would draw on the results of the initial
ethnoveterinary inventory (para. 3.03), on the Section Chief's own experience
in giving the first few courses for paraveterinary workers himself, on his
inspection of such courses given by staff, and on his monitoring of the
effectiveness of trainees. Trainee paraveterinary workers would be selected
by District Livestock Officers and, for the pastoral zone, by the Chief of the
Pastoral Activities Section; trainees need not be members of associations of
pastoralists but the latter would be given priority in selection for training.
One course per year, with about 5 participants, would be given for the duration
of the project in each of the six district capitals that are in or close to
the pastoral zone: Nguigmi, Diffa, Maine-Soroa, Goure, Tanout and Dakoro.
One course with about 10 participants would be given in each of the first two
years of operation of each pastoral center. Course leaders would decide which
of the participants merited receiving a medical kit and would be empowered to
distribute such kits.
4.09      The second innovation concerns the identification of pastoral units
and the constitution and role of associations of pastoralists. Training in
each of these activities would be undertaken by the Chief of the Pastoral
Activities Section. Short courses for staff, each with about 10 participants,
would be given at Zinder, the first course early in PY1, with subsequent
courses held once per year in May, which is otherwise a slack month. Par-
ticipating staff would be selected by their respective Provincial Livestock
Officers. For pastoralists, such training would be given in one-week courses
to be held towards the end of each dry season initially in district capitals
and subsequently in pastoral centers.  The Chief of the Pastoral Activities
Section would select participating pastoralists, initially from among tradi-
tional leaders but increasingly from among members of associations and
interested outsiders. The third innovation, the proposed breeding and back-
grounding credits, requires training for both staff and members of associa-
tions. The credit officer would undertake such training as a one-day component
of the above courses.
4.10      Other training needs relate to human health workers and range manage-
ment staff. Training of paramedical workers, undertaken by district staff of
the Ministry of Health since 1965, has been concentrated in the cropping zone.
Such training, and provision of the initial medical kit, would be provided by
the project through Ministry of Health dispensary staff to be stationed at each
pastoral center. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.



- 24 -
One course with about 10 participants would be given in each of the first two
years of operation of each pastoral center. Formally-trained range management
staff are very scarce, however, the ongoing USAID Range and Livestock Project
is providing such training through scholarshps for degree programs as well as
shorter courses.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      Each of the innovative project activities would be undertaken
on a small scale and monitoring and revision of such activities would be
a necessary, manageable function of those responsible for their execution.
Measurement of increased animal productivity would, however, require specific
monitoring work on calving, mortality and culling coefficients of herds
receiving different levels of services. Such information could be collected
by existing staff and project staff, and their task would be eased by being
able to work with associations of pastoralists and paraveterinary workers.
Consultants would be hired, for a total of 10 man-months, to design the
monitoring procedures in PY1 and to make an annual review of the results
obtained and methods adopted.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      The main output would be increased production of meat, mainly from
cattle, arising from increased birth rates, reduced death rates particularly
in young stock, and increased culling rates. The main changes in technical
coefficients are shown at Table 5.1; carcass weights are assumed to remain
unchanged except for specific fattening activities.
5.02      Outside the sphere of influence of pastoral centers, incremental
production in the project area but particularly in the pastoral zone would
reflect both accelerated herd growth and increased herd productivity. The
scope for increased herd numbers would be limited by available feed resources
and this constraint would begin to operate by about PYIO with the project but
not until about PY15 without the project. About 20% of incremental production
in PY10 would be due to incremental animals, or the project's impact on the
pace of herd growth. By PY20, however, the animal population with and without
the project, constrained by available feed resources, would be identical when
expressed in tropical animal units, but different by age and sex distribution;
incremental production in PY20 would actually be less than in PYIO, by about
15%, but it would be due exclusively to increased productivity.
5.03      Within the sphere of influence of pastoral centers, available feed
resources would be increased, both by judicious siting of new wells and by
range management practices; herd growth would not be constrained in the same
manner as in the remainder of the pastoral zone with the project. There



- 2 5 -
Table 5.1
LIVESTOCK TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Without             With Project but outside Pastoral Centers
Project    Year 1         Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
uattle
Calving rate                                      60          60            60            61             62             63
Death rates (Offtake rates)
Males    0-1 years                             35 (10)     35 (10)       34 (10)       33 (10)        32 (10)       32 (10)
1-2 years                           12 (25)      12 (25)       12 (25)      1l (25)        10 (25)        10 (25)
2-3 years                            5 (25)       5 (25)        5 (25)       5 (25)         4 (25)         4 (25)
3-4 years                            2 (25)       2 (25)        2 (25)       2 (25)         2 (25)         2 (25)
over 4 years                             2 (26)      2 (26)        2 (26)        2 (26)         2 (26)         2 (26)
Females  0-1 years                            30 (-)       30 (-)        29 (-)        28 (-)        27 (-)         26 (-)
1-2 years                           10 (-)       10 (-)       10 (-)         9 <-)          8 <-)          8 (-)
2-3 years                            5<-)         5(-)          5(-)         5<-)           4<()           4(-)
3-4 years                            2(-)         2(-)          2-)          2-)            2 (-)2() l/
over 4 years                             2 (11)      2 (11)        2 (11)        2 (11)         2 (12)         2 (13)
Sheep and Goats 2/
Birth rate                                       105         105           106           108            110           111
Death rates (Offtake rates)
Males    0-1 years                             33 (20)    32 (20)        31 (20)       29 (22)       28 (24)        28 (25)
over 1 year                              8 (50)      8 (50)        7 (50)        7 (52)         6 (53)         6 (53)
Females  0-1 years                            30 (12)      29 (12)       28 (12)      26 (13)        25 (15)        25 (16)
1-2 years                           10 (13)      10 (13)        9 (13)       9 (14)         8 (15)         8 (16)
over 2 years                             4 (17)      4 (17)        4 (17)        4 (18)         4 (20)        4 (20)
Within sphere of influence of Pastoral Centers
Cattle
Calving rate                                                  60            61            62             63            65
Death rates (Offtake rates)
Males    0-1 years                                         35 (10)       33 (10)      30 (10)        27 (10)        27 (10)
1-2 years                                        12 (25)      11 (25)        9 (25)         7 (25)        7 (25)
2-3 years                                         5 (25)       5 (25)        4 (25)         3 (25)        3 (25)
3-4 years                                         2 (25)       2 (25)        2 (25)         2 (25)        2 (25)
over 4 years                                         2 (26)        2 (26)       2 (26)         2 (26)         2 (26)
Females  0-1 years                                         30 (-)       27 (-)        24 (-)         21 (-)         21 (-)
1-2 years                                       10 (-)         9 (-)         7 (-)         5 (-)          5 (-)
2-3 years                                         5 (-)        5 (-)         4 (-)          3 (-)         3 (-)
3-4 years                                         2 (-)        2 (-)         2 (-)          2 (-)         2 (-)
over 4 years                                         2 (11)        2 (11)       2 (11)         2 (12)         2 (11)
Sheep and Goats
Birth rate                                                   105           108          110            113            117
Death rates(Offtake rates)
Males    0-1 years                                         31 (22)      28 (24)       25 (26)        23 (28)        23 (30)
over 1 year                                          8 (52)        7 (53)       5 (54)         4 (57)         4 (57)
Females  0-1 years                                         29 (13)      28 (15)       24 (17)        20 (19)       20 (21)
1-2 years                                        9 (14)        8 (15)        7 (17)        6 (19)         6 (21)
over 2 years                                         4 (18)       4 (19)        4 (21)         3 (23)        3 (24)
1/    Increases to 15% in PY1O.
2/    Separate coefficients are assessed for goats in the cropping zone, where the prolific red goat (chvre rousse)
is the predominant race; see Working Paper No. 3 in the Project File.
3f    Increases to 17% in Year 16.



- 26 -
would, moreover, be more intensive use of drugs and feed supplements than
elsewhere. In comparison to the remainder of the pastoral zone with the
project, incremental production from pastoral centers would reflect faster
herd growth, further increased herd productivity and, particularly after PY10,
a higher permissible animal population. Incremental production from pastoral
centers would build up slowly through PY10 but subsequently increase; incre-
mental production in PY20 would be four times higher than in PYIO. The
production effect of pastoral centers would indeed be long term, but it is
important to start work soon, to seize the opportunity afforded by present,
post-drought, low stocking rates to work with pastoralists to improve their
management of the rangelands.
5.04      Total and incremental output by volume and value are indicated at
Table 5.2, in which the incremental output from pastoral centers is included
in the pastoral zone. The rate of increase of output in the cropping
zone without the project is modest because there is relatively little scope
for increasing herd numbers. While this constraint equally applies to the
cropping zone with the project, in the latter case project activities would
permit favorable changes in the age and sex distribution of the herd. In both
the cropping zone and in the pastoral zone excluding the sphere of influence
of pastoral centers, the rate of growth of the value of output between PY10
and PY20 is negligible. This reflects the limit imposed by available feed
resources under systems of unimproved extensive grazing.
B. Markets and Prices
5.05      Increased output of milk, and of meat from smallstock and camels,
would be consumed mainly by the producers themselves. By contrast, most of
the increased cattle production, or about 10,000 tons of meat equivalent per
year after PYIO, would be exported, mainly on the hoof to Nigeria, where
imports are about 40,000 tons and satisfy 25% of domestic consumption. Given
such a favorable and close outlet, and Government's liberal approach to
livestock marketing, no marketing problem is foreseen. Liveweight prices in
markets in Niger are currently very high, averaging about CFAF 200 (US$0.90)
per kg. Such prices reflect the current unofficial rate of CFAF 200 per Naira
and market conditions in Kano and further south, where frozen meat imports
have reached 10,000 tons per year, retailed at controlled, subsidized prices.
Until the Niara were freely convertible at its official value, and frozen meat
imports were increased several-fold, which would require an adequately-equipped
distribution system, and consumer preference for fresh meat declined, live-
weight prices in Niger would not fall from their present, apparently high
levels because of competition from the world market. Prices may decline,
however, as drought-hit herds are reconstituted throughout the Sahel and West
African beef production may increase more rapidly than regional fresh meat
demand. By contrast, Bank staff world price forecasts for beef through 1985
are for a real increase of 31% over 1978 levels. To take account of the
possible decline in West African beef prices, whereby they may be once again



- 27 -                                                  Table 5.2
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Pastoral Zone                       Cropptng Zone                           Total
Value of Output                         (CFAF         (US$                 (CFAF          (US$                 (CFAF          (US$
bill.)       mill.)               bill.)        mill.)                bill.)        mill.)
py 0                                      7.4          34                   17.8           81                   25.2          115
PY 10:  without project                   8.8          40                   19.7           90                   28.5          130
with project  1/                10.3 2/       47                    21.3          97                   31.6           144
increment                        1.5 2/         7                    1.6           7                    3.1            14
PY 20:  without project                   9.5          43                   20.8           95                   30.3          138
with project  1/                11.0 3/       50                    21.9         100                   32.9           150
increment                        1.5 3/        7                    1.1            5                    2.6            12
Volume of Meat                           ---------------------------------('000 tons)--------------------------------
py 0                                            13.4                               29.6                                 43.0
PY 10:  without project                         15.9                               33.6                                 49.5
with project  4/                        19.5                              37.3                                 56.8
increment                                3.6                               3.7                                  7.3
PY 20:  without project                         17.2                               36.0                                53.2
with project  4/                        21.0                              38.8                                 59.8
increment                                3.8                               2.8                                  6.6
Volume of Milk
Py O                                            74.5                              190.6                               265.1
PY 10:  without project                         86.9                              203.9                               290.8
with project                            90.6                             207.4                                298.0
increment                               3.7                                3.5                                  7.2
PY 20:  without project                         92.7                              208.2                               300.9
with project                           94.4                              210.1                                304.5
increment                               1.7                                1.9                                  3.6
Numbers of Animals                        --------------------------------('000 TAU) 5/ ------------------------------
py O                                            742                            1,333                                 2,075
PY 10:  without project                         848                            1,485                                 2,333
with project                           896 6/                          1,503                                2,399
increment                               48 6/                             18                                    66
PY 20:  without project                         899                            1,537                                 2,436
with project                           932 7/                          1,537                                2,469
increment                               33 7/                            -                                      33
Total Herd Value                        (CFAF         (US$                 (CFAF         (US$                  (CFAF         (US$
bill.)        Mill.)               bill.)         mill.)               bill.)        mill.)
PY 0                                    28.8          131                   47.3           215                 76.1            346
PY 20:  without project                 35.9          163                   56.7           258                 92.6           421
with project                    37.0 8/      168                   56.7           258                  93.7           426
increment                       1.1 8/         5                    -              -                    1.1             5
1/  Excluding value of putput from credit schemes: CFAF 117 million/year.
2/  Includes CFAF 0.1 hillion as incremental production from pastoral centers.
3/  Includes CFAF 0.4 billion as incremental production from pastoral eenters.
4/  Excluding meat production from credit schemes: 250 tons/year at full production beginning PY 7.
5/  Tropical animal units; 1 head of cattle: 0.8 TAU; 1 sheep or goat: 0.16 TAU; 1 camel: 1.0 TAU.
6/  Includes 14,000 TAU as incremental animal population in pastoral centers.
7/ Includes 30,000 TAU as incremental animal population in pastoral centers.
8/ Includes CFAF 1.3 billion as incremental herd value in pastoral centers.



- 28 -
lower than world prices as was the case up to the drought, it is assumed for
purposes of economic valuation of project output that real border prices
ex-Niger will remain constant at an average of CFAF 200 (US$0.90) per kg.
C. Producer Incomes
5.06      Incomes from livestock in 1979 constant prices accruing to average
herd-owning families (para. 1.07) in the pastoral zone would increase, without
the project, from CFAF 240,000 (US$1,090) in PYO to CFAF 295,000 (US$1,340) in
PY10, or 2.1% per year. Incomes with the project would differ between those
who are beneficiaries of pastoral centers, whose net income in PY10 would be
CFAF 350,000 (US$1,590), and those who are not, whose net income in PYIO would
be CFAF 335,000 (US$1,520). The initial cash flow of the 1,000 beneficiary
families of a pastoral center is shown at Annex 2, Table 4. The aggregate net
cash flow line gives only a broad indication of any individual family's cash
flow since it does not reflect the heterogeneity of herd composition. Those
who own more smallstock would have a more favorable cash flow than those who
own more cattle. More important, it is assumed that not all animals would
receive improved inputs and the cash inflow is derived from technical coeffi-
cients that reflect average input use. Those pastoralists who make higher-
than-average use of inputs would have accordingly higher outflows and inflows,
though their initial net cash flows could be less favorable than the aver-
age. Average outflows start, however, at only 2% of average without project
income, and subsequently increase to about 5%; no significant cash flow
problems are anticipated. Between PY10 and PY20 the difference in income
between beneficiaries of pastoral centers, and others, would increase as the
latter are increasingly constrained by available feed resources. For the
former, net income in PY20 would be CFAF 415,000 (US$1,890) and for the
latter, CFAF 350,000 (US$1,590); income without the project in PY20 would be
CFAF 320,000 (US$1,450). These differences in income between the with and
without project situations are not large but they are judged sufficient to
ensure pastoralists' participation in the project, especially in pastoral
centers at which human health services and food stocks would also be provided.
5.07      Average incomes from livestock accruing to herd-owners in the crop-
ping zone would increase, without the project, from CFAF 89,000 (US$400) in
PYO to CFAF 99,000 (US$450) in PY10, or 1.1% per year. Income with the project
would increase to CFAF 107,000 (US$490) in PYIO. In PY20, with project income
would be CFAF 110,000 (US$500) in comparison to CFAF 104,000 (US$470) without
the project.  These small income increases reflect the limited scope for
further extensive livestock production in the cropping zone where income from
livestock, though significant, is secondary to income from cropping. There
is, moreover, probably greater dispersion about the average in the cropping
zone than in the pastoral zone, reflecting greater diversity of herd size
and composition, and the varying extent to which owners confer management of
cattle, and thereby the milk income, to pastoralists; such arrangements would
in turn reduce livestock income disparities in the pastoral zone.



- 29 -
Loan Recipients' Incomes
5.08      Recipients of breeding loans would be among the most destitute
of the people of the pastoral zone but, five years or more after the great
drought, would not be entirely without income and even animals, particularly
smallstock. The cash flow generated from five cows is, however, so slow that
10 immature males would also be provided in order to generate cash quickly and
to permit reimbursement of the principal over six years. The cash flow per
100 loans is shown in Annex 2, Table 5; in constant prices net cash income
would only be about CFAF 50,000 (US$230) per loan recipient in year 8, although
the capital value of the herd would have doubled to CFAF 600,000 (US$2,730)
and milk would provide an additional non-cash income of CFAF 35,000 (US$160).
5.09      Backgrounding and fattening loan recipients' returns are shown
at Annex 2, Table 6. Recipients of backgrounding loans would put up about
CFAF 7,900 (US$36) per immature male and receive CFAF 14,700 (US$67) after 18
months, for an annual return on their outlay of 49%. Loans would be given for
any number of animals up to a maximum of 10 per recipient. Recipients of
cattle fattening loans would receive a loan of 100% of the purchase price but
would have to put up about CFAF 11,700 (US$53) per animal for inputs; they would
receive CFAF 20,500 (US$93) after six months for a return of 75%. Loans would
be given for a maximum of two animals per recipient but, in view of the avail-
ability of farm by-products, in most cases for only one animal. Recipients of
sheep fattening loans would also receive a loan for 100% of the purchase price
and, for four animals, would have to put up CFAF 13,000 (US$59) for inputs.
They would receive CFAF 20,600 (US$94) after 12 months for an annual return of
58%. Such loans would be given for any number of sheep up to a maximum of 10
per recipient.
D. Financial Implications for Government
5.10      Whereas beneficiaries' contribution to recurrent costs after the
project's development period would amount to CFAF 300 million (US$1.4 mil-
lion) per year, Government's contribution would be about CFAF 180 million
(US$820,000) per year in PY5 prices (Annex 2, Table 7); this would finance
mainly maintenance of civil works especially wells, vehicle operating costs
and staff. Additional revenue accruing to Government from the project has
been estimated on the suppositions that existing taxes and fees would remain
unchanged in real terms and that existing effective yield factors would also
remain unchanged. Government would thereby obtain about CFAF 25 million
(US$110,000) per year from increased proceeds from export taxes and from
licenses, fees and export permits. Further additional revenue would arise
from indirect taxes on increased consumption in the modern sector by project
beneficiaries, but this cannot be satisfactorily estimated and has been
ignored. Government would therefore incur a net deficit from project-induced
expenditures and revenues of about CFAF 155 million (US$710,000) per year in
PY5 prices, or about CFAF 110 million (US$500,000) in present prices. This
compares to a current deficit on livestock expenditures and revenues in the



- 30 -
project area of about CFAF 30 million (US$140,000) per year. Government's
deficit would therefore increase nearly three times in present prices after
the project's development period. Government is not, however, disposed
to introduce vaccination or other charges that could readily wipe out the
aggregate annual deficit because (a) although the project generates high
aggregate net incremental income, of about CFAF 3 billion (US$13.6 million)
per year by PYIO, incremental income per beneficiary family is not great
(para. 5.06 and 5.07) and beneficiaries will remain poor and (b) Government
has adopted a policy of transferring part of its substantial revenues from
uranium mining to the rural sector.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01      All herd-owners in the project area, or over 200,000 families,
would benefit from improved animal health services.  About half those families
would benefit from improved animal productivity services, mainly more readily
accessible drugs and feed supplements. Beneficiaries of specific project
activities, with more substantial benefits per recipient, would include 5,000
families in pastoral centers, 7,500 cattle fatteners per year and 8,000 sheep
fatteners per year, mostly women. While the project's incremental output
arises mainly from improved animal health and productivity, the successful
introduction of associations of pastoralists and pastoral centers would be
a significant innovation. The effective collaboration of pastoralists and
technicians in resource management would have major ecological benefits which,
though long term, would also constitute an economically acceptable enterprise
(para. 6.02). The Livestock Department staff's field of competence would be
broadened, both through on-the-job experience and formal training, from pro-
vision of animal health services to provision of animal and pastoral produc-
tivity services. At project completion, the Department would be equipped to
provide such services on a larger scale than envisaged under the proposed
project.
B. Economic Analysis
6.02      The following major assumptions have been used:  (a) project life:
20 years; (b) standard conversion factor to express local costs in border
prices: 0.86; (c) Project Management Unit costs allocated between the pastoral
zone (19%), pastoral centers (44%) and cropping zone (37%) by their estimated
share of the Unit's activities, excluding 18 man-months of consultant services
for studies for follow-up project preparation; (d) phasing-out of the Unit's
staff and associated costs at 50% PY6-10, 25% PY11-15, 10% PY16-20, and at
similar rates for other staff; (e) incremental output from herd models valued



- 31 -
as at para. 5.05 but not increased to take account of export taxes since the
latter are negligible; (f) no residual value attributed to remaining capital
items at end PY20 but incremental herd value included. For pastoral centers,
whose locations are to be determined, two without project situations have been
examined, namely including or excluding project activities to be undertaken in
the pastoral zone. The actual situation would likely fall between these two
cases. Based on these assumptions, economic costs and benefits are detailed
in Working Paper No. 6, summarized in Table 6.1, and economic rates of return
are as follows: pastoral zone (11% of project costs): over 100%; pastoral
centers (31% of project costs): 8% or 15% depending on the without project
situation; cropping zone (42% of project costs): 100%; and cattle and sheep
fattening (10% of project costs): 17%. The overall rate of return for these
components covering 94% of project costs would be 82%.
6.03      The high rates of return to the pastoral zone and cropping zone
components arise from the substantial and rapid benefits from animal health
and productivity measures whereby net benefits would be positive in all but
the first two years. In addition, most of the work would be undertaken by
existing Livestock Department staff and the initial herd value, too, would be
a sunk cost. If the value of total herd output net of purchased inputs is
expressed as an annual return on the capital value of the herd, this return
would increase by only two percentage points, from 33% before the project to
35% in PY20. The return on the inputs required to promote this change is,
however, very high. By contrast, the far lower but still acceptable rates
of return to pastoral centers arise from slow growth in incremental benefits,
especially through PYIO; such slow growth also renders the return to pastoral
centers insensitive to changes in costs and benefits (Table 6.1).
Risks
6.04      The three main risks are of poor management, particularly in respect
of the promotion and marketing of drugs and feed supplements, of problems
arising from the separation of animal ownership and herd management, and of
the possible ineffectiveness of associations of pastoralists and pastoral
centers. Drug and feed supplement marketing requires a sympathetic under-
standing of pastoralists' conceptions of animal health, diseases and cures, a
willingness to make frequent visits in harsh conditions to pastoralists, and
an ability to organize timely supplies and good storage of products. Govern-
ment and Livestock Department staff are, however, keen to accept the challenge
of their increased responsibilities under the project. Moreover, the Project
Management Unit's animal husbandry section would be headed by an experienced
senior livestock officer, the Unit's commercial and administrative section
would handle all procurement, and the project includes technical support ser-
vices by consultants to help design and monitor animal productivity measures.
The second risk is that pastoralists managing animals which they do not own
would be insufficiently concerned with improving animal productivity. This
risk applies, potentially, to all cattle in the cropping zone or 62% of all
cattle, or 34% of all livestock, in the project area. Since, however, owners
necessarily select managers in whom they have confidence, probably based on



Table 6.1   E05NONIC COSTS AND1 BENEFITS
Vent 1       Yest 2        Vent 3        Vent 4         TestS        Venta 10      Y-an  15      Ysar 19        Tsert 20  j/ EU
pastoral Zone
nr,etlCents  Pi                           70.5          65.1          123.9         103.3          78.6           76.3          71.4          68.6          68.4
Benefts with the proje.t                     7.528.9       7.773.3        8.394.9       8,929.2        9,225.6      10,374.4      10,639.3       10. 72P. 4    17,534.3
nenafitn cithout projoot                      7.519.9       7,724.5        7,936.4       8,391.5       8,429.0        8,948.6       9,393.7        9,588.7      16,773.5
lcontlBenefits                              9.0          48.8         458.5          537,4         796.6       1,425.6       1, 29. 8       1,133.7         760.8
Net Benefits                                     (61.5)        (16.3>        334.6         434.1          718.0       1,349.5       1,174.2        1,065.1         692.4     7100
Pastoral Centers
mnrreoeotal Conta  2/                            164.1         152.1         l8.3         269.6           94.6         113.1          98.2          85.3           84.8
B e.efits wtth the prnject                       258.3         535.1         846.3       1,493.7        1,553.8       1,797.5       2,052.5       2,144.1       4,604.5
Be-fita vith.ut prejeet: A I/                    249.8         516.1         836.8       1,484.2        1,534.0       1,726.-4      1,769..5       1,782.5      2,879.7
Isrnne   .esefit.                           8.5          19.0            9.1           9.5          19.8          77.1        23083.0         361.A       1,724.8
Net Benefits                                    (155;6)       (133.1>        (148.8)       (260.1)        (74.8)        (42.0)        184.8          276.3       1,640.0         8
Pastoral Zone nd Centers
Net Benefits                                    (217.1)       (149.4)        185.8         174.0          643.2       1,307.5         989.4         788.8       2,332.4         7t
Cronoino Zone
ncentlCentsa                              167.3         372.8         171.9          157.7         151.9         148.0         128.6          118.0         117.5
B.enfits  .ith the project                    17.899.2      18,477.8      18,794.2      19.471.7      20,109.5       21,377.4      21.837.3      21.963.4       31,411,9
Benefito  .ithout projeot                    17,894.2       18,272.4      18,51s.5      18,716,9      18,933.2       19,766.6      20,492.6      20,694.2      30,124.0
1--nce - eotl Benefits                             5.0         205.4         278.7         754.8        1,176.3      1,C1o.8        1,344.7       1,269.2         ee 
Net Benefits                                    (162.3)       (167.4)        106.8         597.1        1,024.4       1,462.8       1,216.1        1,151.2       1,3,)         100
Animal Fettenino
1ncremente1 Conte                                 36.6          86.3         153.5         220.8         289.5          a84.8         283.2         281.6          281.6
loor,aenal Be.efit.                              -            .36.6          95.7         177.5          259.3         341.1         341.1         341.1          341.1
Net Senefltn                                     (36.6)        (49.7)        (57.8)         (43.3)        (30.2)         S.3          57.9          59.5           59.5        17
Total 4'
incre,nntai Contn                                438.5         676.3         6o7.6         751.4         614.6          622.2         581.4         553.5         552.3
Inorenental Benefltn                              28.5         309.8         842.4       1,47(9.2      2,212.0       3,448.8        3,214.4       3.105.6        (659.8)
Net Benefits                                    (416.0)       (366.5)        234.8         727.8        1,637.4       2,826.6       2,633.0       2,552.1      (1,212.1)        8o
Note: pastoral Centero: B 5/
Net Besefta                                    (155.3)       (139.1)       (140.8)        (269.6)        (68.3)        105.4         325.3         442.5       1,755.8         15
Net Benefit Stresam  frtes aboya                     Inoreesetl-Benefits Lcnoe.d 1 Teac
U      -10%    B -20%      C +10~%                Bn        B-10        B -20%      C +10%
Pantore1 Zone                                       5100      ,7100        7100        ,l00               7100          98.9        91.7        98.9
Peetoro  Cntra  A                                      7.8        6.5         5.1         6.7                 7.0        5.9         4.6         6.0
Cropplsg Zone                                         99.8       90.5        81.1        91.4                63.1      58.5        53.7         29.0
Aoi,nl Fatteing    /                                 16.7       14.7        112.4~      16.6                 -            
Total                                                 81.6       75?.0       64.2        73.8               51.V        47.0       42.3        47.5
Note: Pastoral Centers: B                             14.5       12.9        11.2        13.1                12.7       11.4        9M          11.1
i..Incldes incresental bard value, uliehicie negative ie the pastoral zeem (herd amasbre stilar bat agea nd nez conponitien different), positive ie pantoral centera
and  5*80    ie ties orpplg nons.
1-1odtig chars of Project NeagsosB nt Unit Cents allocaerd (par lforkiog Ppepr No. 6) as foll-een  pantoral wome 19%; pastoral cenrera 44%; croppieg zoee  37%;
ellocatien pertaino te all ProJeet NanagSent Ueit  neosn  -ept 27 eaesethe  et consultant services for studies.
31 Cna'.e;A pastoral ceoints trested as iacreasental te broad pastoral nons proejat antivities, i.n. pectoral cantater sthlout projeot ideetical te pastoral
sons sth th. project, pro-ratd by respactive essbets of tropical aniai uite..
Re Bprenents 94% of total projecr courts pastoral sema 11%; paetoral seniors 31%;, creppimg cene, 42%; anisai fatranieg 10%; receainimg coetst amn for breedtng lans
(3%), connulrant serices for stedian (2%) and baciegro.edieg bans ( 1%).
5JCasa B: pastoral canters trented ns iscrescantal te the paeteral cons ewtthour les projeot, 1.s. pastoral centear sitsd in melativaly muts locations hlers,tahie
pesjaor' -broad astivitise le ries pastoral sens iesperativs.
sensitivity cemductsd on cents and benefitn terbr than ries initial cent of aminci te ha fsttensd;, lagging of incre.,ental b.emaite by onesypsar Cet applicable.



- 33 -
kin and other ties, the risk is considered acceptable. Moreover, as noted at
para. 1.05, there has been no discernible decline in demand for animal health
services in the last few years even though the separation of ownership and
management increased as a consequence of the drought. The third risk, that
associations of pastoralists and effective collaboration between pastoralists
and technicians would be slow to develop, is significant but pertains to the
innovative part of the project rather than the whole. To reduce this risk, a
pastoral unit identification test was undertaken in part of the project area
in August-September 1978. Headed by a sociologist, the team identified seven
pastoral units and concluded that associations of pastoralists could indeed be
constituted and operational. In addition, the chief of the Project Management
Unit's pastoral activities section, a sociologist familiar with the project
area, has already been identified. Above all, senior Livestock Department
staff, aware of the danger of a top-down approach to animal and pastoral
productivity, are keen to begin to work with pastoralists rather than simply
with their animals.
6.05      Sensitivity tests have been used to evaluate the potential impact
of these and other risks. Rates of return to the pastoral zone and cropping
zone components are sensitive to an overall delay of one year in their bene-
fits but remain high; the return in the cropping zone would fall from 100% to
63%. By contrast, the rate of return to pastoral centers with a one-year
delay in project benefits would only fall from 7.8% to 7.0%. These tests
indicate that the project could withstand the possible risks yet still be
economically viable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(i)  Government would make explicit budgetary provision for
purchases of vaccines against contagious cattle diseases
throughout the project area for the duration of the
project (para. 3.04);
(ii)  large-scale tests of a combined vaccine against small-
stock plague and para-influenza would be subject to
IDA approval (para. 3.04);
(iii)  drugs as listed at para. 3.03 and feed supplements
would be sold, throughout the project area for the
duration of the project, at prices sufficient to cover
costs of purchase, delivery and final distribution,
and proceeds from such sales would be put into a
revolving fund (para. 3.04);



- 34 -
(iv)  the legal instruments required to provide for official
recognition of associations of pastoralists would be
issued by December 31, 1979, that they would include
allocation of exclusive watering rights to each associa-
tion in its area, that they would also include a model
charter for an association of pastoralists, and that the
charter would be subject to consultation with IDA (para.
3.05);
(v) the final design and site selection of each pastoral center
would be subject to IDA approval (para. 3.05);
(vi)  proceeds from sales of human health supplies and food stocks
would be used to set up revolving funds for further acquisi-
tion of such supplies and stocks (para. 3.06);
(vii)  the project would provide new pastoral wells only where
an association of pastoralists had been constituted in
an identified pastoral unit with sufficient grazing
resources, and that association had undertaken to provide
all unskilled labor, in kind or in cash, required for
well-digging (para. 3.06);
(viii)  all credit policies and procedures would be as specified
at para. 3.07;
(ix)  final designs for the two main markets, at Zinder and
Maradi, would be subject to IDA approval (para. 3.08);
(x) recipients of loans for cattle and sheep fattening would
be charged interest for the exact period for which the
loan was outstanding (para. 3.09);
(xi)  Government would replenish the project account quarterly
on the basis of cash forecasts made by the project manage-
ment unit (para. 3.14);
(xii)  the contract to be negotiated with OFEDES for pastoral well
construction would be satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.15);
(xiii)  the project account would be audited and reports submitted
to IDA as detailed in para. 3.18;
(xiv)  the project's annual work program and budget would be for-
warded by the Director of the Livestock Department, by
July 31 of each year, to IDA for approval (para. 4.02);
(xv)  the project manager would introduce by September 30, 1979,
a reporting system along lines to be indicated by IDA and,
by March 31, 1980, a project monitoring system (para. 4.02);



- 35 -
(xvi)  Government would within six months of the closing date
prepare a project completion report (para. 4.02);
(xvii)  construction of any particular pastoral center prior to
formal constitution of associations of pastoralists would
be subject to IDA approval (para. 4.04);
(xviii)  the Rural Engineering Department would provide all necessary
support services to PMU for defining specifications and
carrying out site surveys (para. 4.05);
(xix)  the qualifications and experience and terms of reference of
the Project Manager, the three Section Chiefs and the Credit
Officer (Annex 1) and all consultants would be acceptable
to IDA; and the terms and conditions of employment of
internationally-recruited staff and all consultants would
be acceptable to IDA (para. 4.07);
(xx)  the Ministry of Health would station dispensary staff,
who would also undertake training of paramedical workers,
in each pastoral center (para. 4.10).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(i) Government had made an initial deposit of CFAF 150 million
(US$0.6 million) into the project account (para. 3.14);
(ii)  the Project Manager and Chiefs of the Pastoral Activities
Section and the Commercial and Administrative Section had
been appointed (para. 4.06).
7.03      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a credit on standard terms of US$12 million equivalent to
the Government of Niger.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Responsibilities and Qualifications of Key Personnel
1.   Project Manager
1.1       The project manager would be head of the Project Management Unit and
as such he would be responsible for the technical, financial and economic
success of the project. He would be specifically responsible for:
(a) preparing annual work programs and budgets;
(b) establishing a reporting system and preparing periodic and
annual progress reports;
(c) obtaining the issuance of legal instruments governing the
rights and obligations of associations of pastoralists;
(d) coordinating the participation of the Ministry of Health,
OPVN, CNCA, UNCC, OFEDES and the Community Development
Department in project activities, through his attendance
as full member of the three Provincial Technical Committees;
(e) coordinating project activities with other interventions in
the livestock sector in or of relevance to the project area;
(f) ensuring adherence to all covenants in the Credit Agreement;
(g) preparing a follow-up livestock project.
1.2       The qualifications and experience of the project manager would be:
(a) a postgraduate degree (or its equivalent), preferably in agri-
culture or veterinary science;
(b) actual experience or an indicated potential as a leader able
to coordinate the activities of a team and/or different
agencies;
(c)  field experience in working with pastoral peoples indicating
a capacity for gaining their confidence;
(d) general management skills including preferably some
familiarity with credit in the rural sector.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.   Chief of the Animal Husbandry Section
2.1       Under the direction of the project manager, he would be responsible
for:
(a) promoting increased use of drugs and feed supplements, arrang-
ing for training of paraveterinary workers to be undertaken
by Livestock Department staff, and teaching staff how to give
that training, and reviewing the effectiveness of trainees;
(b) improving the quality of advice given to cattle fatteners
and initiating the provision of credit and sound advice to
sheep fatteners;
(c) improving the effectiveness of vaccination campaigns through
provision of equipment in good working order and through
better communication between staff and livestock producers;
(d) designing, monitoring and improving the animal husbandry and
range management advice to be given to all associations of
pastoralists;
(e) improving the quality of market statistics and supervising
data-gathering for all project studies.
2.2       The qualifications and experience of the Animal Husbandry Section
Chief would be:
(a) a postgraduate degree (or its equivalent), preferably in
animal production;
(b)  field experience in working with pastoral and sedentary
peoples, preferably in the project area, indicating a
capacity for gaining their confidence;
(c)  willingness to work in the field away from project headquarters
for an average of 15 days per month;
(d) some familiarity with range management theory and practice;
(e) proven capability to guide and motivate lower-level staff.
3.   Chief of the Pastoral Activities Section
3.1       Under the direction of the project manager, he would be responsible
for:
(a) identifying pastoral units, including sites for new wells,
and engaging consultants to assist him in that task;



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(b) constituting associations of pastoralists and training Live-
stock Department staff in that task;
(c) selecting sites for pastoral centers and supervising the
operation of such centers;
(d) undertaking an ethnoveterinary inventory and preparing a
manual for use in training paraveterinary workers;
(e)  supervising the setting up and operation of credit schemes
for breeding and backgrounding.
3.2       The qualifications and experience of the Pastoral Activities Section
Chief would be:
(a) an appropriate university degree;
(b)  field experience in working with pastoral peoples, prefer-
ably in the project area, indicating a capacity for gaining
their confidence;
(c)  willingness to work in the field away from project headquarters
for an average of 15 days per month;
(d) a good knowledge of French and at least one local language.
4.   Credit Officer
4.1       Under the direction of the Chief of the Pastoral Activities Section,
he would be responsible for:
(a) explaining to associations of pastoralists the two new forms
of credit and the guarantees to be put up;
(b) designing credit processing forms, the accounting system and
repayment mechanisms;
(c) preparing illustrative budgets for potential loan recipients;
(d) supervising the acquisition and marking of animals acquired
on credit;
(e)  setting up and servicing, as secretary and full member, each
provincial loan approval committee.
4.2       The qualifications and experience of the credit officer would be:
(a) actual experience or an indicated potential as an innovator;



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(b)  field experience in working with pastoral people, preferably
in the project area, indicating a capacity for gaining their
confidence;
(c)  willingness to work in the field away from project headquarters
for an average of 15 days per month;
(d) actual experience in operating a credit scheme in the rural
sector.
5.   Chief of the Commercial and Administrative Section
5.1       Under the direction of the project manager, he would be responsible
for:
(a) setting up detailed accounts and a consolidated project account
and control of bookkeeping;
(b)  preparing detailed annual budgets and quarterly cash flow
projections;
(c) designing and implementing sound internal and management
controls particularly with regard to equipment maintenance,
stocks and receipts, and vehicle operating costs;
(d) processing of tender documents and other procurement papers;
(e) preparing applications for withdrawal from the IDA credit
account;
(f) assisting the credit officer in setting up accounting pro-
cedures for the new forms of credit;
(g) follow-up of auditors' recommendations.
5.2       The qualifications and experience of the Commercial and Administra-
tive Section Chief would be:
(a) a university degree (or its equivalent) or membership in a
recognized professional body evidencing formal knowledge
of modern accounting theory and practice in accordance
with generally accepted international standards;
(b)  five years professional experience, preferably in a country
using the OCAM or French accounting plans and some of which
in a commercial enterprise;
(c) actual experience with procurement, preferably with civil
works as well as supplies;
(d) a good knowledge of French.



-40-                                     ANNEX 2
Table 1
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Costs by tear
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total           Total        Foreign Exchange
------- (CFAF '000, May 1979 prices) --------- ----         (US$'000)             (%)
Pastoral Zone 1/
Civil Works                     28,080   11,189   41,969   21,600         -      102,838         467               60
Vehicles and Equipment              214      171   13,544        652       652    15,233          69               90
Input Supplies                  14,212    9,673   12,563   13,539   19,522    69,509             316               75
Staff                             -         -        4,275    4,275    4,275    12,825            58                0
Operating Costs                     770      770    1,090    1,090    1,090         4,810         22               65
Subtotal                        43,276   21,803   73,441   41,156   25,539   205,215             932               64
Pastoral Centers 2/
Civil Works                     58,720   58,720   58,720  117,439         -      293,599      1,336                60
Vehicles and Equipment          10,500   10,692   10,885   24,273    3,658    60,008             273               90
Input Supplies                  11,434   13,312   15,566   29,421    8,496    78,229             356               75
Staff                            4,848    9,696   14,544   24,240   24,240    77,568             353                0
Operating Costs                  2,662    5,418    7,773   12,910   12,822    41,585            189                65
Subtotal                        88,164   97,838  107,488  208,283   49,216   550,989           2,507               57
Credit for Breeding and
Backgrounding 3/                  -        6,805   17,212   27,273   53,765   105,055           477                 0
Cropping Zone 4/
Civil Works                     35,138  245,894   45,085        -         -      326,117      1,482                60
Vehicles and Equipment          46,843   28,530   21,690   33,459   22,469   152,991             695               90
Input Supplies                  20,824   17,985   22,298   34,337   33,760   129,204            587                75
Staff                           17,250   25,672   27,193   27,193   27,193   124,501            566                 0
Operating Costs                 34,395   35,036   35,197   35,197   35,197   175,022            795                65
Subtotal                       154,450  353,117  151,463  130,186  118,619   907,835          4,125                60
Credit for Cattle and
Sheep Fattening 3/              30,648   47,608   63,271   59,314   55,353   256,194          1,164                 
Proicet Management Unit 5/
Civil Works                     29,743      -         -         -        -        29,743        135                60
Vehicles and Equipment          36,413    8,926        160   19,227        160    64,886        295                90
Staff                           76,543   86,266   96,742   84,171   23,409   367,131          1,669                55
Dperating  Costs                37,347   38,843   33,498   28,153   28,153   165,994            756                65
Subtotal                       180,046  134,035  130,400  131,551   51,722   627,754          2,855                62
Base  Cost Estimate            496,584  661,206  543,275  597,763  354,214 2,653,042    12,060                     52
Physical Contingencies          32,150   47,376   33,187   37,037    9,232   158,982            723                62
Expected Price Increases 6/   18,326   73,340   97,582  153,479  110,851   453,578            2,062                52
Total Project Cost             547,060  781,922  674,044  788,279  474,297 3,265,602    14,845 7/                  52
1/  Working Paper 5, Table 1.
2/ Working Paper 5, Table 2.
3/ Working Paper 5, Table 4.
4/  Working Paper 5, Table 3.
5/  Working Paper 5, Table 5.
61  Civil works:  7.5% per year through end-1979, 7% thereafter; all other items:  6.5% per year through end-1979,
6% thereafter. Inflation factors are: Year 1: civil works 3.8%, all other items 3.3%; Year 2: civil works
11.1%, all other items 9.6%; Year 3: civil works 18.9%, all other items 16.1%; Year 4: civil works 27.2%, all
other items 23.1%; Year 5: civil works 36.1%, all other items 30.5%.
7/  Not rounded.  Shown in text (Table 3.2) as US$ 15 million, with Expected Price Increases increased to
US$ 2.217 million for consistency of the text table.



- 41 -
NIGER                                           ANNEX 2
Ta blie 2
LIVESTOCR PROJECT
Proj ct    pcgl Petailu
Total          Government           CNCA         Beneficiaries            IDA
A. By Activity         CFAF H   $'O0    CFAF H   $'000   CFAF M   $'000   CFAF H    'O000   CFAF M    $'O00
Pastoral Zone
Civil Works             102.8       467      -        -         -       -        2.7      12    100.1        455
Vehicles and
Equipment               15.2        69      -        -         -       -         -        -      15.2        69
Input Supplies           69.5       316      -                 -                  -       -       69.5       316
Staff                    12.8       58      4.5       20        -       -         -       -        8.3        38
Operating Costs           4.8        22     1.7        8        -       -         -        -       3.1        14
Subtotal                205.1       932     6.2       28                         2.- 2-7  12    196.2        892
Pastoral Centers
Civil Works             293.6   1,336        -        -         -                4.5      20    289.1   1,316
Vehicles and
Equipsent               60.0       273      -        -         -       _         -       -       60.0       273
Input Supplies           78.2      356       -        -        _-                         -       78.2      356
Staff                    77.6      353    Z7.2       124                          -       -       50.4      229
Operating Costs          41.6      189    13.0        59        -       -        4.4      20      24.2      110
Subtotal                551.0    2.507    40.2       183       _                 8.9     .40    501       2.84
Credit for Breeding                47         -65                                         3       1.         4
and Backgrounding       105.1      477       -        -        _        -        6.5      30      98.6      447
Cropping Zone
Civil Works             326.1   1,482        -        -         -       -         -       -      326.1   1,482
Vehicles and
Equipment              353,0      695       -        -        -        _         _       _      153.0      695
Input Supplies          129.2    -.687       -        -         -       -                 -      129.2      587
Staff                   124.5      566    43.6       198        -       -         -       -       80.9      368
Operating Costs         175.0      795    61.2       278        -            -             -     113.8      517-
_ubtotal                907    4,125   104.8         476       _        _         _       -      803.0    3,649
Credit for Cattle
and SheeP FatteninR     256.2   1,164                       5lRQ       827      74.3    337                   -
Project Management
Unit
Civil Works              29.8      135       -        -         -       _ -               -       29.8      135
Vehicles and
Equipisent              64.9      295            -        -        -        -            -       64.9      295
Staff                   367.1   1,669      39.7      181            -        -            -      327.4   1,488
Operating Costs         166.0      756     58.1      264        -       -                 -      107.9      492
Subtotal                627.8   2,855      97.8    -4*4        -        -         -              510.0   2,410
Base Cost Estimate   263        12,060   249.0   1,132    181,9        827    92.4    419   2,129.7   9,682
Physical Contin-
gencies                159.0      723    13.4        61       -        -        1.9      9      143.7     653
Expected Price
Increases              453.6   2,062      45.5      207     31.9      145     18.9      86     357.3   1,624
Total Prolect Cost   3.265.6 16Jbi.6 i  307.9   1,400 2/  31. A  a72    113.2   13
Il  Not rounded.  Financing plan in teat ahows rounded figure of US$ 15 million.
2/  Shown in text financing plan as US$ 1.514 million for consistency of text table.
B.  By Year                     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         Total
-------------------------- (CFAF'000) --------------------------
Goveroment
Base Cost Estimate              40,985        48,461        51,186        54,291         54,112        249,035
Physical Contingencies            2,626        2,789         2,689         2,660          2,642         13,406
Expected Price Increases          1,439        4,920         8,674        13,156         17,310         45,499
Total                           45_050        56,170        62,549        70,107         74,064        307,940
CNCA
Base Cost Estimate              24,988        35,373        44,465        40,504         36,544       181,874
Physical Contingencies              -            -             -             -              -              -
Expected Price Inctreases           825        3,396         7,159         9,356         11,146         31,882
Total                           25,813        38,769        51,624        49,860         47,690       213,756
Beneficiaries
Base Cost Estimiate               7,251       14,065        21,708        24,492         24,901         92,417
Physical Contingencies              303          327           362           714            177          1,883
Expected Price Increases            258        1,408         3,602         5,965          7,649         18,882
Total                             7,812       15,800        25,672        31,171         32,727       113_182
IDA
Base Cost Estisiate            423,360       563,307       425.916       478,476        238,657     2,129,716
Physical Contingencies          29,221        44,260        30,136        33,663          6,413       143,693
Expected Price Increases        15,804        63,616        78,147       125,002         74,746       357,315
Total                          462,385       671_183       534,199       637,141        319,816     2,630,724



-42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Categories and Schedule
Base Cost plus                         Rounded for
Disbursement Categories           Physical Contingencies                 Disbursement Schedule
(CFAF million)       (US$'000)                  (US$'000)
I.    Civil Works                     859               3,905                      3,800
II.   Vehicles and Equipment          293               1,332                      1,300
III.  Input Supplies                  282               1,282                      1,300
IV.   Credit                           99                 450                        450
V.    Expatriate Staff and
Consultants  1/                253                1,150                     1,150
VI.   Local Staff                     213                  968                     1,000
VII.  Operating Costs                 274               1,246                      1,200
IX.   Unallocated                    _351.              1,624                      1,800
Total                     2f6-3Q              11.959                     12.000
1/   Of which US$ 80,000 for Category VIII, Refunding of Project Preparation Advance.
IDA Fiscal Year                               Quarterly                   Cumulative
---------- (US$ million) ----------
FY 1980  lst Quarter                               0.1                        0.1
2nd Quarter                              0.1                        0.2
3rd Quarter                              0.2                        0.4
4th Quarter                              0.2                        0.6
FY 1981  lst Quarter                              0.4                         1.0
2nd Quarter                              0.4                        1.4
3rd Quarter                              0.5                        1.9
4th Quarter                              0.5                        2.4
FY 1982  Ist Quarter                               0.8                        3.2
2nd Quarter                              0.8                        4.0
3rd Quarter                              0.8                        4.8
4th Quarter                              0.8                        5.6
FY 1983  lst Quarter                               0.8                        6.4
2nd Quarter                              0.8                        7.2
3rd Quarter                              0.8                        8.0
4th Quarter                              0.8                        8.8
FY 1984  lst Quarter                               0.7                        9.5
2nd Quarter                              0.7                       10.2
3rd Quarter                              0.7                       10.9
4th Quarter                              0.6                       11.5
FY 1985  lst Quarter                              0.2                        11.7
2nd Quarter                              0.2                       11.9
3rd Quarter                              0.1                       12.0



- 43 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 4
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Pastoral Center Beneficiaries Cash Flow
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6
------------------------- (CFAF '000) --------------------------
Drugs
Drenches                208          342          538          735          740          757
Deworming               119          346          828          830          830          831
Coccidiosis              92          153          242          333          337          345
Trypanocides            231          234          238          241          245          249
External parasites       29           59           90           91           92           94
Subtotal                679        1,134        1,936        2,230        2,244        2,276
Feed
Calf supplement         651        1,300        1,951        2,600        2,600        2,600
Mineral
supplement 1/        1,236        1,824        2,412        3,648        3,648        3,648
Vitamin supplement      131          197          262          346          394          394
Subtotal              2,018        3,321        4,625        6,594        6,642        6,642
Distribution
margin        2/        135          223          328          441          444          446
Well-digging 3/         260          260          260          260          260          260
Total Cash Outflow   3,092         4,938        7,149        9,525        9,590        9,625
------------------------ (CFAF million) ------------------------
Cash Inflow 4/
With project 5/         183.6        192.0        203.4        216.9        226.5        235.2
Without project         174.6        181.8        183.9        197.0        197.1        201.3
Increment                 9.0         10.2         19.5         19.9         29.4         33.9
Less: Outflow              3.1         4.9           7.1         9.5          9.6           9.6
Net Incremental
Cash Flow 6/           5.9          5.3         12.4         10.4         19.8         24.3
1/ In part a substitute for existing (and "without project") salt purchases.
2/  5% on drugs and feed payable to paraveterinary workers, themselves beneficiaries.
3/ In kind or in cash.
4/ Assumes no milk sales but that all animal offtake is sold.
5/ Working Paper 3, Table 6A.
6/  Does not adequately capture lags between expenditures and receipts within the year.



-44 
ANNEX 2
Table 5
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Breeding Loan Recipients Cash Flow 1!
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8
----------------------------------     (CFAF   '000)    ------------------------------
Inflow
Loan Proceeds
for Breeding Cows             30,000          -           -          -           -           -           -
for Immature Males            33,660          -           -          -           -           -           -           -
Sales Proceeds
from Breeding Herd 2/             -          197        783       1,953       2,649       3,578       4,668       5,795
from Immature Males: A 3/         -      23,095      11,547      17,321      14,434      15,866          -           -
B          -           -       23,095      11,547      17,321      14,434     15,866          -
Total Inflow                    63,660      23,292      35,425     30,821      34,404      33,878      20,534       5,795
Outflow
Purchases
Cows                          30,000          -           -          -           -           -           -           _
Immature Males 4/             33,660     16,830      25,245      21,038      23,124          -           -           -
Inputs 5/                        158         269         383        537         543         544         546         548
Total Outflow                   63,818      17,099     25,628      21,575      23,667         544         546         548
Net Cash Flow
Before Repayments                 (158)      6,193      9,797       9,246      10,737      33,334      19,988       5,247
In Current Prices 6/              (167)      6,961     11,668      11,668      14,366      47,301      30,062       8,364
Repayments 7/                       -        3,183       6,366      6,366       9,549      28,647       9,549          -
After Repayments                  (167)      3,778       5,302      5,302       4,817      18,654      20,513       8,364
In Constant Prices 8/             (167)      3,010      3,431       2,880       1,188       4,687      10,439       5,247
Capital Value of Breeding
Herd 8/                         30,000                                                                             60,084
1/ Per 100 loans or 500 breeding cows and 1,000 immature males.
2/ Details at Working Paper 2, Table 4.
3/ Sales at 260 kg after 18 months on average, 5% mortality; line A: sales after 12 months; line B: sales after 24
months.
4/  Purchases at 180 kg at two years; unit cost CFAF 187 per kg and unchanged at time of sale; assumes that all immature
males sold off are replaced through year 5, i.e., 500 head in year 2, 750 in year 3, 613 in year 4 and 687 in year 5.
5/ Prorata with cattle inputs in pastoral centers: Working Paper 3, Table 6B.
6/ Inflation at 6% per year.
7/ Year 2: 5%; Years 3 and 4: 10%; Year 5: 15%; Year 6: 45%; Year 7: 15%.
8/ 1979 constant prices.



45                              ANNEX 2
Table 6
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Backgrounding and Pattening Loan Recipients Returns
Backgrounding                                    Cattle Fattening                            Sheep Fattening
Month O  Month 18                             Month 0  Month 6                            Month 0  Month 12
----(FAF/head) --                               (CFAF/head)---                           ----- (CFAF) ----
Inflow                                           Inflow                                      Inflow
Loan Proceeds 1/    26,928         -            Loan Proceeds 1/  46,750         -          Loan Proceeds 1/  22,000         -
Sale 2/                  -     46,190           Sale 2/                -     69,800         Sale                   -     45,000
Outflow                                          Outflow                                     Outflow
Purchase 3/           33,660       -            Purchase 3/         46,750       -          Purchase 3/         22,000       -
Drugs and                                       Buying expenses    1,000         -          Buying expenses    1,500         -
Supplements           1,200      -             Drugs and                                   Drugs and
Loan Repayment 4/        -     31,506            Supplements         1,100       -           Supplements           750       -
Cotton seed 4/      2,240       -           Bran 4/            10,800        -
Bran 5/             4,200       -          Loan Repayment 5/    -        24,420
Legume hay 6/        3,150       -
Loan Repayment 7/    -       49,320
Net Cash Flow           (7,932)  14,684          Net Cash Flow       (11,690)  20,480 8/   Net Cash Flow         (13,050)  20,580 6/
Net Revenue                        6,752         Net Revenue                     8,790       Net Revenue                     7,530
Return on initial                                Return on initial                           Return on initial
outlay                               85%         outlay                            75%       outlay                            58%
Annual return                         49%        Annual return                     206%      Annual return                      58%
1/  80% of purchase price.                       1/  100% of purchase price.                 1/  100% of purchase price of four
2/  260 kg, CFAF 187/kg, 5% mortality.           2/  334 kg, CFAF 209/kg (600 grams              young sheep.
3/  180 kg, CFAF 187/kg.                             per day liveweight gain over           2/  45 kg/head, CFAF 250/kg.
J   11% per year, 18 months.                         140 days).                              3/  25 kg/head, CFAF 220/kg.
3/  250 kg, CFAF 187/kg.                   4/  360 kg, CFAI 30/kg.
4/  140 kg, CFAF 16/kg.                    5/  11%, 12 months.
5/  140 kg, CFAF 30/kg.                    6/  Excluding 6% mortality risk, but
6/  210 kg, CFAF 15/kg, assuming                sickly animals are slaughtered
1.5 kg/day bought-in, remainder            prior to death and most of the
being farm by-products.                    capital is recovered.
7/ 11%, 6 months.
8/ Excluding 2% mortality risk, but
sickly animals are slaughtered
prior to death and most of the
capital is recovered.



NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Government Cash Flow 1/
Year 1    Year 2  Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9   Year 10               Year 15       Year 19      Year 20
--------------------------------------------(CFAF Million)-----------------------------------------------------------------------
A.  Inflow
IDA Disbursements B                    132      396       704        704        594        110         -          -           -            -                          -            -
Pastoraliats:
Drugs and Feed Supplements 3/         31       43        63        10        175        274        284        287        291           294          306           310          311
Pastoral Well Construction
and Maintenance  /                   2        2         2          5         -          -          -          -          -             -            -             -            -
Additional Livestock Revenues
Export Taxes  /                        1        1         2          4          5          5          5          5           5            5             4            2            2
Other Revenues 6/                     -         3         6          9         12         14         15         17          18           19            17           17           68
Total Inflow                           166      445       777        831         786       403         3O4        309        314          318           327          329          381
B.  Outflow
Project Financial Costa 7/             547      782       674        788         474
Less:  Credit Schemes                    33      61        96        110         147
Plus:  Non-incremental Drugs a
and Feed Supplements           -       43        63        lo9         175
Net project cost 8/                    514      764       641        787         502        433        466        455        490          491           426          381           379
IDA Debt Service                          1       4         9         15          19        20         20         20         20            20           45            44           44
Total Outflow                          515      768       650        802         521       453        486        475        510           511          471           425          423
C. Surplus (Deficit)
Annual                                 (349)   (323)      127         29         265        (50)      (182)      (166)      (196)         (193)        (144)         (96)          (42)
Cumulative                             (349)   (672)    (545)       (516)       (251)     (301)      (483)       (649)      (845)      (1,038)       (1,732)      (2,083)      (2,125)
1/  Current prices through Year 5 asd constant prices thereafter.  Excluding credit schemes inputs, financed separately or negligible, and revolving fund operations, food
supply activity, pastoral centers (except initial funding thereof), because they cancelled out each year.
2/  See Annex 2, Table 3.
3/  Beginning Year 6, includes full costs of ail animal health inputs.
Z/  5% contribution to both construction and maintenance costs (the latter being 3% of the former each year. beginnine sixth vpar aftsr r.-nstruction date).
5j  CFAF 2,000/cattle, 600isheep,  Overall estimated at CFAF 60/TAU.
/  Patents, export licences, butcher's income tax, etc... Conservatively estimated at .005% of additionnal offtake value (Year 1, 5, 10, 15, 20) and prorated in-between   D
Figure for Year 20 includer netting out of initial furndi,.g  f rcvolving fund operations, food supply, pastoral centers, including respective price contingencies,                     0 z
z
development period.
7/  See Annex 2, Table 1.
Y/ Year 6 and thereafter: based on economic  costs, updated to PY5 prices, excluding application of standard conversion factor and including full costs of vehicles,                           ru
cropping zone, scaled down however in line with reduced activity rate of such vehicles (Year 6-10: 50%; Year 11-15: 25%; Year 16-20: 0%).



ANNEX 3
- 47 -                              Page 1
NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
A.1  Livestock Development Project in Maradi and Zinder Provinces,
preparation report by Messrs. Levif, Tacher and Marsan, July
1977 (in French);
A.2  Livestock Development in Diffa Province, second preparation
report by senior Livestock Department staff, March 1978
(in French);
A.3 Report on the Technical Feasibility of the Pastoral Unit Concept
in Niger, study financed by PPF in August-September 1978, by
Messrs. Dulieu and Clanet (main authors), December 1978 (in
French).
B.   Working Papers
B.1 Social Analysis
B.2 Animal Health, Productivity, Credit and Marketing (in French)
B.3 Herd Models (in French)
B.4 Water Resources and Use (in French)
B.5 Project Costs
B.6 Economic Analysis






NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year             1979                        1980                        1981                        1982                         1983                        1984
ACTIV lIES                                          Project Year                                                                3 Project Yea 1   Project Year 2    ;5
Qularters   1     2      3      4      1       2      3      4             2      3      4      1      2      3       4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3       4
~~~~~~~~Rains                      Rains         'eis            -            Rains'                      Ris                          Ris
Ethonovetsttin,aey Invuentory                    Mli   'fipee    ii liimlE//                                                                 //77                                                    ,'
Drugs mal Feed Supplernent SupPly                       I // /                      ///_                        ////                         //7                         ///  I
Cool lng Equiprnent                                    / / / /                      /7       _      /            /7/7                         /7/i /7/7
Nevv Srnall stock Vaccinations                                                                                      5  I                _       7/
Identification of Pastoral Utnits                       ,         _                   //            //// |                       _     _        //                       7/7/               _/77
Constitution of Associations of Pastoralistsu             //7777                                                                              //~//~
Cotstnictioti of Stock Watering Points                  ///                         ////                         '/7/                        ////                     _    77/                         //
Construction of Pastoral Centers                         77/                        777/                         ///                         /7/_  ///
Construction of Pastoral Vetterinary Posts             /      //                                                                             /777/  7//                   /7/7                         /7/
C'edft7//                                                                            //7                        //,'/                        /7/7                         77//                          7//
Breeding                                              m/ol ,,,,                                                     7 _  ",,  _,,,
Backgrounding                                          ///                                                     //7/                                        _            / // /7///
Construction of Veterinarv Posts and Yards             . ' /__                        / / /            _///                                                                                           /7/
C or) t ruc  i  n  i a rk e s/7/7Z/1 /7//__                                                       ///l/// /7|7/                               /7/          I 1/'                        /7/,/
Cotistruction, of Markets                                77/// //77//
Construction of Abattoirs                               /7/                          //                         /77/                         /i/                          /,/ /
RoiabulllaftlOn of Slaughter Slabs                      /'/             /7/                                     // /                         /   ,/// 
Constluction of Stock Routes                             """                        """"               _  _77/                                                             "                               '
St dt f                           / / /                 _(' ~~~~~~~~7/'                   '7 _/7/ |_,//                             /7/             /7/7                 7_/7'/,
Cattre Fatsen,iUt                                                                     //                        /77/                       //,'                   _      /77                   _      /7
SIheep Fatteninls                                                                                                                   mm/
'faninijin Paraveterirury Works~7                                                  //,/                                                     ////
irdlrsBllln Associaiions of Pastoralists        , ",/s//                                                  /7                         ",/,                        //                           /71/
Staff                                                  "' _'                      1,1/_    1/,                                             /7'I                         /77                         7/,
liin i     soittu fPastoral ists                                                     7                           7','/                                                    7'
Ptaffriit 7/   -,                                                             -  _  '/_    ,'/  ~        ~/  /   /1'        |         -      7,-    7/7//                                      -    -7-'7 
Training ofi Padannedical Workerst                                                   /                           ',                          /7,                           //
Audfit                                                                                 7                                                        7/                        7/7/                        7/8
Woulid Bank -'19078



NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Dlr,r,r.f tontkck Offtcnt
| M  oinhn o Rcii rl ev bpment          f Actroitie.~                                                                                                                       EhtvofFnnc                                    intvolPnnn
P, TeCin-e ,                                                F       I                r         f                              n
Forestiv ~     ~        erriar  Inhed ionsn in;  |Llttnck  VOeleutOmnt   _           _ _-d      Pen                      AsoiaIn et                                                  uirDemn                 T     rreprm                (e        A    _  O l
L IncE~~~~~~Po tr echi Prom os.e                               et  P sortiot  e' ndV ccilt                  c rn;eni n       Patrl   CUntrA dit  *Fofte_  _up
_Rralth                        |~~~3ne frPrc0nrvea          Pasok  toiral C! or          Animl iftudrodry                 Crdi f"or   ivi       i          Cnwcand               iI                                    Adlr         |
_OPVN                                      Dl  il    toc O{i-e
_CNCAr    w
_IUNCCE_ 
_FEDES
C)thn ProvinCIal Offi.-                      _
(3Rhlnr Pr$ctsivCarn Pet tn,rr Adlin icns                           Ad, uAtBnde 
_Vsocinadnn C mp igne      _ Sreen Fefrncin doic                    As tionaof                      BeePqeUurctinn
_M.rke StIistie,            _Tra.l"   P.,.Mning  Non. Veiti Po    Advisr                         SPalo.lis                      _M Lieoc
_Cm11 F.t-irnig AdviceU            Vetaind ar  rkers                nn FmStifg Stfck  Wtag
_Work O... Ad.ir            _SeNc .sIo A#pciMi..,            _Fffecfiv ne#ot                        Pobssuc.ekion   of
_Pou@rr Promtin                      o P.t,.iRnrdc  B~vond            Vciio   gpgn             _P.n".4a C.n.r                     AuitF11lAU
_Go-t m'prowemen                   PastoraE C  t.s           _A.i.. HucandrV                 _Cr tdit f       ad
_Oh I,f Prg- 7- j   J_CMtefal ln   Advice2j                          A"..c I. Ail                    Breeding rmd
_Sh.m FtIe.igAd-ieAsciDno                                            B.ckqro...ding
Pmt, ndM.,kol-                                                   Drpn   nl- St.if lo
Crodit
Il Zindl r Pcaicce
2J Mai Proe ince                                                                                                                                                                                 Li  cf A.thorWv
31 P.irtlyv M)Zi.    Preoilce 3M Proit iEDFI Ibl R<gi                                                                                                                                                  cf Annl - raet r Lfd
Maoatn;rnert Prfet IUSAID) io o-I cf Maradi Pro,vinc-  cf                                                                   Il                                                           ...........  f.    r nVnf   Shre in Projecl Fioeocing
f3,11. PFonnen Drvelontlrhof Proiecr ICIDI4                                                                                                                                     -_   _  _ODA W,rhdroe Appficicrons                                           Wrnbd Aok - 190377



LBRD 13722-
E'(                                      .ri 8 o                                                                           120                                        14                                        1*                                         JULY  1978
! ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  !NG E Ri
go    /                                                                                                                    (                                                                                                            ! LIVESTOCK PROJECT
,": - `   ` s>"- --                \`              ~~~~A    G    A    D    E   Z                                                 , 
I                                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LEGAL PASTOIRAL ZONE
,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 , - v 00   \    0   - 0,.-, .; ttCADEZ  /  |  ;_  )  +    Md d3h fD P
-,   '                              ~~~~~~~~~AGADEZ                                                 r-                                                jJdtrie  t3IctoeneetfPfapoic
Jf                           -.             N~~~~~~~~~~~~IEA SMALLABATTOIRS
, |TOEAL N LOCATIONS TO BE DETERMINED IN THE PASTORAL ZONE
. ,.  :    4  `,\ 8,a  /  n                                                                  O         E        1 O       1E          0              /                 *    M INMARK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIN  ARET
ce  o-o  mv  oco                                   ~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY MAR KETS
KILORETERS        //                           ~~~~~~~~STOCK ROUTES
-     TARRED ROADS
D  I F F A ~~~~~~~~~~----LATERITERAS
+  AIRPORTS
  PROVINCIAL CAPITALE
\                        C    H   A              D          I        CAPITAL
CI   OTHER TOWNS
20'ISOHYIETS
~- RIVERS
PROVINCIAL BOUNSARIES
k ek                           ~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BUDPE
i*S,vfve ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRIA 
Medarvjcfe  seBara'  et OR  So-e  Reoven                                           N                V       \e-......a..v,                              MAURITANIA   j         \ALSE~~~~~~MARITANI
M                                                                                                                                     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN A L I  RASOJ
?Lo-             ruP3ERlr '                   rPER
GIINEA  f        VOLTA  '                o-
b.rmdPb=beenfrepmdbVthrh   dddaSsefffeze#Z}e:  dVf reheconvenwanse   \  K   _  <                                                                     7>    i                    9     &    \        tNvjameoe-y" t  ivNNGERRIA /
obv>,Of Imdr=ononhio> anorSmfDlf f@irhed<ffEfdeusfdddu      )7 |\C E                                                st   I            A                                                         sdOAST .40N0401                                                          / et > A
ace mbmceofsuchbounAms  /   S  iKeno                   o                4                        112                                        1~ ~~~            ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~40  !I         OfCeAff                              e 4 t   *<AE



