Document of
The World Bank    FILE' COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2474-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
February 28, 1979
This dounet bu a reudulted distbtion sd ty be med by rpients onIy la the perfoence Of
theier ocal duties. ls conten  my am edils be dlsdo_  wkbtut WoI Bank suthorbstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -         CFAF Franc
Us$1                          CFAF 220
CFAF 1             =         US$0.00455
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Niger: October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   =         0.6215 mile
1 squ re kilometer
(km )                      0.39 square mile
1 centimeter (cm)  =         0.033 feet
1 hectare (ha)     =         2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)   -         2,207 lbs
1 kilogram (kg)    -         2.207 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
APMU           Bank Agricultural Projects Management Recruitment Unit
BDRN           Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
OFEDES         Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol
lGroundwater Development Agency)
PMU            Project Management Unit
Py             Project Year
RMWA           Regional Mission in West Africa
UNCC           Union Nigerienne de Cooperation et de Credit
(National Cooperative and Credit Organization)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ON. L
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Niger
Amount:               US$10.5 Million
Terms:                Standard
Project               The project comprises a five-year program intended to:
Description:         (a) raise rural incomes through increased livestock
productivity both in the pastoral and cropping zones;
(b) obtain pastoralists' participation in efforts to
improve management of their animal, water and pasture
resources; (c) broaden the field of compétence of the
Livestock Department from provision of animal health
services to provision of animal and pastoral produc-
tivity services; and (d) increase and improve cattle
and sheep fattening by smallholders in the cropping
zone. The project will include provision of drugs,
vaccines and feed supplements; delineation of pastoral
units and constitution of formal associations of pasto-
ralists; construction and operation of five pastoral
centers which would each serve several associations of
pastoralists; advice on animal husbandry and range man-
agement techniques and selective extension of stock
watering points; extension of the existing animal health
and marketing infrastructure; provision of credit for
and advice on cattle and sheep fattening, constituting
breeding herds and raising of immature steers; provision
of vehicles, equipment and additional staff and new
offices for the Livestock Department; establishment of
a project management unit including construction of
buildings and provision of staff and consultant services.
All herd-owners, pastoralists and sedentary crop farmers,
in the project area, or over 200,000 families, would
benefit from improved animal health services and about
half of those families would benefit from improved animal
productivity services. In addition, more specific
project activities would benefit 5,000 families in
pastoral centers, 7,500 cattle fatteners per year and
8,000 sheep fatteners per year, mostly women. The
project's incremental output would reach 7,500 tons meat
equivalent and 7,200 tons of milk, worth US$14 million,
after 10 years. The three main project risks are mana-
gerial, particularly in respect of the difficulties to
promote and market drugs and feed supplements, problems
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- hi -
arising from the separation of animal ownership and man-
agement, and the potential slow development of effective
collaboration between pastoralists and technicians. The
managerial risk will be met through establishment of a
Project Management Unit which would include an animal
husbandry section and a commercial and administrative
section. The social risk concerning ownership of animals
is mitigated by the fact that selection of herd managers
is currently based on kin and other well established
ties. The third risk has been reduced as much as possi-
ble by carrying out a sociological test financed under
the Project Preparation Facility and by selecting as the
chief of the project's pastoral activities section a
sociologist familiar with the people of the project area.
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
--------US$ 000    …
Extension and Inputs          1,506      2,351     3,857
Pastoral Centers              1,078      1,429     2,507
Marketing Facilities            482        718     1,200
Credit                        1,641        -       1,641
Management Unit               1,086      1,769     2,855
Base Cost Estimate            5,793      6,267    12,060
Physical Contingencies          275        448       723
Price Contingencies           1,064      1,153     2,217
Total                         7,132      7,868    15,000
%                                48         52       100
Financing Plan:                       IDA   Gov't   CNCA   Beneficiaries   Total
… ------------- ~ US$   000…
Local Cost     4,753    893       972       514        7,132
Foreign Cost   7,247    622       -          -         7,868
12,000  1,514      972       514       15,000
%                 80   10.1       6.5      3.4          100
Estimated
Disbursements:                    FY      FY       FY      FY       FY      FY
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
…US________----    US$ 000…
Annual        600   1,800   3,200   3,200   2,700       500
Cumulative    600   2,400   5,600   8,800  11,500  12,000
Rate of Return:       About 80 percent.
Appraisal Report:    No. 2169-NIR, February 6, 1979



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT -`SSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of US$12
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a livestock project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic mission
visited Niger in October 1978 and is now preparing an economic memorandum; its
main findings are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I contains
country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of about US$250 in 1978, Niger is one of the
poorest African countries and amongst the 29 "least developed countries" so
classified by the United Nations. The country faces a number of formidable
constraints to development including poor soils, unfavorable climatic condi-
tions, landlocked position, high energy costs, high dependence on foreign
factors and low levels of education and technical ability. Agriculture and
livestock together provide employment and livelihood to about 90 percent of the
population and account for nearly half of GNP and a sizeable portion of export
earnings. However, substantial growth was achieved in recent years in indus-
try and particularly in uranium mining which has become an important factor
in expanding the Government's tax base and diversifying the country's exports.
As a result, and in sharp contrast with past trends, domestic gross savings,
mostly from the public sector, increased to 12 percent of GDP in 1978.
Recent Developments
4.        Niger's recent economic developments have been characterized by
growth in the agricultural sector and rapid expansion in mining and related
activities, mainly transport and construction. Following the catastrophic
drought-induced losses in 1973/74, production of the main staples picked up
again in 1974/75 thanks to improved rainfall and increases in producer prices,
but fell again in 1975/76 to about 80 percent of the pre-drought level because
of premature ending and uneven distribution of rainfall in some of the princi-
pal cultivation areas. In 1976/77, rainfall was almost normal and the food



- 2 -
situation improved. 1977/78 production was relatively good compared with
other Sahelian countries where inadequate and untimely rainfall caused again
severe crop failures. The outlook for 1978/79 is good. However, productoin
of groundnuts, the main agricultural export, remains at one-third of pre-
drought level.
5.        The dominant feature of the economy in recent years has been the
continuous expansion in uranium mining and related activities. Between 1971
and 1976, foreign investment in this sector amounted to some $275 million.
Thus, production of uranium concentrates increased rapidly from some 400 tons
to about 2,000 tons in 1978, thereby facilitating the economy's recovery from
the severe effects of the 1973/74 drought. For the 1975-1978 period, overall
real GNP growth was about 9 percent and, in 1978, uranium mining accounted for
about 13 percent of GDP, about two-thirds of total exports, and provided over
one-third of total Governnent revenue. Present forecasts indicate that
uranium production will reach about 3,500-4,000 tons by 1980 with the entry
into production of a second mine.
Public Finance
6.        Over the last seven years, austere spending policies, together with
rapidly rising revenue, mostly from uranium mining, have enabled the Govern-
ment to generate substantial current budgetary surplus. It amounted to
about CFAF 8.3 billion (US$34 million) in fiscal year 1976/77 and may reach
CFAF 13 billion (US$53 million) in fiscal year 1977/78. Two features of
particular importance were introduced in the 1977/78 budget: first, the
elimination of the head tax levied on all citizens between the ages of 15 and
65 and of the income tax on wage earners with an income below CFAF 15,000 per
month, with a view to reducing the tax burden on lower income groups; and
second, the rise in capital expenditures in absolute as well as in relative
terms, from CFAF 10 billion in 1976/77 (28 percent of total budgetary expendi-
tures) to CFAF 13 billion (31 percent) with a corresponding increase in the
share of rural development investments. Both measures reflect Government's
increasing concern with the problems of social equity and economic growth. As
a result of the substantial increase in budgetary savings French budgetary
grants which averaged about CFAF 1.2 billion (US$5.0 million) annually over
the 1970/75 period were discontinued, and the contribution of public savings
to total public investment increased from 10 percent in 1970/75 to more than
25 percent in 1977/78.
Balance of Payments
7.        The rapid increase in export earnings from uranium notwithstanding,
Niger's balance of payments continues to be characterized by a trade deficit:
the imports required for operating the economy as well as for new capital
formation still exceed foreign exchange earnings. This trade deficit was
however more than compensated by the inflow of foreign private and public
capital, so that the overall balance of payments showed a substantial surplus
until 1977. At the end of 1977 Niger's foreign exchange reserves amounted to



- 3 -
some $90 million, equivalent to four months of imports. Preliminary estimates
for 1978 appear less favorable. For one thing, the drought impelled the
Government to import foodgrains worth some US$15 million. For another, the
Government is intent on doubling imports of capital goods so as to speed up
the implementation of development projects. Therefore, despite higher export
proceeds from uranium, foreign exchange reserves declined somewhat in 1978.
Over the near to medium term, however, Niger's trade balance deficit should be
improving not only because of expected further increases in uranium export
earnings, but also because of the potential recovery of agricultural exports.
Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Niger's rural sector provides employment and livelihood to about 90
percent of total population. The Governnent's strategy assigns top priority
to efforts to improve agricultural productivity and to alleviate the economy's
vulnerability to the vagaries of the weather, with a view to ensuring some
degree of food self-sufficiency and promoting cash crops for export.   The
basic constraints to be tackled are the poor and apparently deteriorating soil
fertility and the scarcity of arable land in relation to the rapidly growing
population: the cropping area amounts to about 10 percent of total land area
of which only one-fifth (2 percent) is under cultivation at any given time
under the existing rotation system of cultivation. The Government has there-
fore initiated a "productivity program" aimed at introducing more intensive
farming through provision of extension services, dissemination of adapted
varieties and introduction of appropriate agricultural techniques and imple-
ments. Special efforts are needed to restore exports of groundnuts which
suffered from the drought in 1972/74 and pests in recent years. Increasing
attention is also given to forestry in recognition of the vital role of
forests in maintaining the country's fragile ecological equilibrium and as
the most important source of energy in the medium term.
9.        While on one hand the productivity program, which is eventually
expected to cover the entire rainfed agricultural area, represents the best
way to improve the standards of living of the vast majority of the rural
population, the Government also gives priority to development of irrigation
schemes that could lessen the country's vulnerability to the vagaries of the
weather. At present, there are some 16,000 ha which the Government is devel-
oping for double cropping at the rate of about 1,000-2,000 ha annually.
Full development of the country's considerable irrigation potential would,
however, depend on the construction of a proposed regulatory dam on the
Niger River.
10.       The Governnent also attaches priority to the exploration and exploita-
tion of the country's mineral resources. As indicated above, uranium already
provides much needed momentum to the economy through substantial Government
revenues and export earnings. In addition, there are indications of large
but as yet unassessed phosphate deposits. Several foreign companies are also
actively engaged in oil and gas exploration. There is therefore a considerable
potential for mineral production; the judicious utilization of the resulting



mining proceeds could lay a sound basis for sustained economic growth and
diversification. The industrial sector offers reasonably hopeful opportun-
ities for productive employment of Niger's urban and rural underutilized
population. Through technical assistance and increased investments, Govern-
ment is attempting to improve its industrial policies.
11.       Despite considerable achievement in the past two decades in terms
of primary and secondary school enrollments, Niger's education base has
improved only marginally: more than 90 percent of the population is still
illiterate. Overall, the shortage of qualified manpower for project iden-
tification, preparation and implementation, constitutes the most critical
development constraint in the medium term. There is increasing recognition
within Government that a major educational reform is needed. Another limiting
factor is the inadequate economic infrastructure, mainly for transport, which
has also received high priority and increased financial resources.
Development Planning
12.       Government development objectives are broadly reflected in the
Interim Program, currently being implemented, which proposed an ambitious
program of public investments of CFAF 78.2 billion (US$320 million) during
the 1976-1978 period. This program emphasized infrastructure and power (46
percent of total investments), agriculture (33 percent) and development of
human resources (18 percent). About one-fourth of total investment was
expected to be financed by domestic resources, reflecting the Government's
determination to mobilize domestic savings to the fullest extent possible.
While the final outcome of the Interim Plan will not be known for sometime,
indications are that actual implementation will fall short of the initial
provisions due to absorptive capacity constraints and delays in external aid
commitments. A new Five Year Plan covering the 1979-83 period is currently
under preparation. It is expected to further the general strategy initiatives
under the Interim Plan. The recent expansion in uranium production has
undoubtedly strengthened the Government's capacity to contribute to the
financing of public investments. Nevertheless, in view of Niger's extreme
poverty, foreign aid agencies should continue to finance a high proportion of
total project costs, including local costs in appropriate cases.
Foreign Aid
13.       Between 1971 and 1977, Niger's total recorded net flow of re-
sources from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about U$$80
million annually of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. No reliable
information is available on external flows from other sources.  The European
Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major aid
donors. In the last two years Saudi Arabia and Algeria have expanded their
programs of lending to Niger.
14.       At the end of 1976, external public debt outstanding amounted
to US$284 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$135 million.
The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services was



- 5-
3.5 percent in 1973 and 5.4 percent in 1976. No significant increase in
external debt has taken place over the last two years and no debt servicing
problems are foreseen in the near future. The Bank Group ranked as Niger's
second largest creditor with 19.4 percent of total debt outstanding and
disbursed. However, the Association's share in total debt service payments
is insignificant owing to IDA's favorable amortization schedule.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
15.       Beginning with an IDA credit for road construction in 1964, fourteen
IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so far been approved for
Niger totalling US$78.0 million. Past Bank Group lending was heavily concen-
trated on transport and communications, where inadequate facilities hampered
the development of the country: of the fourteen projects approved to date,
four aimed at expanding and upgrading the domestic road network, one provided
for improvement and extension of existing facilities at Niamey international
airport, one for the installation of a more reliable telecommunications system.
IDA's lending to date for the rural sector includes an agricultural credit
project, a drought relief project, the Maradi rural development project,
a forestry project and an irrigation project. Annex II contains a summary
statement of these credits as of December 31, 1978 and notes on the execution
of on-going projects.
16.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will increasingly focus on efforts to ensure some degree of
food self-sufficiency and to improve the incomes and standard of living of
the rural population; to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure; to
develop alternative approaches to training and educational reform; and to
diversify the economic structure and expand modern sector employment. We
will also continue to advise Government on policy issues and options through
our economic and sector work.
17.       For the two fiscal years 1979-80, the bulk of IDA's lending to Niger
will go to the rural sector. In addition to the proposed livestock project,
an irrigation project has been approved to assist Government in creating the
necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation
development program and in expanding rice and vegetable production. A second
rural development project, designed to increase rural incomes through increased
productivity in rainfed farming in the Dosso area, has also just been appraised.
18.       In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance for the
construction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program while continuing our support for maintenance of
the existing infrastructure; a feeder roads project will mark a first step
towards this objective. In education, our objectives are to help the Govern-
ment to address the urgent problem of developing qualified high and middle
level manpower, particularly for agricultural development activities, and to
achieve some expansion in enrollment, improvement in the quality of existing



- 6 -
institutions and development of non-formal education programs. In general,
all future projects will also include, as needed, training, technical assist-
ance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Output and Income
19.       In 1970, the rural sector accounted for about 60 percent of GDP
and 80 percent of exports. Now, the sector accounts for about 40 percent of
GDP and 30 percent of exports. This dramatic change reflects not only the
rapid rise in uranium production but also poor performance in the rural
sector. Recent crop production has been disappointing, particularly groundnuts
for which production has declined due to low producer prices, and disease and
subsequent difficulties in reconstituting seed stocks, from 250,000 tons to
100,000 tons. Although farmers have switched into grains and cowpeas, crops
now account for less than 30 percent of GDP and 10 percent of exports.
Livestock production was disrupted by the 1973 drought which, according to
Government estimates, reduced the national herd from 4.2 million cattle to 2.2
million and from 9 million smallstock to 7 million. Although herd reconstitu-
tion has begun, pre-drought cattle numbers cannot be reached for another
decade. Increases in prices of livestock products have, however, largely
offset the reduced volume of production; livestock now accounts for 18 percent
of GDP and 17 percent of exports.
20.       There have been no significant losses from contagious cattle diseases
for many years. Emphasis is given to strict prophylactic measures against
rinderpest, which is disappearing, and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, which
is a threat in the east and the west of the country. For the cattle herd, pre-
drought survey results revealed modest productivity levels, with a calving
rate of 60 percent and a first year mortality rate of 35 percent. Although
no post-drought surveys have been undertaken, there has been no significant
change in livestock inputs or management methods and productivity has prob-
ably remained unchanged; the cattle offtake rate is about Il percent. For
smallstock and camels, the situation is less well controlled but also less
clearly understood; vaccines against anthrax in smallstock and camels have
only recently been made available.  Very little is known about productivity
of smallstock and camels; by inference from surveys undertaken in neighbor-
ing countries, the offtake rate is about 25 percent for sheep, 35 percent
for goats, and 9 percent for camels. Total meat output is currently about
70,000 tons per year worth about CFAF 25 billion (US$110 million).
21.       Apart from a few state ranches and some smallholder fattening in
the south of the country, livestock is raised by traditional means. Although
there are both nomads and wholly-sedentarized livestock producers, traditional
animal husbandry is mainly a transhumant activity, whereby herds are moved
north behind the rains and south in the dry season. For about eight months
a year herds are watered from wells which, until about 20 years ago, were



- 7 -
privately constructed and owned, generally by groups of pastoralists but also
by individuals in cases where water was at shallow depth. Over the last two
decades, however, Government has constructed modern, concrete-lined wells and
some diesel-powered tubewells that are open to all-comers. Over 90 percent
of the cattle are managed but not necessarily owned by the Tuareg and Fulani
people, who each make up about 10 percent of the Nigerien population. The
extent to which management and ownership are separated is not known but it is
common and has increased as a consequence of the drought.
22.       The integration of livestock and crop farming is still very limited.
One widespread but modest link is obtained through contracts between pastoral-
ists and sedentary farmers whereby animals grazing crop residues fertilize
the fields. A more substantial link is beginning to be practiced in the south
of the country; crop residues are harvested and stored for feeding to horses,
sheep and goats kept in farmers' compounds. Very recently, cattle fattening
has been started. Animal traction is little used, except for the drawing of
water, but there is growing demand for work oxen and carts and, to a lesser
extent, implements for cultivation.
23.       The impact of the drought varied considerably, depending mainly
on the degree of mobility of livestock producers. In 1974, it was estimated
that about 75,000 families had lost most if not all their animals. An unknown
number of these people have emigrated but there is some evidence to suggest
that such migrations are temporary if not seasonal rather than permanent.
Any estimation of an average income from livestock necessarily disguises a
wide range of income; and little is known about the dispersions of income
about the average. Nonetheless for an average pastoral family of 7 people,
owning 20 cattle and 50 smallstock, the annual income from livestock in 1978
would be about CFAF 150,000 (US$680), plus milk worth about CFAF 60,000
(US$270).  Additional income from cropping, fishing and commerce varies
considerably.
Marketing, Processing and Taxation
24.       Animals are marketed through a traditional private system in which
pastoralists sell stock either directly or through professional collection
agents to large traders. Apart from exports of 500 tons per year of chilled
meat, animals are moved on the hoof to both domestic and foreign, mainly
Nigerian, consumption centers. Since the livestock head tax was abolished
in 1973, Government collects livestock taxes by means of export duties and
license fees payable by live animal exporters and butchers. Total annual tax
revenue is now about CFAF 200 million (US$0.9 million) or less than 1 percent
of Government revenue. In early 1978, Government abolished the poll tax
payable by all adult citizens and, accordingly, pastoralists now pay no
personal taxes to central Government. Livestock vaccinations are also pro-
vided free of charge.



-8-
Institutions
25.       The administration and development of the livestock industry is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development, which operates
through its Livestock Department comprised of about 300 technical staff
including 15 veterinarians. The Department is primarily concerned with
disease control, in which it has been successful, but the provision of animal
husbandry advice has received little attention until recently. Since 1975,
the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has financed credit for cattle
fattening and animal traction; repayments exceeded 97 percent on 2,000 fatten-
ing loans in 1977. Access to credit is provided by local branches of the
Union Nigerienne de Cooperation et de Credit (UNCC), which is well-represented
in the south of the project area. Rural water supply is the responsibility of
the Office des Eaux du Sous-sol (OFEDES), a Government agency with financial
autonomy. OFEDES is a well-managed organization with a network of regional
well construction and repair bases that are working effectively.
Subsector Strategy
26.       The physical production potential of the semi-arid pastoral zone
is not great but, in the aftermath of the drought, it is not being fully ex-
ploited. There are opportunities to accelerate the growth of cattle numbers,
to improve livestock productivity, and to increase the physical potential
through better management of natural resources. In the cropping zone, by
contrast, there is now little scope to increase herd numbers but there are
opportunities to increase livestock productivity. In the long term, the
livestock industry can be expected to become increasingly specialized by zone:
breeding in the semi-arid pastoral zone, raising immature steers in the
intermediate cereals zone, and fattening in the southern mixed cropping
zone.
27.       Government's main objectives for the livestock subsector are:  first,
herd and flock reconstitution; second, increased animal productivity to gen-
erate exports at the pre-drought level; and, third, management of the semi-
arid pastoral zone to preserve its ecological balance. No corresponding
strategy has been developed with the result that a variety of projects using
different approaches have been designed, including state-run ranches and
cattle breading centers, and provision of services to pastoralists. Projects
of each type are now being implemented but it is unlikely that state-run
animal production in semi-arid areas can be more efficient than management
by pastoralists themselves. Nor are there adequate staff to permit pursuit
of these different approaches at the pace envisaged by their respective pro-
ponents. Concerning the provision of services to pastoralists, a consensus
has recently been reached in Governnent that the best approach would be a
blend of the earlier design -- vaccinations and stock watering points -- and
the recently-perceived need to promote animal and pastoral productivity through
increased participation of pastoralists.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       The project was identified by the Bank's Regional Mission for
West Africa (RMWA), in November 1976, prepared by consultants in early 1977,
and pre-appraised in January 1978. Further preparation was undertaken in
March 1978 by Government's Livestock Department, assisted by an RMWA staff
member. The project was appraised by an IDA mission in April/May 1978.
Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington from January 4 to
6, 1979 with a delegation led by H.E. Andre Joseph Wright. Annex III contains
supplementary project data. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2169-NIR is being
circulated separating to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
29.       The main objectives are (a) to increase incomes through increased
livestock productivity both in the pastoral and cropping zones, (b) to obtain
pastoralists' participation in efforts to improve management of their animal,
water and pasture resources, (c) to broaden the field of competence of the
Livestock Department from provision of animal health services to provision of
animal and pastoral productivity services, and (d) to increase and improve
cattle and sheep fattening by smallholders in the cropping zone.
Project Area
30.       The pro ect area would include the three provinces (s2e Map) of
Maradi (39,000 km ), Zinder (145,000 km ) and Diffa (140,000 km ). Covering
the whole of the south-east of the country, the project area would extend
about 800 km east-west and about 400 km north-south. The north-eastern part
of the project area has a saharan climate with annual rainfall of less than
200 mm.  Between the 200 mm and 350 mm isohyets the area is essentially
pastoral; the legally-defined Pastoral Zone closely follows these isohyets.
Further south, the cropping zone can be divided into an intermediate agro-
pastoral zone bounded by the 350 mm and 500 mm isohyets, and a mixed 5ropping
zone, where rainfall exceeds 500 mm; the latter covers only 40,000 km in the
total project area of 320,000 km2.
31.       The human population of the project area is about 2 million of whom
about 1.6 million are sedentary crop farming people, mainly Hausa; the remain-
der, mainly Fulani and Tuareg people, are primarily if not exclusively pas-
toralists. The livestock population of the project area is about 1.3 million
cattle, 4.3 million smallstock and 0.1 million camels, in each case about
50 percent of the national herds.
32.       The two towns of importance in the project area, Maradi and Zinder,
each have about 50,000 inhabitants. There are 14 other administrative centers
in the project area, each with a population of a few thousand. A paved road
links Niamey to Zinder and Goure to Lake Chad; construction will soon begin on
the 180 km stretch between Zinder and Goure. Maradi and Zinder are both less
than 300 km from Kano in northern Nigeria, to which they are both linked by



- 10 -
paved roads. The rural road network in the cropping zone of the project
area is well developed; by contrast, the tracks in the pastoral zone require
four-wheel drive vehicles. Primary schools, adult functional literacy pro-
grams, medical dispensaries, village health worker training programs, and
cooperatives, are concentrated in the southern cropping zone; in this area,
2
population density typically exceeds 25 per km . Further north, production
techniques are necessarily more extensive, the human population less dense
and more mobile and it is accordingly more difficult and expensive to pro-
vide services.
Project Description
34.       The project would provide the means to take advantage of the exis.-
ing opportunities, in the pastoral zone, to accelerate the growth of cattle
numbers, to improve livestock productivity, and to increase the physical
potential through better management of natural resources, and, in the crop-
ping zone, to increase livestock productivity. The project would build on the
recent consensus in Government that vaccinations and stock watering points are
necessary but insufficient means to promote animal and pastoral productivity
and that they should be complemented by measures to ensure collaboration of
pastoralists and technicians in resource management. The project would
utilize associations of pastoralists as the structure through which techni-
cians would work with pastoralists.
35.       Associations of pastoralists would be cooperative entities based on
existing social groups. Most groups have a geographic identity, being the
area in which they customarily graze their animals, having defacto rights over
land use. Such areas, or pastoral units, would be identified by project staff
who would hold discussions with pastoralists with a view to forming an associ-
ation, to which eligibility for membership would be determined by the respec-
tive social group. Associations would be legally recognized bodies, which would
be given exclusive rights to existing and any new watering points in their
respective areas as the first critical step towards official recognition of
ownership rights over ostensibly communal grazing lands. Members of associa-
tions would receive a broader package of services than would be made available
elsewhere in the project area, including: (a) priority for supply of drugs
and feed supplements; (b) treatments against worms and ticks; (c) materials
for castration; (d) access to two new forms of credit, for backgrounding 1/
and breeding, for which the associations would provide the guarantees; (e)
improvements to existing wells and selective extension of stock watering
points where warranted by land-use patterns and carrying capacity; and (f)
advice on range management measures such as creation of grazing reserves,
limitation of tree pruning and bush fires, and the trade-off between produc-
tivity and herd numbers. First priority for delivery of these services would
be given to members of associations within the sphere of influence, about a
1/   Purchase of 12-18 month old cattle, growing them out over 18-24 months
and sale to fatteners.



- il -
30 km radius, of pastoral centers; such centers, to be constructed under the
project, would include a livestock post, a small human health dispensary and
a warehouse for food stocks.
36.       The project, to be implemented over five years, would include:
(a) delivery of antiparasitic drugs, vitamins and feed supple-
ments, which would be sold at full-cost prices throughout
the project area for the duration of the project (Section
3.05(e) of the Credit Agreement), and delivery of new
vaccines that are not at present readily available. Explicit
budgetary provision will be made for the purchase of vaccines
(Section 3.05(a) of the Credit Agreement). To ensure the
replacement of stocks of drugs and food, revolving funds will
be maintained by the Project Unit with Government providing
additional funds when necessary (Section 3.15 of the Credit
Agreement);
(b) delineation of pastoral units based on traditional land-
use patterns, formation and recognition of associations
of pastoralists, and construction and operation of five
pastoral centers which would each serve several asso-
ciations of pastoralists. All legislative and adminis-
trative steps will be taken by Government prior to December
31, 1979 to authorize the establishment of associations of
pastoralists pursuant to authorized charters setting forth
their rights and obligations, including exclusive rights to
the use of watering points (Section 3.06 of the draft Credit
Agreement). The final design and site selection of each
pastoral center would be subject to the Association's
approval (Section 3.07(a) of the Credit Agreement);
(c) provision of a package of services to associations of
pastoralists, including animal health, supplies and advice
on animal husbandry and range management techniques, and
selective extension of stock watering points; in the five
pastoral centers the services would also include human
health and food stocks. The project would provide new
pastoral wells only where an association of pastoralists
had been constituted in an identified pastoral unit with
sufficient grazing resources and that association had
undertaken to provide all unskilled labor, in kind or
cash, required for well-digging (Section 3.08 of the
Credit Agreement);
(d) credit, to be operated through associations of pastoralists,
for backgrounding of immature steers and, for destitute
pastoralists, for constituting breeding herds;



- 12 -
(e) extension of the existing animal health and marketing infra-
structure by (i) construction of 11 veterinary posts and 20
vaccination yards; (ii) improvements to two main, six sec-
ondary and 13 small markets; (iii) construction of two small
abattoirs; (iv) marking out of seven stock routes; and
(v) rehabilitation of slaughter slabs;
(f) credit for, and advice on cattle and sheep fattening by
small-holders;
(g) vehicles and equipment for the Livestock Department, and
some additional staff;
(h) staff and buildings for the Project Management Unit in
Zinder and offices for Livestock Department staff in Diffa.
The proposed project is envisaged as the first phase of a continuing program
of livestock development. Depending on the results obtained under the pro-
posed project, a follow-up project to be prepared by the staff of the Project
Management Unit would provide financing for more pastoral service centers
and more backgrounding, breeding and fattening credits; in addition, the
organizational framework will have been set up to permit more specific range
management activities.
Project Implementation
37.       Since the project includes both pioneering and proven activities,
and requires the close collaboration of several institutions, Government
would set up a Project Management Unit in the Livestock Department of the
Ministry of Rural Development.  The unit would have three levels of respon-
sibility (Section 3.01 of the Credit Agreement.) First, it would be directly
responsible for all activities concerning pastoral units, associations and
centers. Second, it would procure civil works, equipment and supplies on
behalf of the Livestock Department; while the department would be responsible
for the day-to-day management of these items the project management unit
would be responsible for their increased utilization and effectiveness as
well as introducing improved accounting, maintenance and stock control pro-
cedures. Third, it would be responsible for the coordinated intervention
of different agencies, particularly regarding pastoral centers and cattle
and sheep fattening credits. The project management unit would have three
sections -- Animal Husbandry, Pastoral Activities, and Commercial and Admin-
istrative -- the latter two sections would be headed by internationally-
recruited personnel. The qualifications, experience and terms of reference of
the Project Manager, the three section chiefs and Credit Officer were agreed
upon with Government (Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement). In addition, the
terms and conditions of employment of the chiefs of the Pastoral Activities
Section and the Commercial and Administrative Section would be satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.01(b) of the Credit Agreement). Appointment of
the Project Manager and the chiefs of the Pastoral Activities and Commercial
and Administrative Sections would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit (Section 5.01(b) of the Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
38.       The project includes three innovative activities in which livestock
producers and Livestock Department staff would need formal training. First,
services would be provided through paraveterinary workers who would have to
be trained, and staff would have to be taught how to train them. The chief
of the Animal Husbandry Section would undertake such staff training. About
60 staff and 250 paraveterinary workers would be trained under this project.
The second innovation concerns the identification of pastoral units and the
constitution and role of associations of pastoralists. Training in these
activities of about 50 staff would be undertaken by the chief of the Pastoral
Activities Section. The third innovation, i.e. the proposed breeding and
backgrounding credits, would necessitate training for about 50 staff and 250
members of associations, to be carried out by the Credit Officer under the
Chief of the Pastoral Activities Section. The project would also provide
for training of paramedical workers through Ministry of Health staff to be
stationed at pastoral centers.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
39.       Project costs are expressed net of taxes since Governient has
notified the Association of its intention to exempt the project from import
duties and identifiable taxes. Project costs are estimated at US$15.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$7.9 million (52 percent).  Total con-
tingencies amount to approximately 25 percent of base costs. The estimated
project costs include the cost of the internationally-recruited staff and
consultants (US$1.07 million). Technical assistance costs are estimated at
US$80,000 per man-year, based on recent experience of the Bank's Agricultural
Project Management Unit; consultant costs at US$8,900 per man-month of which
US$6,500 for salary with the remainder consisting of living expenses and
travel costs.
40.       The proposed credit of US$12 million would finance 80 percent of
project costs representing 100 percent of foreign costs and 58 percent of
local costs. Governnent would contribute US$1.5 million for 35 percent of
incremental local staff salaries and operating costs. The CNCA would contri-
bute US$1.0 million, which would cover loans for cattle and sheep fattening.
Beneficiaries would contribute US$0.5 million.
41.       To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project, Govern-
ment will: (a) ensure that an account in the name of the Project Unit be
established with the Banque de Developpement du Niger (BDRN) Zinder; (b) de-
posit an initial amount of CFAF 150 million (US$0.7 million) into the account;
and (c) replenish the account quarterly on the basis of the project cash
forecasts in order to provide the project with sufficient funds to meet
project expenditures for the following three months (Section 3.01(c) of the
Credit Agreement). The establishment of this account with an initial deposit
of CFAF 150 million would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(a) of the Credit Agreement.)



- 14 -
Credit Terms
42.       Loans for backgrounding and for cattle, and sheep fattenyng would
bear interest, as in the existing cattle fattening credit program, at 9.5
percent per year plus a premium (presently 1.5 percent) for a mortality
guarantee fund (Sections 3.10 and 3.14 (b) of the Credit Agreement). With
negligible actual mortality, the effective nominal rate would be 11 percent
per year. Since average annual inflation in 1975-1977 was 8.5 percent, and
though it may be somewhat higher over the next three years, the real interest
rate would be positive. Loans for cattle breeding would, by contrast, be
interest-free in view of the destitution of loan recipients and the long
gestation period before herd growth provides adequate cash income for a family
(Section 3.14(c) of the Credit Agreement).
Procurement
43.       Procurement of civil works with the exception of pastoral wells
(estimated cost US$3.3 million), vehicles and equipment (estimated cost
US$1.5 million) and inputs with the exception of vaccines (estimated incre-
mental cost US$1.2 million), would be through international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Association guidelines in the case of contracts
over US$50,000. In the case of contracts of US$50,000 or less but more than
US$10,000, procurement would be through competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures, which are acceptable to the Association. For contracts
of US$10,000 or less, direct competitive purchasing would be employed. Pas-
toral wells (estimated cost US$1.3 million) would be constructed by OFEDES
under a negotiated contract satisfactory to the Association since there is
insufficient competition among local contractors and insufficient interest
from foreign firms in dispersed rural works. Vaccines for smallstock and
camels (estimated cost US$0.3 million) would be procured from the livestock
section of the National Agricultural Research Institute, a non-profit body
with a proven record of quality products. Animals to be acquired on credit
and their feed (estimated incremental cost US$2.0 million) would be procured
locally by or with the concurrence of loan recipients. The services of
internationally-recruited staff and consultants would be obtained following
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Disbursement
44.       The credit would be disbursed against:  100 percent of expenditures
for civil works, with the exception of unskilled labor required for pastoral
well construction (US$3.8 million), vehicles and equipment (US$1.3 million),
incremental stocks of input supplies (US$1.3 million), amounts disbursed on
loans for cattle breeding and backgrounding (US$0.45 million), and expatriate
staff and consultants (US$1.07 million); 65 percent of expenditures for in-
cremental local staff (US$1.0 million); and 65 percent of expenditures for
operating cost items, with the exception of final distribution of drugs and
feed supplements (US$1.2 million). An amount of up to US$80,000 would be
used to refund the advance under the Project Preparation Facility. An amount



- 15 -
of US$1.8 million would be unallocated.  Disbursements would be fully docu-
mented; disbursement against loans, staff and operating costs would, however,
be made against certified statements of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted to the Association but retained by the Borrower
and made available for inspection by the Association supervision missions.
Accounting and Auditing
45.       Accounts for the project would be kept under acceptable commercial
accounting practices. The project account would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Audited annual accounts
would be submitted to the Association within six months of the closing of the
financial year (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the Credit Agreement).
Financial Implications
46.       Government's contribution to recurrent costs after the project
development period would amount to about US$0.50 million in present prices.
This compares to additional revenue accruing to Government from the project
of about US$0.08. Government would therefore incur a net deficit from
project-induced expenditures and revenue of about US$0.42 million per year.
This situation reflects Government's policy to transfer part of the increas-
ing uranium mining revenues to productive activities in the rural sector.
Benefits
47.       The successful introduction of associations of pastoralists and
pastoral centers would be a significant innovation; the effective collabora-
tion between pastoralists and technicians in resource management would have
major ecological benefits which, though long term, would be economically
worthwhile. In addition to animal health and productivity services, the
pastoral centers would also provide for human health services, for the storage
of grain for human consumption and other basic foodstuffs for sales during
the late dry season. All herd-owners in the project area, or over 200,000
families, would    benefit from improved animal health services (vaccinations)
and about half those families would benefit from improved animal productivity
services (drugs and feed supplements). Increased output of milk, and of meat
from smallstock and camels, would be consumed mainly by the producers them-
selves. By contrast, most of the increased cattle production would be ex-
ported, mainly on the hoof to Nigeria. Annual incremental output, which
arises mainly from improved animal health and productivity, would reach 7,500
tons meat equivalent and 7,200 tons of milk, worth US$14 million, after 10
years. In addition, more specific project activities, with more substantial
benefits per recipient, would benefit 5,000 families in pastoral centers,
7,500 cattle fatteners per year, and 8,000 sheep fatteners per year, mostly
women. For the average herd-owning family in the pastoral zone, the annual
income from livestock in 1979 constant prices would increase from about
US$1,100 at present, to US$1,600 ten years after project inception for those
who are beneficiaries of pastoral centers, and to US$1,500 for those who are
not. By Project Year 20, it is expected to reach US$1,900 and US$1,600



- 16 -
respectively, the former continuing to increase and the latter becoming
constant, and more vulnerable to drought, as the limit to readily-available
feedstuff is reached. Average incomes from livestock accruing to herd-owners
in the cropping zone would increase only marginally, reflecting the limited
scope for further extensive livestock production in this area where income
from livestock, though significant, is secondary to income from cropping.
48.       High estimated returns are a common feature of livestock projects
that provide for minor changes in extensive animal production systems because,
while the first two risks mentioned in para. 50 apply, costs are sunk and
the return on incremental inputs is, in percentage terms, high. There is,
however, an absolute, quickly-attained limit imposed by readily-available
feedstuff on the scope for making such investments. For more intensive animal
production projects, by contrast, estimated and actual returns in percentage
terms are typically more modest yet, provided returns are at an acceptable
level, the scope for making such investments is large. The risks differ too;
for projects that envisage structural change in pastoralists' resource manage-
ment, such as the pastoral center component of the proposed project, the third
risk mentioned in para. 50 applies. Returns of both types are illustrated in
the following economic rates of return over 20 years for the four main compo-
nents of the proposed project: pastoral zone (11 percent of project costs):
over 100 percent; pastoral centers (31 percent of project costs): 8 or 15
percent depending on exact location of the centers; cropping zone (42 percent
of project costs): 100 percent; and cattle and sheep fattening (10 percent of
project costs): 17 percent. The average rate of return for these components
covering 94 percent of project costs would be 82 percent.
49.       The high rates of return to the pastoral zone and cropping zone
components arise from the substantial and rapid benefits from animal health
and productivity measures whereby net benefits would be positive in all but
the first two years. In addition, most of the work would be undertaken by
existing Livestock Department staff. The initial herd value, too, would
be a sunk cost. By contrast, the far lower but still acceptable rates of
return to pastoral centers arise from slow growth in incremental benefits,
especially through Project Year 10; such slow growth also renders the return
to pastoral centers insensitive to changes in costs and benefits.
Project Risks
50.       The three main risks are managerial, particularly in respect of
the difficulties to promote and market drugs and feed supplements, problems
arising from the separation of animal ownership and herd management, and
the possible ineffectiveness of associations of pastoralists and pastoral
centers. Drug and feed supplement marketing requires a sympathetic under-
standing of pastoralists' conceptions of animal health, diseases and cures, a
willingness to make frequent visits in harsh conditions to pastoralists, and
an ability to organize timely supplies and good storage of products. Govern-
ment and Livestock Department staff are, however, keen to accept the challenge
of their increased responsibilities under the project. Moreover, the Project
Management Unit's animal husbandry section would be headed by an experienced



- 17 -
senior livestock officer, the Unit's commercial and administrative section
would handle all procurement, and the project includes technical support
services by consultants to help design and monitor animal productivity mea-
sures. The second risk is that pastoralists managing animals which they do
not own would be insufficiently concerned with improving animal productivitv.
This risk applies, potentially, to all cattle in the cropping zone (62 percent
of all cattle) or 34 percent of all livestock in the project area. Since,
however, owners select managers in whom they have confidence, probably based
on kin and other ties, the risk is considered acceptable. Moreover, there has
been no discernible decline in demand for animal health services in the last
few years even though the separation of ownership and management increased as
a consequence of the drought. The third risk, that associations of pastoral-
ists and that effective collaboration between pastoralists and technicians
would be slow to develop, is significant but pertains to the innovative part
of the project rather than the whole. To reduce this risk, a pastoral unit
identification test was undertaken in part of the project area in August-
September 1978. Headed by a sociologist, the team identified seven pastoral
units and concluded that associations of pastoralists could indeed be consti-
tuted and operational. In addition, the chief of the Project Management
Unit's pastoral activities section, a sociologist familiar with the project
area, has already been identified. Above all, senior Livestock Department
staff, aware of the danger of a top-down approach to animal and pastoral
productivity, are keen to begin to work with pastoralists rather than simply
with their animals.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associ-
ation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include (a) establishment of a
project account with an initial deposit of CFAF 150 million and (b) appoint-
ment of the Project Manager and chiefs of the pastoral activities section
and commercial and administrative section of the project management unit.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 28, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
Annex I
NIGER - SOCAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  1  of  6
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGER                                                   L
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECEUT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1267.0                                                  SAME         SAM      NEIT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL     180.0                                NOST RECENT     GEOGRAPRIC   iNCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /1 ESTIMATE  b      REGION L        CROUP Ld   GROIP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  80.0       110.0    160.0             223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGCAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       5.0        25.0      35.0            86.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         3.1         4.0       4.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8          8.2       9.4             13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        2.0         3.0       4.0             18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     17.0        22.0      27.0             53.6      254.i        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        44.5      43.0             -.4        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         53.0        52.6      52.2 /t          52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.9       4.8 ]f           2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GRONTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.5         2.7       2.7              2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              4.5         6.3       5.5              5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     52.4        52.3      52.2             46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     28.4        25.7      25.5             20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         3.5       3.5              3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..        ..              2.5       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
FER C&PITA (1970-100)             99.2       100.0      96.0             94.2       96.4       104.3
FER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                   93.0        83.0      80.0             90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          74.0        72.0      69.0             55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AliD PULSE        ..        24.0 L&   23.1             17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          ..        ..               ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9        38.5      38.5             43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TROUSAND)                          200.0       162.0 /R      *-           138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         20.0      27.0             22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        37.0      36.0             66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                                         19.0      26.0             10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         1.0       3.0             23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                                         10.0      30.0             70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                                .          ..        1.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN         71000.0 /h  58260.0   41060.0          21757.5    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     7500.0 ,h   7040.0   4970.0            3473.8     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2200.0       1850.0    1200.0           645.4     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               ..       350.0      160.0           172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..      4250.0   3460.0            1292.6     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS FER HOSPITAL BED         10.4 L       34.7        ..            19.2       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..             4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..             5.0        4.8
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..             4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMHER OF PERSONS FER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         *.              ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..              ..        8.7         10.3



- 20 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                      Page  2  of  6
RYEMU5CE CROUPS (ADJXSTED *hGtS
NIGER                         - lOST RECDlT EST sAiT )
SAIS        1*111t    11 U tUl
MOST UC6E1T     GEOoAPRIC   IltCOIZ        7m
1960 h      1970 A  EST7aWTE /b      RDGIOI Le   CROUFP 1d    UOUP /
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARY:    TOTAL                  5.0         14.0      17.0            52.1        62.9        75.8
FEMMLE                3.0         9.0       12.0            37.6       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.3          1.0       2.0             8.0        14.4        17.7
FEKALE                0.1         1.0        1.0             5.0         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 4.0           3.0       2.2             7.2         6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0 /h      39.0      41.0            43.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         17.0         20.0      21.0            22.8        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.0           ..        ..             20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TH0USAND
POPULATION                         0.3          1.0       1.9             3.9         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         36.0        ..            40.1        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POP ULATION                         ..          ,,         ,,             2.2         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.3          0.5       0.5             3.9         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE FER CAPITA   ..          0.2        *-              1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      770.0 /k   1900.0         ..
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   9.3          9.9      10.1            32.6        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             97.0 /k      91.0        ..            73.3        60.7        5à.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 1.4         2.2         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..            42.0       39.8         31.8
HALE                                59.3         58.3      57.5            54.8       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                .-          ,.         *-            27.3       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1          1.0        ..             1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   23.0          ..         ..            25.7       20.3         19.5
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.0          ..        ..             55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0          *-        '-              5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0          ..         ..            14.5       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      133.0           108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       63.0            74.1       71.9        97.9
EST ItATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ FER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           .         ..           124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      40.0             59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIrATED POPULATION BEImDW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       35.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       35.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
Not a.,tiable
- NtIt apptlcahle.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populat1on-eighted geoetric mean. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the o..t populated country in each group. Coverage of countries amena the
indicat,rs depends on availabiltty of data and is not unifora.
jb   miles otherwiae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; snd for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1976.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Low Incow- ($280 or lesa per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incoe
(f281-550 per capite, 1976);  /f  Age 15-59 and 60 yeara and over respectively;  14  1972;  th  1962.
L4  1964;  /1  1966;  /I  Excludes labor force of Niaey city, notd population and foreigners.
September 1978



- 21 -
Annex I
KLY TO COUNTHrIES DY REGI0 N AND INCOM!E CTIOUpIO
Page 3 of 6
Rtgion/ino.  rCroup                Lav 1nc.vaL                       L-ow    Middl               Intee-di.t. Middle                    UpPOr Middld.            Igh  -ncae F/f              Counirrea
Inct /a                   _ Inna4                                1iOd ~  In1 Oto eporiere
lento                   Misalti           Angola                    Ch..                                    DJibouti                  Cbon
Buruondi                14.15             Innasonn~Mali  Rh                 Co.et                           Réunion
Caninal Africon  »p.   Meambiq.           Cnroo_                   hMuritt.
Chld                    Niger             CapQ Varda                Netibi
Cm,ror                   Rnvde            Conlo, PS.                Say.h.ll.a
Othiopi.                Sierra Lon.       Eq.otorItl Cuina.
AFRIC A SOUJTH        Cabia, Th.               Sn lie           Liberi
OF %4H 4RA            Cui ...                  T.nsnl            K  riin
r uin .. - Biu.. ..     Tot.              Ni rint
x4nya                   Usnd.             RhodoIt
Leotho                 IUppZr Volt        S.o TIm  & Pritnip.
Mad.5.saîr              Zaire             Sna*gal
Sdbie
PCyDt                                     Morocce                   Algerta                                Bohrain                     ar4en                      Kuos i e
N9ORTH a-RICA         -Yern 6R                                                             Jerdan                                 Tran                       Onan                        Ltboo
AND MIDDLIE           Y_n A         .                                                     JSyrtiad  ASR                           Iraq
EAST                    Ton.to                                                                                                    L onon                                                SLndi  i Ara, b q
Afghanotstn             Mmldiou.
SOUTE ASIA            8hucdn                    P   t
B,ite                   Sri Lanka
I.di4
Cabodi.                                   Ne  h»bridas              China. RaP. Of                          Fiji                       O.rto.n S no-
AST ASI             Indoneti.                                  Papu. Se CN in.          Ciltbrt a    -lande                     Hons iO                    BI.r.ine
EAST ASTA             mao P D.R.                                 Philippin.               I Kor., Rbp. of                                                    Franoh Pol.neai.
Soloron lol-ndu                           Thailand                  MOoS- ua
Viait Nn                                  Tonga                     M.lai                                                             Soie Cledonti
Woaiem S_o.              Tfrt T.rritory of th. Pacifie                                      S.n.a.ore
Ytît                                         oivi                    ntiS..          CIuotiul.             ArgSntin. .ahope
El Saoadon                 ait.^            *nic                 Sarb'do.                   Bermnod
I Manadd                 Cbil               Me.ico               BSiil                      Canal Pone
iTIS AHERICA                                                     Cuy                      COlvabi.          Nitaragea             Fr:nlh iCoin.              Mar tnniq.
AlD CARIBBEAS                                                    Hondur                   Co td Ra          P ra*uay              Coadalope                  Venasueta
Si lncnn                Dvmintce           Paru                 N thortmd  lnti.e          lirfin Inînid  (lJS 3
Drminitoi RP.   St Xltto-N  ite        ann
Ecu-dor           S.t Ltci.            Pu.rto oito
S.rin*-
Trinid.d r. 'obago
Turkhy                                 Cypru                      Chenn l Intande
laS. O lo Mn              renron Islande
EIIoPO                                                                                                                            Sali.                      CObroîror
Portugal                  Mreece
Rtonli                    Creenl.nt
Iogo.ianta         ~spuito
A..-Ili          Fitnl.nd                      Itty                 N-oeoy                 United Stitm
LNDUSTRIALIZED         -tri.            Fr.n..                        Japan               South Afri-
COUNTRIZS             SolgiVC Gonnnny Fad. Rp. of                     Lu..mboorg          Swedon
Canada            !n-la-d                      Nathonlenda          Srtti rl.nd
D...rk            Irmlaod                      NSw Z..Ind           Unit.4 Kingdo
Albanie          rCAiO   D_m. Rp.           USSR
noigorta          MenSaey
CENTRALLY PLANMED    Chin.  PR. of    Kota. De. Rap.  f
EC0N5MIES             Coha              Mongolie
Cfcholtovaki   Pnland
/-  E.ed on 1916 CSP per o- pit  in 1976 US dollar..
7b  S250 or 1.a  par tapit
c  S281-550 par  apite.
d  S551-1135 P,r  apite.
/e  $1136-2500 par nopi.
7If  ovr 52500 par cnpit.



- 22 -
Anniex I 
I)r.FlNlrlo'~ (P qOCIA   INPageTORSof   6
Notas:  A1I ticcurl 5- loint -r  drosn 1on.- or    onru y.~dg.d Ih. naît  stoiai.And raliahla.  it  hod  Iob. n.ted th.t th.y may itot ha tlt.r-
lo't-omlly rsupnrshle  essu..e .f  LI'  i,k  i atndordleed dfelin.ad sonsepta ued by different  oeuntri.e in callîcting ch. date.  The. data are. nncac.tln.ls,
...eful ta deecribe orders or .agnit ude,  ioln.tr.nd..  -d charaCteriua certain nîsior differsan.a  ber.eon countries.
'Vhe adiutod croc  arp     e   f-o -aC1 indiontor -re p.pulo.tis-waighted                   mencrI    sin, encluding the intreno vaine. of th. i.dicator aid the imot
p.puLtetd co:lyin  -ah groua.                                  -"oea   f  onola  m   ho, Idicgtor. d.p.nd. on  -.11.1,41iry of dat. and i t. so  uetter.  Duc to tsk of data,
î:r-mp anr sfor  aptlSurpl..s O<l  Isooee    d Indlcaturu of acc.ee to nater and excrot. disposai, houoing, incem. distributions md p revry are
o mnpLr p,p.,Mmlu tr-wefîghted                                              e.OO  i   eorarmort  slsii   hatral, value..
LANDI AliEA (tho...And sq. ko)                                                             POeulation per hos oitîl bed - total, unyban. &d rural - Populatima (total.
Total - Total surface area .aoprising la.d area and inland valetas.                           tuhon, and rural) divid.d by thair respective neahur of bociltl biaia
Aitricmultural - Nont rasant entioate oh  gricalt.ral aras  and tmporerily                   .-mIl.bl. le, publîn ad private S.sarai mmd specialized hoîpital mad te-
or p. oarnauetlv for cropa. panture..  markset and kitchen Bardane or to                  habilitation conteae.  Hoapitale are establisbomalts pmruaocetly stalfsd by
lie  lailum.                                                                              at leait ane phycicicn.  Eatablishaenta prevld±e8 primcipally cuctodjil
car. e.oct includad.  R,raàl bospitals, hovwavr, umlude  "eath eAnd  edi-
014 PE  CAITAIVS)   GNlP pamaia.twto    tccatnrket prises,                             ca  cnte. o4net p.cuenioc.ly atîffmd by à physiciau  <but by a  edtuaA  su-
ca1c.lated by sacme conversion method au Wsrld Basnk Atlas (1975-77 hasch);               listent, aiurae. miduifo, etc.) sehich cffir in-patimot accouodat±o   n  d
19560, 1971, asd 1977 data.                                                               provid. a limited rasa. ef emdical facilitie...
Admioionspar   u"_bM- Total ns.ber of &dMissions to or dieeh&rooc
~ERitP.iYCOS;!'MPTlON PER OAPITA - Annual consumptlon of coamercisl energy                   from  hospitaie  lviÏdij1b- the cocher ef bads.
(coul~ -a lianItir, petroleu., natural gas ccd hydre-. nucloar asd Smo-
thetuai nlectrju-y) ln hilograna of osai equivalent psr capits.                       HousiRG
Averiag el cié  f hauaehold (nareoose pa rbouts od) -ttal. urbZe   o  roai 
POPUL.A'tIIN ANDi VITAL STATYS1TICS                                                           Ah.. bouc 1ed cosistet  ef a croup ni Indivda            horsar  liv.qaetr
Total popsulathor, mld-yenr (millions) - An sh J.ly 1; If suc availcîls,                     and their ails onale.  A hoarder or lodgeir asy or may sot be tnclud.d ini
uarg   htua  .odyea     I_tince; 1960. 1910, snd 1917 data,                         ch. hous.hold for sthtistical purposs..  Statistical defimitiome of houe.-
Uobas puopulation (p"cuent oh total) - Ratio of urbin to total popalo-                      hold vary.
tio.; dîff.cent detfInitions oh urban cros mail affect csmp.parbility                   Av    g. abr etcrospr rocs - total, urban. and rural - Avariea.om-
oh data anuog conra.                                                                      bar of pcr.. par ronIial   r an. d rural occupied cenv.utioba.l
Populiation descitu                                                                         dnslem.rcsoz'ly                 selig.cexclude sen-peesmoct etruacturea sod
£oc_an. km. - Mid-y.sr population par squars kilomotar <100 hectares)                       unoccupied parcs.
oh total orna.                                                                          Accons ce mlmctricity <Pecrcmtet  dseilium)s  - total, urbai. and trurlI -
pet sq. ion~..arculture lard - Conputnd us aboya for igricu1tura1 land                     Conventienal dIlloSac vlth slamctilty In living quarter. et parrmmt&Se
ooîy.                                                                                     of total, urbmn, and rural dvclliugs rmcpactivmly.
Population axn structura (Partant) - Children (0-14 y'aarc). uorkins-aae
<15-h4 years), and rattred (65 years and over) an parcentaae. of nid-                EDIICATIOi
peso population.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~      ~~Ad^u:etm  enrileu  raties
popuaction  lrosth rate (fartent) - total, and arbas - Comnpousd aonnuePiir  i ol1 -ctati, and female - Total and tmale carollncnt of cll cama
grovth races oh totn1 and urban oid-year populations for 1950-60.                         at the priscry lingi au prcreetaase  of recpectiveiy priamry achool-age
19601-7i, asd 197O-75.                                                                    populations. nocnally iscludes  childres &agd 6-1l yacrc but adjuetmd fer
Coude. unIr   lote ( per thousand> - A .onual Iive bitths per tha ..scnd oh                  different langth. oh priucry educatios; for couatriea vith nieinreal cdu-
mid-year p.p.l.t ion: tan-,ynr aritho,atlsaraa  endirg te 1960 and                        sations anrolleeut ay *xceed 100 percent cisce sou. pupils art below or
1970 and five-yeor sverae  nsdi1sg lu 1975 for o.sercecant eatlante.                      above che officiai school  sec.
Crude d.ath rate (ot hunod    Annsua  des ths par tho   ncd  f nlid                       Secoondry icisool - total, and fasle - Conpstd as abova; cecîodary aduca-
y.ear population; tnms-year arith.etio  aunnn   ndIng ln 1960 and 1970                    tion raquires  st lseat four yeorsoh ifpproved prtacry lnctruction; pro-
snd hlvn-yesr noerage ending 1. 1975 for woetcruent antimite,                             vides gSnsral vccational. or téachcr training instrcr tionse fer pupile
Irons repruductios race - Avaraga n-mber oh dîsghtersa . vssn u111 hait                     usalîly oh 12 co 17  4acrs ni  SA.; correspondance  currase cre igmmrally
is ber noeml neprodsothue period If Ahe e.p.riî..... prenen.t sgt-                         xcluded.
.P cî flc tert llty-rtes; ... ally five-yenr averagas ondlng 10 1960,                  Vocational cnrollosct (percent oh secondery) - Vocational institutiona ia-
i970, ansd 1975.                                                                          clude teebhical. industriel, or nther progrcmc nhich opearte imdapmedatly
Foeilym Pl ...i.a -  Ccnptoro.. an...al (thoona   Annueal  umbebr oh                        or c. dmparement. of sicoodcry Institutions.
soceptors oh birth-cootro1 d~Ievic n odar .ssphoc  oh national. 1fcmIly                puni_t:chmt ratio - prl=ry  cmd sccapd*ry - Total atudents ecrollmd lu
planning progras.'                                                                        priairy and cmceod.ry lmnel  divte   by snabors of caschers in ch. cerre-
F50ily planning - users (par ...t oh msarted vaas) -Parcast.ga of                           sposdiea levais.
airri.d  -on, ni shild-besoina ana (15-44 l'acre) mb  see burch-.ontra1                Ad.ît literacy ract  (percent) - Litsrate adulti (able to e"randcd gritl) au
devises to a1 nmarried nmoneo insanssiage4 grosp.                                         à percestasaet of d toa dult population agmd 13 l'aira and over.
FOOD ANDS NUTRITIONi                                                                     CONSUS42TIOR
Indes of food production pet capit. (1970-100) - Index numbar oh par                     Paesa,naar cars (par thousiod population)   Pcasgseer cire comprise aster cars
capica annal production oh nîl fondcomoditino.                                          asering lise chas might percona; excludei ambulancsc, heirsme ced militcry
par saolta nAupoy of CsirIes loarCnt ahJf renuir .... t) - Coeputsd fron                  v.hicls..
enargy oqlîeto  setfiood nupplies  vuailable in country par capOta                     Radio recelvcrs (par thunaand p,opulation) - Ail typai of racaivora for radia
pet day.  A-ulanble supplies sooprine duneatic p-oduction, importe inca                 broadecste to gSneral public p.r thouseed of populatiouf excludes umlicesnam
emportn, and  hbsoges ho stook.  Net nuppîlie  exclude animal faed. ceeds,              raceiver9si ta sutries and in yecrs nhen regîstration et radie sate ne te
qu.ntities u-ed is food poCos.insg, And lose  i  distribution.  Ra-                     effect; data for rasent l'acre ail  ot ho comparable  insi  meat ceoctrine
qulre  tnc   -ler  atimwated by FAO bac..d us phy.iological  aned  for cor-             aboliîhad llcenseing.
suS actvi^t y and hnalth    nadru eornets  tespelticra. bedy                           TV racalvmrs (Per tho-acn.d Population) - TV c.eialver  for bread ...t te geecrt
-eigbhto  ugo and sou dintributione oh population, and allovnig 10 par-                   public par thousand popslctio., excludes usiicnnd TV racctivers le cous-
cent for cast  at ho..n.hold levaI                                                        tria. ced is years wben registraiton of TV sets xas lu affect.
Per capitn esppily oh prstei. (grase p- day) - Procelu content oh pat                    Nacap&per cruain(p., th .u. nd p.ptlatiop) - Shmns che average circula-
tapita nec supply oh food pet day.  Net oupply oh food le deinad as                       tien .f 'd.Ily  eonacal Internat  cnepapar", d.fined as a pariedicil pub,11-
abo-a  Raquir...ntes  for ail c.nutrias aetabliehed hl' USDA provide foc                  certesn devoted prlmerily te rscording gaulerai sensa.  Ic la coeaidercd te
a eininu   allo ..oc e.o  hi grune of total proteio fer day .nd 20 gr...                  bn 'diilly" if it app.re et liaitr fnr tioa. a vack.
foh anima   od pulse plotein, of  hinA  10 grams nbould ho animal procein.             Cisnma aninsel attandane  par capita ear year - Baaad as th. nusber ef ticket*
Tînsoutoadardia are loyer tAn. chose oh 75 grume ah total protein and                      old duning th. yla,ir.teludingcdIciooto driva-ln ninouasiancd sobile
23 irans Ch u-inai protoin .s as              foraî    uth.i maoId, proposed by           units.
FAO O  rIe Th i,d World Food Sur-.y.
pertaspit. prutolo .Ppolu fran animal anA  pul.e - Prom.is  nspply oh food              EMPLOYIgENT
derivd fron unianls and pu1... On gram. pet day.                                       Total labor forci (thnusind.  - ESonanically asctiva par..... insluding arcmd
cbild (onse  1-1) mortality r....c toa    dl - Asn.. l deotbo par thoso-                     forces and aneplyel'd but ..clmading haucemives, studsnts. etc.  Defini-
ansd in nsn group 1-i yecru, ta childran in tAis nie group.                               tioo  ns varIo.s conotricsarec nlot compa:rable.
Fasala (percent) - Tonal  lî1bor haro  as .  p rsoutsan eh total Ichor force.
HIEALTHI                                                                                  Agriculture (partant) - Lehor force Icn farinig, hor.atry, hueting and fiebing
LîEU  spctoc    t _irttAh oa     Aver.ge nu.eber  h caroo  life                             os parcostage of total labor force.
resoîisu. as birsl; usun11, hisvntaeagotding lu 1960. 1970,                            Induotry (partant) - Labor forte in  foinis, cnstrustien,  inufacturin8 ced
and 19 75.                                                                                elaotricity,  star and gais a. percsetage oh total 1chor force.
lofnt  oraiiy rse(Vp,Lsbuuau.d>  - Annual dootîu of of utsader                    Particliption rata (percent) - total, aile. anand fdae - Total, ails, and
on. year ah ago prr thou..a-d l1c birhts.                                                 hennie labor force ce percentages oh thair respêctive populatieno.
Ac ce.. ta  usutr(eceto   ouo s  - totl. utu.nsd ruraI                                      T h... are   10e. adjustad participation  rares refistingse-o
hunI- ai poupin (tota, 1 r.bs., and rural) math r......ohln  -con    ta                   atructore oh the population. and lnsg tisa trend.
safoc-torsu,Ppy  Iiosludo   tr-ted surface, cacaos oIlna    bat                       Eicon..nic dependancy ratio - Ratle of population under 15 and 65 and ovîr to
-uncutaOlated  -atern-    Sa C  toutOroS pru11tuct    bs-stloi, apringe,                  the lbobr force, in aga grosp oh 15-64 l'este.
andsantury -ell1   n  pocetgo          t heir reeoaia  P,puiatius..
Iasurbaua-   oapublc fuatain ur   -adpont  -oadot mosureINCîOK  DrsTRIBUTION
shc200 rtr        ,     ov  "aY hococierd  s  ng cithi. lrs                         Perc   Tpeo  oîic  incosia (both in cash and kind) received by' ichbsot 5
socao O, ci  ttI    .c. [acrul aruoronoa          .o..cn   -uld                 persnt, rîobeet 20 percent, pooceot 20 percnnt, ced p.oreet 40 percent
f  Icti]rs    o-rb    off  h. hcuaohaId do sot hu-  ta                                  ch  .a..eîalds.
z       hz  d- ic frt5h ami.g th .iy~
POVERTY TARifT G ROUIPS
Oc   aI _jeccos i pŽpŽltPVL.OL9L!bau. aod                       Entinated ib.olute pov-rty incom  lyalvai      5srcaia  - urban ced rural-
ca-ù,:    p-opl,   oti  urînu, a-  rural) tecl     eot                            Abeoluts ponrlty incD.e lavel ia tcht Intlus lavai baboy nhich à minimal
'r s rcrcgoolmsorraP""'tîc   4rpaatcs    toccata                        nutritîsi ..lly  cadqueat  diet plu. o e...tia1 non-feod requireenate in net
~co  rucc r'rOaouco 5   c  auto-aaa OIVcumr.......e....iotedre.tiepovsto insane leva  (0Se par c.plit.  - urban cd rural1
j-o prîcits a-dci.rL:suitce                                              Rala.tîvet pavety income loyal la chat  assa. 1evel lase chas one-thîrd
lo~aatlc Lc pcalcuu    icc.tur,dlscdby uahrc  pasf            n                pet  cplt  p      -soAl i-cm   oh che country'.
-     q--c .uI e   taa'oia    cc   u   ovr  m  to-sel.                          fstl,ad p.pul.ti.. bolama Povartyi .. leon  lov1 (Parcet      ci   e   ua
lc1s  o  orp~ricul_pctu      i'P,iai-  ilcîdal Iy nor   t                             Puruoso offpopuistion larbin and rural) ch   r   ihraelut. p.or" or
o-an  f-~alsgs  .0cuaS   rotoa   usn   r                                  'acîsive por   hichever la areater.
Eis....ic m Social Dace Division
issomi  AnalsîA sud Proajections Osparteant



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$250
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 F                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. CONSTKNT 1972 PRICFS)
US$ Million         %                                      1972   78
Np aet Market Prices                   1,282          100.0                                       3.8
Grogs Damestic Investment                525           25.4
Gross National Savings                   154           12.0
Current Account Balance                 - 34
Exports of Goods  `.FS                   288              *55.3
Imports cf Goods, NFS                    37°                                                      8.2
OUTPtUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (Factor Costa)
US$ million       2
Agriculiyure545           42.5
Mining -              155       12.1
Industry               7?       6.0
Services-/            505      39.4
TOTAL                2Q       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Govermnent
(CFAF billion)               % of CDP
1974/75   1977/78           1975       1978
Current Revenues              22.4        44.5            13.4       15.8
of which uranium revenue   ( 2.5)       (13.1)          ( 1.5)    ( 4.6)
Current Expenditures          17.5        30.4            10.5       lo.8
Current Balance                4.9        14.1             2.9        5.0
Capital Expenditure             1.9       14.1             1.1        5.0
External Assistance
Overall Balance              + 3.0         0               1.8         O
M.ONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                                                                                      /3
1971     1972      1973     1974      1975      1976     1977      1978 -
(CFAF billion at end-of year)
Money and Quasi Money                  12.1      12.9     15.5      20.3     22.3      29.2      37.6     46.5
Bank credit to Public Sector           -2.3      -3.5     -3.4      -7.2    -11.5    -12.-3    -16.4    -10.2
Bank credit to Private Sector           9.7      10.7     12.5      21.0     28.5      28.6      32.7     38.7
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970 =100)       104.2    114.4    127,8    132.1    144.1    178.1    219.2    250.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      .        9.8     11.7       3.4      9.1      23.6      23.o     11.4
Bank credit to Public Sector             .         .         .        .         .
Bank credit to Private Sector            .       10.3     16.8      68.o     35.7       0.4      14.3     18.4
Staff estimates.
Not available.
Not applicable.
1/ Mostly uranium mining.
2/ including Government and duties and taxes on imports.
3/ As of May, 1978.
February 5, 1979



- 24 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
COUn"RY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYNENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(in millions of current US$)
SALALCE _0F PAYMENTS                      1975*      1978 *          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS :  (Annual Awrgep: 1975-78)
Exports of Goods, NFS                    167.8       288.2                            US$ Million                2
Imports of Gooda  NFS                    226.5       369.6
Resource Cap (deficit: -)                -58.7       -81.4           Livestock           29.2                   16.8
Uranium            117.1                  67.4
intereSt Payments (net)                  -10.7       -15.0           Groundnuts           8.2                   4.7
ilorkers' Remittances                    -18.7       -25.0           All other           19.3                   11.1
Other Factor Payrents <net)                3.0          ,             TOTAL             173.8                  100.0
Net Transfers                             77.1        36.3
Balance on Current Accounts              : 8.0      - 85.2           EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976
Direct Foreign Investment (net)           15.8        38 4           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            284.o
Net MIT Borrowings                        17.o        30o0           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding end                    135.1
Disbursements                      (18 8)       ( .)            disbursed
Repayment                          ( 1.8)       ( *)
1tlier items I/              -19,8                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO  FOR 1976
other items1'                            -19,8      ____
Change in Reserves (erd year)              5,0      -16.8            Public Debt, incl  guaranteed
Foreign Reserves (end year)               51,4       87.6            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding ard disbursed           5.4S
7. of importa                        12.8       15.o            IBRD/IDA LENDING. December 31. 1978
RATE OF EXCHANCE                                                     Outstnding and disbursed                  34.6
Undiabursed                               43.3
1971:   uS$1.Co = CFAF 277 03                                    Outstanding incl. undiabursed              77.90
1972:   US$1.00 - CFAF 252.21
1973:   uS$1 00 = CFAF 222.70
1974:   US$1.0O = CFAF 240 50
1975:   US$1.00 =  CFAF 214.32
1976:   US$1.Qo =  CFAF 245.00
1977:   USSI.CO -  CFAF 245 00
1978:   us$1 oo = CFAF 220,00
1/ 7-.luding errors and ommissions.
2, Recorded experts only.
staff estimates.
,not av-ilable.
not applicable.
February 5,1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at December 31, 1978)
Credit                                                              US$ million
Number   Year   Borrower             Purpose                Amount (less cancellation) /1
IDA      Undisbursed
Seven credits fully disbursed                                20.0
441     1973   Republic of Niger   Drought Relief            2.0         0.4
608     1975   Republic of Niger   Maradi Rural
Development          10.7         4.6
612     1976   Republic of Niger   Niger Third Highway   15.6            9.7
634     1976   Republic of Niger   Telecommunications
Project               5.2         4.1
800     1978   Republie of Niger   Forestry Project          4.5         4.5
809     1978   Republic of Niger   Employment Creation
Project               5.0         5.0
851 /2  1978   Republic of Niger   Irrigation               15.0        15.0
Total                                              78.0         43.3
of which has been repaid                          0.1
Total now outstanding and held by IDA              77.9
Total undisbursed                                              43.3
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Signed but not effective.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at December 31, 1978)
Nil.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
Credit 441 - Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
This credit aims at helping the population in drought-affected areas
to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improvement of
their farms and herds. The project is nearing satisfactory completion. Out
of the seven sub-projects, six (training scheme, construction of rural ware-
houses, spot repairs of a feeder road, engineering studies of an irrigation
project, construction of erosion control facilities and protection of gum tree
natural groves) are completed. Construction of the last one (construction and
operation of calf feeding units) is completed, but it is not expected to be
fully operational until mid-1979.
Credit 608 - Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 Million;
Credit of February 6, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project includes provision of production packages to farmers
in 15 Associations Locales de Cooperatives; strengthening of cooperative in-
stitutions, expansion of training programs, study of optimum means to develop
the irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi, construction of 80 km of
roads, planting of 500 ha of fuelwood plantations and improvement of livestock
services. The second year of project implementation shows that reasonable
managerial and technical progress has been achieved. Most of the project sub-
components are progressing satisfactorily. The training of extension staff
and young farmers is successful and emphasis should now be put on their
follow-up at village level. The irrigation program is expected to start in
mid 1979 and will be used as a test for a possible second phase project which
would include a larger irrigation component.
Credit 612 - Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project aims at assisting Government with the implementation of
a four-year program of periodic maintenance, including procurement of equip-
ment and training of specialized public work staff, construction and improve-
ment of the Zinder-Nigerian border road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian
border road (40 km). The project is about one year behind schedule due to
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX Il
Page 3 of 4 pages
delays in signature and effectiveness of the co-financiers' loan agreement.
The first three members of the consultant team for technical assistance and
training have arrived in the field and three more are due in October 1979.
Orders for road maintenance equipment were placed in July and delivery is
expected in early 1979. The contract for the study of the domestic construc-
tion industry is being negotiated. Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border
road was completed ahead of schedule and that of the Zinder-Nigerian border
road is expected to be completed by June 1979.
Credit 634 - Telecommunications Project; US$5.2 Million; Credit of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Project implementation
is still at the procurement stage. Bid evaluation and award recommendations
for the main project components have been reviewed and approved by the Asso-
ciation. On the basis of the bid prices it appears that the project has
experienced a 24 percent cost overrun. Progress has been made in carrying
out the institution building component of the project.
Credit 800 - Forestry Project; US$4.5 million; Credit of June 7, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: February 7, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
This project will assist Government in its efforts to establish 400
ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha of pilot rainfed tree plantations;
improve the rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department; finance a
training program in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit. A project unit will be established within the
Forestry Department to assist in coordinating and monitoring the various
project activities, plan rural forestry programs and prepare a second phase
suitable for Bank support.
Credit 809 - Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project aims at assisting Governmnent in the promotion of more
labor intensive employment creation in Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
d'Administration. By providing financial and technical assistance for the
creation of OPEN, a new agency which will provide technical assistance and
training for local enterpreneurs and by assisting the Artisans Center to
improve the producitivity and employment of artisans affiliated with the
Center.
Credit 851 - Irrigation Project; US$15.0 Million; Credit of February 15,
1979; Projected Effectiveness Date: May 15, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims to assist the Government in expanding cereal and
vegetable production along the Niger River through development of a 1,550 ha
polder; in provision of agricultural development services on neighbouring
irrigation schemes (1,215 ha) and dryland farming plots (9,000 ha); and in
creating the necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its
irrigation development program through establishment of a national agency
(ONAHA) which would integrate and strengthen the activities of construction
and management of the irrigation schemes. The project will also finance
the preparation of a feasibility study for a nearby polder, as well as the
services of a financial coordinator to be attached to the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist in accounting and financial management of the various
IDA-financed agricultural projects in Niger.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  2 years
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:  Consultants/Gov't/RMWA
(c)  Date of the first presentation to the Bank:  November 1976
Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
November 1976
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 18, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations:  January 6, 1978
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  May 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Frequent supervision missions (every 6 months) are planned for the
first few years.
Section III - Special Conditions
(i)  All antiparaistic drugs, vitamins and feed supplements would
be sold at full-cost prices throughout the project area for
the duration of the project (para. 36(a));
(ii) Government would make explicit budgetary provision for
purchases of vaccines against contagious cattle diseases
throughout the project area for the duration of the proj-
ect (para. 36(a));
(iii) The Project Unit will maintain for the purchase of drugs
food stocks and human health equipment revolving funds
financed by the proceeds of sales of these goods. Govern-
ment will provide additional funds if and when necessary
(para. 36(a));
(iv) The Government will take all legislative and administra-
tive steps necessary to authorize the establishment of
associations of pastoralists (para. 36(b));
(v)  the final design and site selection of each pastoral
center would be subject to the Association's approval
(para. 36(b));



- 30 -                   ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(vi)  The project would provide new pastoral wells only where
an association of pastoralists had been constituted
in an identified pastoral unit with sufficient grazing
resources and that association had undertaken to pro-
vide all unskilled labor, in kind or in cash, required
for well-digging (para. 36(c));
(vii)  conditions of effectiveness include:
(a)  appointment of the Project Manager and Chiefs of
the Pastoral Activities Section and the Commercial
and Administrative Section (para. 37); and
(b) opening of the project account with an initial
deposit of CFAF 150 million (para. 41).



IBRD 13722
do (              3~~~~~ArIit                                    lO,¶5                                140'                                                                                                           JUIY 1978
(                                                                       ----------                              ~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK PROJECT
A   G   A   D   E  Z
N                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEGAL PASTORAL ZONE
NEVETERINARV POSTO
CE5R  LOCATI1ON S TC S E DSETE RRI N ES  N TASE PASTO RA L ZON E
MAIN M ARKLE TS
t  OR    tRR      ¶00 l     oR                                SECONDARYMARKETS
SM  STOCK ROUTES
TARtES ROADS
----LATERITE ROADS
I                ----~~~~~~TRACKS
âk           é~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' AIRPORTO
®PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
'~k  IC   H   A   D                    O    CE   ON
--RIVERS
U  %   ff                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL ROUJNSARIES
T,k. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
g.                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALGERIA
0                                                                                                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AURITANIA  -    
NE              Mc A L I
Nb     ES/ 
1-V-    UPPER'. -
'7             OOINEA ~~~~   p  VOLTA   , 
Rococo,  ¶0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  ¶40                  Ndjamoiia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GJN
90,1



