CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 885 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 27, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 885 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to Minister of
Planning of the Borrower on April 10, 1978 the Association granted
an advance to the Borrower totalling $80,000 for the preparation
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advance the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the provinces of Maradi, Zinder and
Diffa;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) "Project Account" means the account referred tp in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdiawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿- 3 -
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1989, and ending January 1, 2029,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and (%le-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical
and sociological practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall establish the Project Unit within the Livestock Department
of its Ministry of Rural Development, with such staff and duties
as are described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The Chief of the
Pastoral Activities Section and the Chief of the Commercial and
Administrative Sections of the Project Unit shall be employed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(c) The Borrower shall open and maintain, in the name of the
Project Unit, a special Project Account in the Development Bank of
the Republic of Niger at Zinder and shall replenish such Account
quarterly with such amounts as shall be necessary to meet expen-
ditures on the Project during the following quarter.


﻿Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in conducting
large-scale smallstock vaccine tests, identifying pastoral units,
defining and reviewing the effectiveness of training methods,
monitoring of animal health and productivity activities,, and
preparing a follow-up project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association 's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as ti:
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) make explicit budgetary provisions for the purchase of
vaccines against rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia,
pasteurellosis, anthrax and blackleg, for use throughout the
Project Area during the carrying out of the Project;
(b) ensure that tests of new vaccines for smallstock be
approved by the Association; and
(c) cause anti-parasite drugs, vitamins and feed supplements
to be sold throughout the Project Area at prices sufficient to
cover their costs of purchase, delivery and distribution.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1979 take all legis-
lative and administrative steps necessary to authorize the estab-
lishment of associations of pastoralists pursuant to authorized
charters, a model of which shall have been approved by the Bor-
rower and the Association, setting forth their rights and obliga-
tions, including exclusive rights to the use of watering points.
Section 3.07. (a) The final design of each pastoral center to
be established under Part B of the Project and the selection of
its site, shall be approved by the Association prior to the
commencement of any work thereon.
(b) Except with the prior approval of the Association, no
pastoral center shall be established under Part B of the Project
until there exists duly constituted associations of pastoralists
to be served by such center.
Section 3.08. No new wells shall be financed under Part C of
the Project unless a duly constituted association of pastoralists
in an identified pastoral unit with sufficient grazing resources


﻿- 6 -
has undertaken to provide all the necessary unskilled labor for
the digging of the well.
Section 3.09. The final designs for the markets at ZindeF and
Maradi to be constructed under Part E of the Project, shall be
furnished to the Association for its approval prior to the com-
mencement of construction thereon.
Section 3.10. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause its National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA)
to charge interest on its loans for cattle and sheep fattening
calculated over the exact term of the loan.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the Director of the
Livestock Department, by July 31 of each year, to furnish to the
Association for its approval the proposed work program and budget
for the carrying out of the Project for the coming fiscal year.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause the Manager of the
Project Unit to establish by September 30, 1979 a reporting system
and, by March 31, 1980, a Project monitoring system, each satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall ensure that its Rural
Engineering Department provide the Project Unit with all necessary
support services for defining specifications and conducting
appropriate site surveys.
Section 3.14. In carrying out the program of credits compris-
ing Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure (a) that the
members of associations of pastoralists to receive the credits are
selected by provincial credit approval committees composed of a
representative of the Project Unit, the Provincial Livestock
Officer concerned and the Credit Officer of the Project Unit from
nominees of such associations;
(b) that credits for backgrounding cover 80% of the purchase
price of up to 10 immature males, and be repayable within 24
months at 9.5% per year interest plus the premium for the mortal-
ity guarantee fund, and would be fully guaranteed in writing by
the nominating association; ani
(c) that credits for constituting optimum breeding herds be
made in kind and be repayable at zero interest over seven years
including a one-year grace period; such credits shall be made only


﻿-7-
to destitute members of associations of pastoralists and would be
fully guaranteed by the nominating association through a written
commitment supported by a 10% cash deposit.
Section 3.15. For the purpose of providing under Parts A and
C of the Project veterinary supplies, food stocks and human
health equipment, the Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to
maintain for the purchase of such goods revolving funds comprising
the proceeds of the sales thereof and such additional funds as
the Borrower shall furnish as and when necessary for such
purchases.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit:
(a) to maintain records, including the Project Account, adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures for the Project; (b) to retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures for the Project on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures; and (c) to enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit
to:
(a) have its accounts, including the Project Account, and
financial statements (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors: (A) on the
Project Account referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agree-
ment; and (B) in respect of the expenditures and records referred


﻿- 8 -
to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Section, as to whether the proceeds
of the Credit made available to the Project Unit -.nd withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures have been used to make payments for goods receiveq, or
works or services performed, and that such goods, works and
services were eligible for financing under this Agreement and were
used in the carrying out of the Projecc; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Project
Unit and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has deposited an initial amount of CFAF 150
million in the Project Account; and
(b) the Manager of the Project Unit and the Chiefs of the
Pastoral Activities and Commercial and Administrative Sections of
the Project Unit have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date July 27, 1979, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey,
Niger
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIPLAN                           5230 CND
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By Is/ Andre Joseph Wright
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                3,800,000         100%
(2) Vehicles and               1,300,000         100%
equipment
(3) Incremental                1,300,000         100%
stocks of drugs,
feed supplements,
human health
supplies, new
vaccines, food
(4) Credits for cattle           450,000         100% of amounts
breeding and back-                           disbursed
grounding
(5) Consultants'               1,070,000         100%
services and
expatriate staff
(6) Salaries of local          1,000,000          65%
Project staff
(7) Operating costs            1,200,000         65%
of Project Unit
(except salaries)


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8) Refunding of                   80,000        Amount outstand-
Project Prepara-                             ing at Effective
tion Advance                                Date
(9) Unallocated                 1,800,000
TOTAL      12,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if th- amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insuffi-ient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in tha' Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proreeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associ-
ation under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase livestock productivity
both in the pastoral and cropping zones, to obtain pastoralists'
participation in efforts to improve management of their animal,
water and pasture resources, to broaden the field of competence of
the Livestock Department and to increase and improve cattle and
sheep fattening by smallholders in the cropping zone.
The Project, to be implemented in the Project Area over five
years, includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Procurement and distribution of drugs, feed supplements
and new vaccines;
Part B:   Delineation of pastoral units based on traditional
land-use patterns; formation and recognition of associ-
ations of pastoralists; and construction and operation
of five pastoral centers which would each serve several
associations of pastoralists;
Part C:   Provision of services to associations of pastoralists,
including animal health supplies and advice on animal
husbandry and range-management techniques; selective
extension of stock-watering points; in the five pastoral
centers the services also include the provision of
food stocks, and, through staff of the Ministry of
Health stationed at the pastoral centers, training
the supply of equipment for human health.
Part D:   Provision of credits for; (1) backgrounding of immature
steers; and (2) constituting breeding herds;
Part E:   Extension of the existing animal health and marketing
infrastructure by; (1) construction of offices for the
Project Unit at Zinder and for the Livestock Department
at Diffa, of 11 veterinary posts and of 20 vaccination
yards; (2) improvements to two main, six secondary and
13 small markets; (3) construction of two small improved
abbattoirs; (4) marking out of seven stock routes; and
(5) rehabilitation of slaughter slabs;
Part F:   Provision of credits for, and advice on, cattle and
sheep fattening by smallholders;


﻿- 14 -
Part G:   Procurement of vehicles and equipment for the Livestock
Department; and
Part H:   Preparation of future livestock project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding; (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts estimated to value less than $50,000 equivalent may
be procured on the basis of com.)etitive bidding advertised locally
following applicable local procedures.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Contracts estimated to value less than $10,000 equivalent may
be negotiated following solicitation of quotations.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the Project Unit, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with its recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿- 17 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first apnlication for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
cont:act, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   The wells included in Part C of the Project will be construc-
ted by the Office des Eaux du Sous-sol pursuant to a contract
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
2.   Vaccines will be supplied by the Livestock Laboratory of the
National Agricultural Research Institute.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Responsibilities and Qualifications
of Key Personnel
1.   Project Manager
1.1 The Project Manager would be responsible for the technical,
financial and economic success of the Project. He wojld be speci-
fically responsible for:
(a) preparing annual work programs and budgets;
(b) establishing a reporting system and preparing periodic
and annual progress reports;
(c) obtaining the issuance of legal instruments governing
the rights and obligations of associations of pastoral-
ists;
(d) coordinating the participation of the Ministry of
Health, the National Food Marketing Agency (OPVN), the
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA), the National
Cooperative and Credit Organization (UNCC), the Ground-
water Development Agency (OFEDES), and the Community
Development Department in Project activities, through
his attendance as a full member of the three Provincial
Technical Committees;
(e) coordinating Project activities with other interventions
in the livestock sector in or of relevance to the
project area;
(f) preparing a follow-up livestock project.
1.2 The qualifications and experience of the Project Manager
would be:
(a) a postgraduate degree (or its equivalent), preferably
in agriculture or veterinary science;
(b) actual experience or an indicated potential as a leader
able to coordinate the activities of a team and/or
different agencies;


﻿- 19 -
(c) field experience in working with pastoral peoples
indicating a capacity for gaining their confidence;
(d) general management skills including preferably some
familiarity with credit in the rural sector.
2.   Chief of the Animal Husbandry Section
2.1 Under the direction of the Project Manager, he would be
responsible for:
(a) promoting increased use of drugs and feed supplements,
arranging for training of paraveterinary workers to be
undertaken by Livestock Department staff, and teaching
staff how to give that training, and reviewing the
effectiveness of trainees;
(b) improving the quality of advice given to cattle fat-
teners and initiating the provision of credit and sound
advice to sheep fatteners;
(c) improving the effectiveness of vaccination campaigns
through provision of equipment in good working order and
through better communication between staff and livestock
producers;
(d) designing, monitoring and improving the animal husbandry
and range management advice to be given to all associa-
tions of pastoralists;
(e) improving the quality of market statistics and supervis-
ing data-gathering for all project studies.
2.2 The qualifications and experience of the Animal Husbandry
Section Chief would be:
(a) a postgraduate degree (or its equivalent), preferably
in animal production;
(b) field experience in working with pastoral and sedentary
peoples, preferably in the Project Area, indicating a
capacity for gaining their confidence;
(c) willingness to work in the field away from Project
headquarters for an average of 15 days per month;


﻿- 20 -
(d) some familiarity with range management theory and
practice;
(e) proven capability to guide and motivate lower-Level
staff.
3.   Chief of the Pastoral Activities Section
3.1 Under the direction of the Project Manager, he would be
responsible for:
(a) identifying pastoral units, including sites for new
wells, and engaging consultants to assist him in that
task;
(b) constituting associations of pastoralists and training
Livestock Department staff in that task;
(c) selecting sites for pastoral centers and supervising
the operation of such centers;
(d) undertaking an ethnoveterinary inventory and preparing
a manual for use in training paraveterinary workers;
(e) supervising the setting up and operation of credit
schemes for breeding and backgrounding.
3.2 The qualifications and experience of the Pastoral Activities
Sector Chief would be:
(a) an appropriate university degree (or its equivalent);
(b) field experience in working with pastoral peoples,
preferably in the project area, indicating a capacity
for gaining their confidence;
(c) willingness to work in the field away from Project
headquarters for an average of 15 days per month;
(d) a good knowledge of French and at least one local
language.


﻿- 21 -
4.   Credit Officer
4.1 Under the direction of the Chief of the Pastoral Activities
Section, he would be responsible for:
(a) explaining to associations of pastoralists the two
new forms of credit and the guarantees to be put up;
(b) designing credit processing forms, the accounting
systems and repayment mechanisms;
(c) preparing illustrative budgets for potential loan
recipients;
(d) supervising the acquisition and marking of animals
acquired on credit;
(e) setting up and servicing, as secretary and full member,
each provincial loan approval committee.
4.2 The qualifications and experience of the credit officer would
be:
(a) actual experience or an indicated potential as an
innovator;
(b) field experience in working with pastoral people,
preferably in the project area, indicating a capacity
for gaining their confidence;
(c) willingness to work in the field away from Project
headquarters for an average of 15 days per month;
(d) actual experience in operating a credit scheme in
the rural sector.
5.   Chief of the Commercial and Administrative Section
5.1 Under the direction of the Project Manager, he would be
responsible for:
(a) setting up detailed accounts and a consolidated project
account and control of bookkeeping;


﻿- 22 -
(b) preparing detailed annual budgets and quarterly cash
flow projections;
(c) designing and implementing sound internal and managpment
controls particularly with regard to equipment mainte-
nance, stocks and receipts, and vehicle operating costs;
(d) processing of tender documents and other procurement
papers;
(e) preparing applications for withdrawal from the Credit
Account;
(f) assisting the credit officer in setting up accounting
procedures for the new forms of credit;
(g) follow-up of auditors' recommendations.
5.2 The qualifications and experience of the Commercial and
Administrative Section Chief would be:
(a) a university degree (or its equivalent) or membership
in a recognized professional body evidencing formal
knowledge of modern accounting theory and practice in
accordance with generally accepted international stan-
dards;
(b) five years professional experience, preferably in
a country using the OCAM or French accounting plans and
some of which in a commercial enterprise;
(c) actual experience with procurement, preferably with
civil works as well as supplies;
(d) a good knowledge of French.


