Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4746-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second National Railways Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 18, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER  4746-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the following modification (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  the text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is 
deleted in its entirety. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
Page  4
-
2
-
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, all such Displaced Persons; 
 
(b) 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated January 2004 
and duly adopted by the Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part A of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, 
as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
23, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(e) 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan for the Provinces of Hunan, 
Jiangxi and Zhejiang in respect of Part A of the Project, duly adopted by the Borrower 
and dated May, 2004, which plan sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(f) 
“RAP Arrangements” means the arrangements entered into between the 
Ministry of Railways and each of the Provinces of Hunan, Jiangxi and Zhejiang, for the 
purpose of causing the RAP to be carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and  
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Ministry of Railways. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
million Dollars ($200,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
Page  6
-
4
-
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Railways with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and railways practices, and social and environmental standards, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 (b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods a
nd
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  9
-
7
-
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the RAP Arrangements 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to affect materially and 
adversely the implementation of the RAP in the respective Provinces of Hunan, Jiangxi 
and Zhejiang. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in Section 
5.01 shall occur. 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that each of the RAP Arrangements has 
been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Provinces of Hunan, Jiangxi and 
Zhejiang, respectively, and are legally binding on the Borrower and said Provinces in 
accordance with their respective terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Sanlihe 
 Beijing 
100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN  
(86-10) 
6855-1125 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By: /s/ Zou Jiayi 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
195,900,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 75% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) Consultants' 
2,100,000 
 
91% 
 services 
 
(3) 
Front-end fee 
2,000,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
_________ Agreement 
 
TOTAL 200,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
Page  13
-
11
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures which are not “foreign 
expenditures”.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $20,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
October 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) for services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to (i) improve the railway 
services provided to customers of the Zhe-Gan railway line, and (ii) upgrade the quality 
of track maintenance on heavily used portions of the railway network. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Raising Speeds on the Zhe-Gan Railway Line
1. 
Upgrading of the railway line between the city of Hangzhou in Zhejiang Province 
and the city of Zhuzhou in Hunan Province to allow for higher operating speed of trains, 
including provision of equipment for overhead catenary, equipment for traction 
substations, power supply equipment for electrification, and signaling and 
telecommunications equipment. 
2. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project. 
 
Part B:
Modernizing Track Maintenance Technology
Modernization of the track maintenance technology for the replacement of worn 
rail and switches, the renewal of ballast and other maintenance tasks on heavy traffic 
railway lines, including provision of highly mechanized high-capacity equipment and 
rail-based mobile cranes. 
 
Part C:
Strengthening the Ministry of Railways’ Planning, Management and Technology 
Capacity
Carrying out of studies for the improvement of business processes. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2007. 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)
*
March 15, 2010 
5,905,000 
September 15, 2010 
5,950,000 
March 15, 2011 
6,000,000 
September 15, 2011 
6,050,000  
 
March 15, 2012 
6,100,000 
September 15, 2012 
6,150,000 
March 15, 2013 
6,200,000 
September 15, 2013 
 
6,250,000 
March 15, 2014 
6,305,000 
September 15, 2014 
6,355,000 
March 15, 2015 
6,410,000 
September 15, 2015 
6,460,000  
 
March 15, 2016 
6,515,000 
September 15, 2016 
6,570,000 
March 15, 2017 
6,625,000 
September 15, 2017 
 
6,675,000 
March 15, 2018 
6,730,000 
September 15, 2018 
6,790,000 
March 15, 2019 
6,845,000 
September 15, 2019 
6,900,000  
 
March 15, 2020 
6,955,000 
September 15, 2020 
7,015,000 
March 15, 2021 
7,070,000 
September 15, 2021 
 
7,130,000 
March 15, 2022 
7,190,000 
September 15, 2022 
 
7,250,000 
March 15, 2023 
7,310,000 
September 15, 2023 
 
7,370,000 
March 15, 2024 
7,430,000 
September 15, 2024 
 
7,495,000 
__________________________________  
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other t
han consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Borrower employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
Page  17
-
15
-
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
Shopping
:
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of 
Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for goods and 
services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more.  In addition, the record of justification referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
 
(b) 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, the EMP, the RAP and the RAP 
Arrangements, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
furnish, or cause to be furnished, any proposed revision to the EMP or 
the RAP or the RAP Arrangements referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above to the Bank for 
its prior approval. 
2. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, through its Ministry of 
Railways, by not later than August 15, 2006, enter into agreements with power suppliers 
or relevant Provinces, to ensure adequate electric power supply for the electric traction on 
the Zhe-Gan railway line. 
3. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through its Ministry of 
Railways, exchange views with the Bank on the acquisition and utilization of the electric 
multiple unit trains, and shall, by February 15, 2005, furnish to the Bank, a timetable for 
the acquisition and utilization of such trains. 
 
4. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through its Ministry of 
Railways, not later than August 15, 2006, furnish to the Bank the rules of operation for 
the upgraded Zhe-Gan railway line. 
5. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, through its Ministry of 
Railways: 
(a) 
carry out the studies in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank; 
(b) 
not later than February 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 2005, 
furnish to the Bank for comments the recommendations of the studies carried out in the 
preceding year; 
Page  19
-
17
-
(c) 
not later than August 15 in each year, commencing August 15, 2005, 
prepare action plans for the implementation of the recommendations of the studies carried 
out in the preceding year, taking into account the comments of the Bank on such 
recommendations, if any; and  
(d) 
promptly thereafter, carry out each of such action plans. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Railways: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15 and August 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 
2005, and until completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester 
preceding the date of each said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the calendar semester following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 1 and October 1 in each year, 
commencing April 1, 2005, and until completion of the Project, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of each of the said reports and the B
ank’s views on the matter. 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $20,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $12,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall   
 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special   
 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  21
-
19
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  22
-
20
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
