Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
BOARD APPROVAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB782 
Project Name 
Second National Railways Project  
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Railways (100%) 
Project ID 
P075602 
Borrower 
P.R. CHINA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Railways,  
Foreign Capital & Technical Import Center 
10 Fuxing Road, Beijing, China 100844 
Tel: 86-10-5184-1895  
Fax: 86-10-5184-1845 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
Date PID Updated 
June 11, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 26, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 24, 2004 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The primary focus of the Government as well as of the Bank’s assistance in the past twenty years 
has been on capital investment to modernize, upgrade and expand all transport modes.  Though 
much progress has been made, bottlenecks remain. Capital investments to alleviate these 
bottlenecks continue to be the focus of both Government and Bank efforts. 
 
Increasingly, to some degree influenced by the Bank’s encouragement, there is a growing 
appreciation within the Government that the institutional structure for infrastructure development 
and operation needs to be modified, to serve the rapidly evolving needs of the emerging market-
driven Chinese economy.  There is a full appreciation of the benefits of institutional reforms 
leading to a competitive market-based system that would support sustainable growth in the 
quality and quantity of the infrastructure stock and the economy in general.  Actual 
implementation of reform is taking place at a deliberate and cautious pace which tries to balance 
the risks and complexity of reforms against the dangers of loss of rail market share if it does not 
keep pace with changes in other transport modes. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objectives are: 
 
(a) to improve  the railway services provided to customers of the ‘Zhe-Gan’ railway line;  
and  
Page  2
2
(b) to upgrade the quality of track maintenance on heavily used portions of China Railw
ays’ 
network. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rail system in China is essential to the continuing economic development of China and as a 
key transportation choice for goods and passengers.  Over the past two decades China Railways 
have been conspicuously successful in expanding their network and serving growing volumes of 
business, both freight and passengers.  CR has been gradually shifting from the management 
habits of a national monopoly toward those of a modern transport enterprise competing for 
business with other modes of transport that are also modernizing and growing rapidly.  In recent 
years CR has generated sufficient revenues to cover not only all operating expenditures but also 
a
substantial part of its large investment program.  This sets China Railways apart from every 
other railway to which the Bank lends. 
 
The Chinese government wants the railway to be largely self-sufficient in financing its 
expansion.  Budget financing is limited to contributions towards extension of the network to 
open up western regions.  The Bank supports this policy of substantial financial self-sufficiency.  
The Government also wants to encourage the railway to continue adapting to the challenges of 
operating in a competitive transport market, and looks to the Bank to advise –on the strength of 
its experience with railways around the world-- on the gradual change process that this requires.  
For its part, MOR wishes to continue borrowing from the World Bank and the Asian 
Development Bank because it will only succeed in financing its very large investment program 
for the coming decade by expanding its sources of financing, and it is judicious to combine 
borrowing from both domestic and international banks.  CR also looks to the international banks 
to facilitate its access to international technology and best practice in planning and management 
approaches.  The World Bank’s perspective is that its international experience does indeed equip 
it to add value regarding the options and process for changing to a market-friendly service 
provider, and CR’s scale of operations is so large that its performance can have far-reaching 
impacts on the Chinese economy. 
 
4. Description 
 
(i)  Raising speeds on the Zhe-Gan Line 
A
key east-west link in the Chinese rail network is the line between Hangzhou in Zhejiang 
province near Shanghai and Zhuzhou in the center of China in Hunan province.  This line, 
known as Zhe-Gan, is the only existing major east-west link connecting the coastal regions in the 
Yangtze River Delta in the East to the industrial region in the center of China and through to 
Chongqing and Chengdu in the West and Kunming in the Southwest.  Existing east-west links 
are all operating at or near capacity.  Passenger traffic on the Zhe-Gan line exceeds 20 million 
passengers per year on most sections and freight traffic ranges between 33 and 57 million tons.  
Coal, steel, mineral ores and building materials are the main commodities carried (more than 
two-thirds of total tonnage). 
 
The Zhe-Gan line is an integral part of the China Railways 2003-2007 Development Plan that 
calls for raising the speeds and improving the quality of passenger services on the major railway 
Page  3
3
corridors nationwide.  Under this plan the maximum operating speed of express passenger trains 
is to be raised to 200 km/h.  The Zhe-Gan line is 942-km long, double track, diesel-powered, and 
allows a maximum speed of 120 km/h.  MOR plans to install new signaling, realign sharp curves 
and carry out other civil works needed to permit higher speeds.  The track is to be upgraded on 
many short sections totaling about half of the track length.   The line will also be electrified and 
fenced throughout.  Once it is upgraded, the 200 km/h express trains will be operated by electric 
multiple units, while slower passenger and freight trains will be operated with electric 
locomotives. 
 
The civil works for speed-raising began in early 2004 and are to be completed by September 
2005.  The electrification will overlap by several months and be completed by August 2006;  
after a period of testing the new electrified services will begin early in 2007.   
 
End-to-end trip times will be cut by up to 3-4 hours.  The new signaling and communications 
equipment will allow design headway between trains to be reduced from the current 8 minutes to 
7
minutes, increasing the line capacity by 13%.  Electrification will allow the maximum weight 
of freight trains to be raised from 3,300 tons to 4,000 tons. 
 
The total cost of speed-raising and electrification is estimated at RMB 14.2 billion (US$1.73 
billion).  This includes RMB 2.9 billion ($346 million) for electrification and improvements to 
signaling and communication systems.  The loan will finance equipment for overhead catenary, 
traction substations and power supply for electrification at an estimated cost of $82 million, as 
well as signaling and telecommunications equipment estimated at $39 million. 
 
(ii) Modernizing track maintenance technology 
MOR also wishes to acquire highly mechanized, high-capacity equipment for replacing worn rail 
and switches, renewing ballast, and other maintenance tasks on heavy-traffic lines.  Such 
technology is more cost-effective than traditional labor-intensive maintenance practices, as the 
track needs to be closed to traffic for shorter periods and the quality of finish is far better.  
Consistent, high-quality and frequent maintenance directly improves passenger safety.  MOR 
introduced this technology in the late 1990s and wishes to expand its pool of such equipment by 
acquiring equipment estimated at $60 million. 
 
At present M
OR’s 19 track maintenance depots are part of the 14 Railway Administrations.  
MOR anticipates that eventually the heavy track maintenance equipment will be rolled out to 
cover MOR’s entire territory and the track maintenance depots (TMDs) will become independent 
entities, subsidiaries of a single group company.  TMDs at present cover about 40,000 track-km.  
With additional capacity they will, by 2005, cover a total of 67,000 track-km of the system, 
about half the total track-km.  The intention is that TMDs should service all main trunk lines and 
all high-density main routes that have traffic volumes greater than 25 million tons per year. 
 
MOR also wishes to acquire rail-based mobile cranes that can be deployed rapidly to sites of 
accidents and derailments, to enhance its capacity to clear accidents and restore normal 
operations quickly on heavy-traffic lines.  Their cost is estimated at $15 million. 
 
Page  4
4
(iii) Advisory services to strengthen MOR’s planning, management and technology 
capacity 
MOR will hire consultants to analyze, and make recommendations on, various issues for 
improving business processes.  MOR has proposed the following topics:   
·
Traffic forecasting methods 
·
Policy framework for resettlement and environmental protection 
·
Planning and equipment standards for electrified network 
·
Management of construction supervision 
 
MOR will indicate additional topics for technical assistance at a later date.  The estimated total 
cost of advisory services is $2.3 million. 
 
5. Financing 
Source
:
($m.)
People’s Republic of China (Ministry of Railways) 
1,555.5 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200.0 
Total 1,755.5 
6. Implementation 
 
Implementation period.  
Implementation will begin in the second half of 2004 and continue 
through mid-2007.  The loan will close on January 31, 2008.  
 
The central Railway Ministry will be responsible for procurement of all Bank-financed items, 
through an independent procurement agent.  The Zhe-Gan civil works and installation of 
equipment will be carried out by independent contractors hired competitively.  Each of the three 
railway administrations through which the line passes will manage procurement of MOR-
financed items, and supervise implementation of the works and installation of the equipment. 
 
Finance. 
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will on-lend World Bank funds to MOR on the same 
conditions as the Bank loan to the MOF.  The loan type will be a LIBOR-based floating-rate 
single-currency (US$) loan, with 20-year maturity, including a 5-year grace period.  The 1 
percent front-end fee will be financed from the loan.  
 
Financial management.  
 Management of project finances will be the responsibility of MOR’s 
Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center (FCTIC) and the finance divisions of the Shanghai, 
Nanchang and Guangzhou Railway Administration Bureaus.  MOR’s Finance Department will 
oversee the counterpart fund arrangements for the project, while the financial divisions of the 
responsible administrations will be responsible for collecting supporting documents, monitoring 
contract payments, maintaining accounts of project activities, and preparing project financial 
statements.  FCTIC’s Finance Division will be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and 
reconciling the special account to be set up for the project, and preparing withdrawal applications 
and payment requests. 
 
Page  5
5
Disbursements. 
 The loan funds will be disbursed using traditional techniques, in accordance 
with an existing agreement between the Bank and the MOF. 
 
Audit Arrangements.
 
As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment 
Audit Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO) (established in 1983 as the State 
Audit Administration) will have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the project. 
The CNAO resident offices in Shanghai, Nanchang and Guangzhou will conduct the actual 
audits. The Bank currently accepts audits performed under the supervision and responsibility of 
CNAO.  Audits of the financial statements of the project and of MOR, and the audit of the 
special account and statements of expenditures will be submitted to the Bank within six months 
after the end of each financial year.  
 
Resettlement and environmental supervision and monitoring. 
 The governments of Zhejiang, 
Jiangxi and Hunan will be responsible for implementing the environmental management plan 
and resettlement plan, funded by MOR.  Oversight will be provided by the Environmental 
Protection Bureaus and the State Environmental Protection Administration in these provinces.  
 
Progress reporting and planning
.
FCTIC will be responsible for preparing half-yearly and 
annual progress reports, including annual implementation plans.  The half-yearly reports will 
focus on physical and financial progress, outline implementation problems for all components, 
and suggest corrective actions.  The annual progress report will be used to review the progress 
achieved in the preceding year, update the Project Implementation Plan, and draw up the 
implementation plan for the following year. 
 
World Bank supervision arrangements. 
 The project has been prepared by a team based in 
both Beijing and Washington and led from Beijing, and the same team will supervise the project. 
The team will include specialists to supervise the implementation of the physical components, 
financial management systems, procurement activities, disbursement, and the implementation of 
resettlement and environmental plans.  The supervision plan includes a project launch workshop 
and two formal supervision missions every year, including an annual review mission. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The physical sustainability of the proposed investments is sound.  Experience from completed 
and on-going Bank-
financed railway projects in China confirms Chinese Railways’ commitment 
to the physical implementation of its projects.  CR has the ability to build and operate the assets 
and has provided timely and sufficient maintenance funding for existing infrastructure. 
 
Traffic volumes on CR are expected to keep growing.  Economic return calculations of 
completed railways projects in China at the time of loan closing --when the line financed by the 
loan has been in operation for one or two years-- often show higher values than at project 
appraisal. 
 
Page  6
6
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Chinese Transport Sector 
 
The client and the Bank have drawn valuable lessons from preparing and implementing past 
railway projects and these lessons have been taken into account in the preparation of this project. 
 
First, a project should not include components to which the client is not fully committed.  This 
can lead to the restructuring of the project, as was the case with Railways VII.  
 
Second, including too many components in a project (as was the case in Railways VI and VII) 
affects implementation negatively, because both the client and the Bank have limited resources 
for supervision and implementation.  
 
Third, when designing and implementing project components, the project office, railway staff in 
MOR in Beijing, and railway staff in the regional administrations need to work with each other 
closely to implement the project efficiently. 
 
Fourth, 
client commitment to Bank guidelines and procedures is essential.  Problems arose with 
regard to resettlement and environmental issues in Railways VI and VII.  However, in recent 
years the Chinese Government has internalized concern over environmental impacts and 
resettlement to a far greater degree, and domestic safeguards are converging to the standards 
required by the IFIs.  MOR has recently appointed a resettlement coordinator in its headquarters 
in Beijing
.
Fifth, the progress of China Railways towards improving business processes and policy reform 
has been steady and generally in a direction that the Bank supports.  MOR has continued to shed 
non-core activities and recently separated from MOR its four design institutes, Railway 
Communications Company, the material supply company, and several hospitals and educational 
institutions.  It also set up three special-purpose companies (wholly owned by MOR) that will 
handle tr
ansportation of containers, special cargoes and parcels.  The Bank’s support in 
improving the management of China Railways and its business processes has been effective and 
should be continued. 
 
9.  Environment Aspects (including public consultation) 
 
Issues:  
The original project proposed for Bank financing was the electrification of the existing 
Hangzhou-Zhuzhou (Zhe-Gan) line. Category B/S2 was assigned to the project during the 
Project Concept safeguards review meeting in February 2003.  Design work was under way 
when the Zhe-Gan line was chosen as one of the lines for speed-increasing under MOR’s nation-
wide campaign.  Since these two investments are closely linked in time, place and function, the 
Task Team advised MOR that Category A would be triggered.  The environmental impact 
assessments were prepared accordingly.  
 
According to these reports, the project area is predominantly cultivated land and some waste 
land.  Due to long and intensive human activity along the line as well as the long period of 
operation of the existing railway, there are no wildlife, rare animals or rare plants that need 
special protection in the project areas.  
 
Page  7
7
The major safeguard issues associated with the proposed project are:   
(1) increased noise impact on sensitive sites such as schools, hospitals, and households near 
the rail line;   
(2) social severance due to totally fenced operation after speed-increasing;   
(3) selection of optimal alternative sections to avoid and minimize impacts on villages and 
communities along the alignment;   
(4) increased waste water and solid waste from stations and service facilities;   
(5) adequate public consultation;  and  
(6) integration of the proposed environmental mitigation measures in the Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP).  
 
The environmental impact assessment report found that the proposed highway would not affect 
ecologically sensitive or natural protection areas, and that its construction and operation would 
have no significant impact on the environment, provided the mitigation measures given in the 
EMP are implemented properly.  Due to the change from diesel to electricity, upon operation the 
project would have significant net positive impact by reducing emission of SO
2
by 71%, NOx by 
87%, and smoke and dust by 87%. 
 
The environmental impacts likely to occur during the construction include:  construction noise, 
potential increase in soil erosion, and generation of dust during construction and transport of 
materials, interference with the local community and traffic, waste water and solid waste from 
construction and camp sites, impacts on local hydro-geological regimes, and impacts on the local 
ecology and irrigation system, and the safety and health of labor workers.  Ecological protection 
at borrow sites and safe disposal of spoils will require close attention and supervision during 
construction.  The traffic noise and vibration, waste water and solid waste from train stations and 
service areas, and social severance are the potential adverse impacts during the operation period. 
 
Though the speed-raising project is mainly to upgrade the existing line, there are sections where 
an alternative alignment has been evaluated with integrated consideration of environment, social 
and engineering aspects.  The final alignment was chosen based on a series of technical, 
environmental and social criteria, i.e. avoidance of environmentally sensitive areas and cultural 
properties, less social interference, shorter length, less land occupation, and compatibility with 
local master planning.  The final alignment is 26.6 km shorter than the existing line and avoids 
the Donghuashan-Shitatou Tombs of the Han Dynasty, a county-level site protected for its 
historical and cultural value. 
 
A
stand-alone Environmental Management Plan has been prepared.  It specifies the appropriate 
environmental management and supervision set-up, mitigation measures, environmental 
monitoring plans, training plans and budget allocation necessary to implement the mitigation 
measures and strengthen the borrower’s capacity.  Major mitigation measures include:  
·
watering to prevent dust,  
·
installation of noise barriers and sound insulation windows to protect against excess 
noise, 
·
installation/renovation of waste water treatment facility to minimize water pollution,  
Page  8
8
·
installation of continuous welded rail and high-quality overhead catenary to minimize 
electro-magnetic frequency interference,  
·
safe disposal and reclamation of excess waste materials, and  
·
design of adequate underpasses for pedestrian and farm vehicles to minimize social 
severance.   
 
The EMP also includes extensive re-vegetation and re-plantation plan for borrow/disposal areas 
and sub-grade slopes. 
 
This will be the tenth World Bank project to be implemented by the MOR and the second for 
railway administrations in Zhejiang, Jiangxi and Hunan;  the Zhe-Gan second track was built 
under the Fifth Railway Project.  Therefore, the borrower has developed ample in-house capacity 
to implement, supervise and monitor both the environmental and resettlement action plans. 
 
The key project stakeholders are the MOR and its administrations in the three provinces, the 
local people who may lose land and livelihoods, villagers and communities that may be 
displaced, divided, or impacted because of the alignment passing through or near their villages;  
and hospitals, schools, and individual households that may be affected by the upgrading and 
operation of the railway line.  Three rounds of public consultation were carried out with the 
affected people and communities, local government and environmental experts, and the relevant 
information and documents were provided at the public meetings.  A total of 2,580 people were 
consulted, and the environmental assessments were placed in the public libraries of 10 cities 
along the line in January 2004.  In addition, the reports’ major findings were published in three 
provincial newspapers and made available at the information center of the Bank’s Beijing Office.
 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents: 
1. Feasibility Study from Second Railway Survey and Design Institute (Chengdu)
 
2. Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plan 
3. Resettlement Action Plan 
4. Project Implementation Plan 
 
11. Contact 
Point: 
 
Contact: Graham Smith 
Title:   Lead Transportation Specialist / Task Team Leader 
Tel:  
86-10-5861-7730 
Fax:  
86-10-5861-7800 
Email:  Grsmith@worldbank.org 
Location: Beijing, China (IBRD) 
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Page  9
9
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
