                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000918




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-47460)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION
                                     TO THE

                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR A

                    SECOND NATIONAL RAILWAYS PROJECT




                                  August 15, 2008




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and the Pacific Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2008)

                     Currency Unit = Renminbi (Yuan)
                         RMB1.00 = US$0.1389
                          US$1.00 = RMB7.00

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CR     China Railways
EAP    Environmental Action Plan
EASTE  East Asia Transport, Energy and Mining Sector
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IT     Information Technology
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOR    Ministry of Railways
NA     Not Available
NDRC   National Development and Reform Commission
NPV    Net Present Value
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PMO    Project Management Office
RA     Regional (Railway) Administration
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RMB    Renminbi
TA     Technical Assistance


              Vice President:      Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
            Country Director:      Mr. David R. Dollar, EACCF
             Sector Manager:       Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
          Task Team Leader:        Mr. John Scales, EASCS
          ICR Team Leader:         Mr. John Scales, EASCS

                                                     CHINA

                             CN-Second National Railways Project


                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 10
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 11
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 12
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 13
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 14
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 15
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 23
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 23
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24

 MAPS
       1. China Railway Network (IBRD 35662)
       2. Second National Railway Project (IBRD 33201)
       3. Second National Project Zhe-Gan Line (IBRD 33202)

Note: The following Annexes are not applicable to this project and have been excluded:
      Beneficiary Survey Results
      Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
      Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Second National
Country:                China                  Project Name:         Railways Project (Zhe-
                                                                     Gan Line)
Project ID:             P075602                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-47460
ICR Date:               08/17/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:             P.R. CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 199.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Railways, Foreign Capital & Technical Import Center
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/20/2003     Effectiveness:        01/16/2005       01/16/2005
Appraisal:             03/29/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/24/2004    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              01/31/2008       01/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Highly Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)             Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  1                 1
Railways                                                          99                99


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                                  Secondary        Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       John Carter Scales                  Graham Smith
ICR Team Leader:           John Carter Scales
ICR Primary Author:        Richard G. Bullock
                           Jitendra Sondhi



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
This Project has two objectives:
  (a) improve services provided to customers of the Zhe-Gan railway line; and
  (b)    upgrade the quality of track maintenance on heavily used portions of China
Railways' network.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                                  approval          Target      Completion or
                                                documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   The transit time per trip for freight trains (minutes)
Value
quantitative or 1,575                       1,400                              931
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        150%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   The transit time per trip for passenger trains (minutes)
Value
quantitative or 829                         600                                561
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        107%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   The transit time per trip for express passenger trains (minutes)
Value
quantitative or 660                         660                                336
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        196%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Average track downtime (minutes per day) reduced by 50%
Value
quantitative or 180                         180                                90
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        200%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                  approval          Revised     Completion or
                                                documents)       Target Values   Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of pairs of passenger express train per day at a maximum speed of 200
                km/h.
Value           0                           2                                  2



                                                  iii

(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  The traffic volume for freight (billion ton-m)
Value
(quantitative  40.0                       42.6                          51.6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       121%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  The traffic volume for passenger (billion pass-km)
Value
(quantitative  24.0                       27.3                          40.1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       147%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Design headway between trains (minutes)
Value
(quantitative  8                          7                             7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       100%
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                            IP         Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     11/24/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory              0.00
  2     01/07/2005          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory              0.00
  3     05/26/2005          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory              1.00
  4     03/20/2006          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory            101.86
  5     03/30/2007          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory            169.29



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (25141-CHA, January 22, 2003) included as
priorities the strengthening of transport links within and to lagging regions, improving
public sector management and delivery of services and facilitating an environmentally
sustainable development process. This project responded to these three CAS priorities. It
was also in line with the Bank strategy for the Railway Sector in China of supporting
increased capacity, improved service quality of passenger and freight transport services
on rail and the adoption of modern railway technologies. Before this project the Bank had
supported eight projects with the national railway and one with a provincial railway. The
first project went to the Board in 1984.

The Ministry of Railways (MOR) has been facing mounting competition from the
expanding highway system. It faced the dual challenges of increasing capacity as well as
increasing service quality while maintaining profitability. This project was designed to
improve the transport connectivity of southwestern China to the east, enhance capacity
and improve service quality by upgrading an important rail line linking Shanghai and
Zhejiang with Jiangxi and Hunan (and from there to Guizhou and Yunnan) provinces,
thereby helping to address the needs of poorer and disadvantaged regions. In addition,
the conversion of this line from diesel to electric traction (which is partly generated from
hydropower sources) will yield environmental benefits.

Although China Railways has been successful in expanding its network and serving
growing volumes of business, both freight and passengers, it continued to lose market
share as other transport modes, particularly the highways, modernized. Additional
capacity is planned in the Government's 11th Five Year Plan (2006-2010) and Mid- and
Long-Term Development Plan (2006-2020). In addition, the Government has encouraged
the railway to continue adapting to the challenges of operating in a competitive transport
market and has sought the Bank's advice in this respect on the strength of its experience
with railways around the world. It also expected the international financial institutions to
facilitate its access to international technology and best practice in planning and
management.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
This Project has two objectives: (a) improve services provided to customers of the Zhe-
Gan railway line; and (b) upgrade the quality of track maintenance on heavily used
portions of China Railways' network.

Project outcomes were to be measured by three groups of indicators:

Zhe-Gan Line
    (a)      The transit time per trip to be reduced by:
             · freight trains:                  15%
             · ordinary passenger trains:       50%
             · express passenger trains:        40%


                                                1

    (b)     The unit operating cost to be reduced by:
            · freight trains:           45%
            · passenger trains:         4%

Track Maintenance
    (c)     average track downtime (minutes per day) to be reduced by 50%

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The development objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the
Project. However, two key indicators for the Zhe-Gan line were modified by a formal
amendment to the loan agreement dated June 26, 2006.

(a)     It was not possible for MOR to provide meaningful data for the `variable
operating cost' for the Zhe-Gan line since MOR does not work out such costs by line. It
was therefore agreed that this indicator be deleted from the loan agreement since it did
not directly correspond to the project's development objectives and the data for the
indicator is not available.

(b)     The travel time of (non-express) passenger trains in 2008 and 2009, was listed as
415 minutes in the Supplemental Letter No. 2 to the Loan Agreement that reduced the
transit time per trip by 50 percent. It was felt that 415 minutes may have been listed in
error and it was revised to 500 minutes. A passenger train, to complete the trip in 415
minutes, would have to travel an average of 132 km/h. over the 916 km length of the
realigned Zhe-Gan line. The project appraisal document notes that the average speed of
express passenger trains having a maximum speed of 200 km/h, will only be 141 km/h
after improvements. A trip time of 500 minutes for (non-express) passenger trains having
more stops and a maximum speed of 160 km/h, on the other hand, can be accomplished at
a more reasonable, but respectable, average speed of 110 km/h that still reduces the travel
time of ordinary passenger trains by 40 percent.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The population of southwestern China was expected to benefit from the increase in
passenger services and reduced travel time. The increase in rail freight transport capacity
and reduction in transit time of freight trains was expected to benefit the producers of
agricultural, mineral, and manufactured goods in southwestern China by improving
access to markets in eastern China.

China Railways was expected to benefit from the reduced track downtime across its
network due to the modernization of track maintenance technology, as well as from the
advisory services that would strengthen its planning, management and technology
capacity.




                                               2

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project included the following components:

1. Zhe-Gan Line Improvements
    1A Speed Raising
    1B Signaling and Communications
    1C Electrification
    1D Land Acquisition and Resettlement
2. Modernization of Track Maintenance Technology
3. Technical Assistance

Zhe-Gan Line Improvements

The original Zhe-Gan line was a 942-km long, double track, diesel-powered, and
allowing a maximum speed of 120 km/h. This project installed new signaling, realigned
sharp curves and carried out other civil works needed to permit higher speeds. The line
has been electrified throughout and is now capable of 200 km/h express trains operated
by electric multiple units (EMUs), while slower passenger and freight trains are operated
with electric locomotives. End-to-end trip times have been cut by several hours. The
new signaling and communications equipment allow design headway between trains to
be reduced, increasing the line capacity significantly. Electrification allows the
maximum gross weight of freight trains to be increased by at least a third.

Modernizing of track maintenance technology

The project also acquired additional mechanized, high-capacity equipment for replacing
worn rail and switches, renewing ballast, and other maintenance tasks on heavy-traffic
lines. In addition rail-based mobile cranes were procured that can be deployed rapidly to
sites of accidents and derailments, enhancing the capacity to clear accidents and restore
normal operations quickly on heavy-traffic lines.

Strengthening MOR's planning, management and technology capacity

It had been expected that studies for the improvement of business processes may be
carried out.

1.6 Revised Components
There was no revision of components.

1.7 Other significant changes
Due to the appreciation of Chinese currency against US$, the US$ value of RMB
contracts increased. This together with an increase in the price of certain commodities
caused a shortfall in Bank funding for goods. Subsequently, MOR requested the Bank to
reallocate US$ 1.6 million from "consultant services" to "goods" category in order to
allow the purchase of remaining track maintenance equipment. The loan agreement was
amended on June 26, 2006. Following this amendment, the table in paragraph 1 of



                                             3

Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement provided US$ 197.5 million for goods and US$ 0.5
million for consulting services and training.

        Goods:                                $197.5 million (previously $195.9 million),
        Consulting services and training:     $0.5 million (previously $2.1 million), and
        Fee:                                  $1.0 million (previously $2.0 million)
        Total                                 $199.0 million (previously $200.0 million)
(The fee was reduced by the Bank from 1.0 to 0.5%. The government decided to reduce
the total loan amount from $200 to $199.0 million)

Further shortfall in Bank funding for the same reasons stated above resulted in the
eventual reallocation of the remaining US$0.5 million from the Consultants' services
category to the Goods category. Specific studies were not identified in the Loan
Agreement and the delivery of technical assistance was not required to achieve the
development objective, where on the other hand, the purchase of the remaining track
maintenance equipment was essential to the achievement of the development objective.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project focused on the prevailing needs of the rail sub-sector at the time of project
appraisal. Capacity constraints were causing shortages of coal at power stations and the
stockpiling of imports at certain ports and the need to improve service quality,
particularly for passenger services, had become important as competition from highways
and air services increased. The project components were in line with the CAS and
addressed four important issues related to rail transport in China: (i) enhancing the
capacity and service quality on an important corridor that connects lagging southwestern
China with prosperous eastern region by upgrading an important rail link; (ii) improving
railway's operating efficiency by modernizing track maintenance technology, (iii)
supporting environmental sustainability by conversion of this line from diesel to electric
traction and (iv) providing advisory services to strengthen MOR's planning, management
and technology capacity.

Lessons learnt from Railway VI and VII projects had shown the project should not
include components to which the client is not fully committed, nor so many components
that they cannot be properly supervised during implementation. Accordingly, this project
had fewer components and the client supported all project components.

Another lesson learnt was that the participation and co-operation of regional
administrations with MOR in the design and implementation of projects was important
and project planning included close contact with regional administrations during project
launch and project supervision.

At appraisal MOR had completed the technical design for Zhe-Gan line improvements,
covering speed raising, modifying signaling and telecommunications and electrification.
The Bank's appraisal team reviewed in detail various aspects of the project feasibility
report, including technical parameters and engineering design, projected traffic volumes,
estimates of costs and benefits and safeguard issues, in Beijing and during site visits. The

                                              4

project was well within the capacity of MOR. The project team received MOR's full
support in project preparation and appraisal.

The technical risks noted at appraisal included the non-availability of sufficient electric
power, non-availability of EMUs to operate 200 km/h trains, work rules not being
modified to exploit the full benefits of electrification and the adverse impact of shock
waves of trains entering tunnels at high speed. Specific measures were included in the
loan conditions to eliminate or reduce the above risks.

The Bank did not assess any significant risk in respect of MOR's ability to implement the
project in an efficient and timely manner or in the realization of projected increase in
traffic volume. Although China Railways had steadily improved its implementation of
safeguard policies, and it was expected that these would be aligned closely with those of
the Bank, its commitment to Bank resettlement and environmental guidelines and
procedures was also ensured through planning close supervision of safeguard-related
activities during project implementation.

The project was well prepared. Sound background analysis had been undertaken. The
project was well designed, the government was fully committed, and most risks
reasonably assessed. However, the growing risk of the Chinese currency strengthening
against US$ and the eventual steep rise in project commodity costs during project
implementation was not recognized. As a result, even after the reallocation from the non-
essential consultants' services category to the goods category, there was insufficient Bank
funds to finance the purchase a small (US$400 thousand) amount of goods.

2.2 Implementation
The Bank loan to support this project was approved in June 2004. Construction
(realigning and upgrading track to 200km/h speed capability and increasing the axle load
from 20.3 to 25 tonnes) commenced in July 2004. In addition, flood protection works and
relocation of a major station were undertaken simultaneously, funded by MOR and local
government1. The civil works were substantially complete by the end of 2006, a
commendable achievement since they were carried out while the line was operational and
the construction teams were only given track possessions for four hours or so each day.
The procurement of goods for signaling and communications, electrification and track
machines was processed in parallel. The procured equipment was delivered and installed
by the end of December 2006 as per the project implementation schedule. Electric
locomotives were progressively introduced on the upgraded Zhe-Gan line from January
2007. The EMU trains capable of operation at 200km/h were delivered on schedule in
early 2007. After initial testing, the 200km/h service was introduced on this line from
April 18, 2007.

The main reasons for the satisfactory and timely implementation of the project were:
     (i) strong political commitment at a high level;



1 In all about RMB 3.1 billion of MOR funds were used for the flood prevention works and RMB 1.2 million for the
relocation of Yiwu station.


                                                        5

    (ii) timely availability of counterpart funding;

    (iii) meticulous project planning, including deployment of multiple groups for
        construction work;

Under the second component for modernization of track maintenance technology, it was
planned to procure 28 large track maintenance machines. Due to a substantial increase in
metal prices and the strengthening of the Chinese currency against the US $, there was a
significant increase in the US$ cost of goods procured in China. Although US$ 1.6
million of the US$ 2.1 million originally earmarked for consulting services was
reallocated to goods, Bank funds were still insufficient to procure all the track
maintenance machines and as such 23 track machines were procured against the original
planned 28. Available counterpart financing was not available to procure the remaining 5
track machines.

Eventually and in agreement with the Bank, the residual US$ 0.5 million allocated for
consulting services was also utilized for funding the procurement of goods. As the goods
procured were necessary to support the achievement of the development objective they
took precedence over the technical assistance studies. The technical assistance studies
originally proposed for this project are now being considered for possible delivery
through subsequent Bank-financed projects with the Ministry of Railways.

The total cost of the project was 5.2 percent higher than the appraisal estimates. The cost
of Bank-financed equipment and services was lower than the estimates in RMB terms but
higher in US$ terms. The cost of locally funded equipment and works was higher by
about six percent.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The M&E key performance indicators for the components supporting the development
objectives are mostly simple and concise measures which directly monitored the
achievement of the PDO. The exception is the indicator for "operating expense per
thousand ton-km"; this is in practice calculated by MOR for entire railway
administrations rather than a specific route or line and could not be estimated as intended
for the specific project line. As such this indicator was deleted through a formal
amendment to the loan agreement dated June 26, 2006.

The M&E key performance indicator for track maintenance monitors the track down-time
for maintenance; this is a direct (inverse) reflection of the benefits.

The M&E key performance indicators for the infrastructure and track maintenance
components are routinely collected by MOR and can be taken as accurate. As with all
linear transport infrastructure projects, performance indicators can only be collected once
the project has been physically completed.

Since the M&E indicators selected (other than the discarded cost indicator) are routinely
collected by MOR, these provide an ongoing capability to MOR to monitor the
performance on the project line beyond the project implementation period.



                                               6

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment
The overall implementation of Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was satisfactory.
It is noted that MOR and its three Administrations paid much attention to environmental
protection and the mitigation measures developed in EMP were effectively implemented.

During the field visit, it was observed that all embankment slopes were properly
protected with engineering and plantation stabilization and abandoned railway sections
were either reclaimed as green belt/farmland or converted to public roads for the benefit
of local communities. The soil borrow sites/quarries (24 sites in total), spoil disposal sites
(79 sites in total) and temporary occupied lands were all reclaimed as farmland,
water/fish ponds, forest/grass land or construction land for urban/industrial development.
Many access roads upon construction completion have been properly paved and upgraded
as local roads which are greatly appreciated by the local population. Noise barriers were
installed at 108 sites. Fine tuning of alignment during detailed design stage avoided some
of the noise sensitive sites originally identified during EA preparation. Several additional
passages (overpasses and culverts) were constructed in consultation with local
communities during construction. New stations were well planned with full consultation
of local governments and great efforts have been made on station design featuring local
culture and greening of environment around the stations. Adequate sanitary facilities
were installed for sewage treatment (discharged to local sewage network) and garbage
collection. According to the final monitoring conducted by OASIS in November 2007,
the wastewater discharge and noise impact on selective sensitive sites are in compliance
with relevant standards.

The project continued the practice of engaging an independent Environmental
Compliance Monitor (which was first adopted in National Railway I Bao-Lan Line
Project) in addition to the traditional Supervision Engineer. The Monitor conducted
independent field supervision for environmental performance of contractors, provided
environmental protection training to management staff from railway administrations,
supervision engineers and contractors, and submitted monitoring reports to the Bank. The
independent Environmental Compliance Monitor approach has proved to be effective and
has been adopted in subsequent Bank funded railway projects.

Social Safeguards
An ICR mission to the project line in March 2008 visited five resettlement villages in five
different counties and after discussions with resettled persons, resettlement staff and local
officials, concluded that the resettlement was completed successfully. It found that the
affected people were satisfied with their compensation and other arrangements.

The resettlement and land acquisition work associated with the project was monitored by
Southwest Communication University, with annual review as part of Bank missions. The
monitoring reports were well prepared, with only minor matters that required follow-up,
and were a significant improvement on those prepared during earlier railway projects.
Resettlement was jointly managed by the relevant local governments and railway
administration and implemented in line with, and in some cases beyond, the requirements


                                                7

of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The RAP was well publicized and the
distribution of compensation funds determined locally. Persons affected were
compensated either through redistribution of land, being provided with an alternative site,
or cash compensation.

Fiduciary
Financial management and reporting was in accordance to the Loan Agreement and the
project complied with all Bank guidelines. Disbursement tracked largely in accordance
to initial projections, with a slower pace at the beginning but coming closer or surpassing
initial targets after a year-and-a-half after the declaration of effectiveness.

Procurement
Procurement was carried out relatively smoothly though protracted delays in Bank HQ
procurement approvals on some contracts led to Government complaints. Project
procurement was carried out in compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The service on the line continues to meet or exceed expectations and track and rolling
stock is being well maintained2. Further, data for the year 2007 shows that the
operational performance on the Zhe-Gan line continues to improve. The required
maintenance facilities for newly introduced electric locomotives and EMU train sets have
been set up. Adequate number of operational and maintenance staff was trained to handle
electric locomotives and EMUs. The track machines procured under this project are
operational and are based at existing well established track maintenance depots that are
capable of their efficient operation as well as maintenance. Bank's experience has been
that MOR maintains such assets in good condition and there is a high level of confidence
for the sustainability of this project.

Based on the experience of previous rail projects, no specific measures by the Bank are
required to ensure sustainability of this specific project beyond the normal operating and
maintenance practices of MOR. No follow-up phase to the upgrading component is
necessary.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives, design and implementation of the project remain relevant in today's
context. The project directly responds to the current Country Partnership Strategy 2006-
10 (CPS) that consists of five pillars. This project addresses the integration of China into
world economy (Pillar 1) by developing rail infrastructure connecting south-western
China with ports located on east coast and, given its location on the main transport link



2 This conclusion is based upon field visits in April 2007 and March 2008. In April 2007, the team traveled a distance
of 600 km from Nanchang to Hangzhou on a 200 km/h speed train at an average speed of 150 km/h including four
stops enroute. The quality of track was excellent and train ride smooth and comfortable. The interior of the eight car
train set was somewhat better than equivalent airline standard.


                                                            8

for south-western China. The project also supports a second pillar of CPS: to address
poverty reduction by providing the relatively poor region access to efficient rail
transportation. The third pillar of CPS that gives priority to managing resource scarcity
and environmental challenges is supported by the promotion of rail transportation on an
important corridor that makes much less demand on land use, is more energy efficient
and causes less pollution with the change over from diesel to electric traction as well as
competing with the more energy-intensive alternatives of road and air transport. The
beneficiaries include three of China's six poorest provinces, with average household
expenditures in 2006 that were around two-thirds of those for China as a whole. Their
access to the markets of eastern China has been significantly improved (see indicators in
Annex 1).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Based on the performance indicators the project has achieved its primary objective to
improve services provided to customers of the Zhe-Gan railway line. The project was
implemented efficiently and completed on schedule. The project has generated additional
transport capacity on a busy east-west corridor and the volume of traffic for freight as
well as passenger in 2007 has already exceeded the targets for the year 2009 by a wide
margin. The project is a key investment eliminating a major bottleneck on one of the
most important rail corridors in China. It has not only increased rail transport capacity
between southwestern China and Shanghai but also has created major operational
benefits by significantly increasing the speed of both passenger and freight trains.

All the key performance indicators associated with this component have been met or
exceeded. Furthermore, the service quality for passengers has improved dramatically with
the introduction of 200km/h trains that not only reduce the travel time by 40 percent but
also provide a very high standard of comfort. The travel time of ordinary passenger trains
in 2007 had also been reduced by over 30 percent, in line with key monitoring indicators.

The deployment of new track machines has helped improve the quality of track
maintenance. Zhe-Gan line, as indication of other heavily used portions of the network,
has had a 50 percent reduction in down time of track a year earlier than targeted.


3.3 Efficiency
The estimated project economic return has been derived on the same basis as that adopted
in the PAD, i.e. a conventional transport project evaluation framework which identifies
the operational benefits arising from the project: savings in operating cost and travel time
and service-related user benefits. Based on the analysis in Annex 3, the reevaluation
estimates that the economic rate of return for the Zhe-Gan project is 26 percent,
compared to the economic return of 19 percent reported in the PAD.

No re-evaluation has been undertaken for the track machinery (which had an IRR of
106% at appraisal based on two case studies) as the indicators on which this was based
have been achieved or exceeded and a re-evaluation using the appraisal framework will
thus give at least as good a result.



                                              9

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.

The primary operating efficiency and capacity outcomes including decreased transit time
per trip and reduction in track downtime have been substantially achieved well ahead of
plan.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible.

There is little risk that the development outcome associated with the physical component
will not be maintained. The project has already achieved all the physical KPIs projected
for 2008 a year in advance and, as part of the main south-west route in China, will be a
priority link for the foreseeable future. This project will continue to provide significant
support to the development objectives included in 2003 CAS and 2006- 10 CPS.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was highly relevant within the context of the CAS and its preparation was
thorough that enabled smooth implementation. Safeguard policies were carefully
reviewed at appraisal and no unforeseen issues arose. The project built upon lessons
learned from previous China railway projects avoiding many of the earlier problems.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory.

Field supervision missions concentrated on the progress of physical works and adherence
to safeguards policies. With the exception of the issue discussed in the next paragraph, no
major issues arose that required unusual attention or special remedial measures.

In 2006 it became clear that the currency appreciation and increase in commodity prices
would cause a shortfall in funds for procurement of goods. In order to support
achievement of the development objective, the Bank processed the amendment to the
loan agreement and end of project reallocation to reallocate a total of US$ 2.1 million
from "consulting services" to "goods" category.



                                              10

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory.
The Government was strongly committed to the project, appropriately represented the
eventual benefits of the project, ensured capable implementation staff and provided
adequate counterpart funding in a timely manner.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly satisfactory.
The project was implemented to budget and on schedule. Disbursement was consistently
at or above the original schedule. Project quality was excellent. Though there were a few
delays in implementation of resettlement due to the administrative structure (MOR is
primarily responsible for the costs and local government is primarily responsible for
administration), the implementing agency (FCTIC in MOR) proactively intervened to the
ultimate satisfaction of those impacted and the Bank. In addition, FCTIC addressed the
currency appreciation issue and the rise in project commodity prices in a timely manner
and ensured that all essential project equipment was procured and made available on time.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory.
The overall Borrower performance is rated as highly satisfactory. Reflecting this
performance, the Bank's Board of Directors has, subsequent to this project, approved two
additional China railway projects and the Bank is in the process of preparing an
additional two continuing to reinforce the China Ministry of Railway's position as one of
the Bank's strongest partners.

6. Lessons Learned

The efficient implementation of the project again demonstrated the value of a well
designed project and clear and thorough project planning. The one area which continues
to require some attention is in the area of resettlement compensation. The Minister of
Railways does not directly administer resettlement; this is done in cooperation with local
governments from the provincial level down to the village level. On China railway
projects this can lead to a disconnect between the project's Resettlement Action Plan and
actual implementation. Reinforcing the control mechanisms is an important lesson to be
applied to future China railway projects.

The use of an independent Environmental Compliance Monitor was a success and is now
being employed for other major projects with potential environmental sensitivity,
ensuring that proper attention is paid to environmental safeguards while freeing the
supervising engineer to concentrate on technical issues.




                                              11

Earlier practice had been to include contingencies in an "unallocated" category to cover
unexpected cost overruns. At the time this project was appraised though, many transport
infrastructure projects in China were coming in under cost estimates due to conservative
estimates and strong competition from construction companies emerging from State
administration with the result being that loan savings emerged which were often canceled.
This Project did not include a provision for physical and price contingencies and thus did
not have any flexibility to cover the unexpected sharp price rises in metals and an
unexpected strengthening of the RMB against US$ that increased the cost of RMB
contracts in US$ terms. This led to a shortfall of funding for Bank funded procurement.
The practice of including contingencies to cover potential increase in prices and exchange
rate fluctuations should be carefully considered in future projects.

Finally, the loan was amended to drop two indicators that could not reasonably be
measured given the data collection mechanisms of the railway owner. KPIs should, as far
as possible, relate to indicators which are routinely reported (of which there is no
shortage in the railway sector) and clearly understood by the client.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower's comments are complementary of the project's achievements and the
relationship established between the Bank and the Ministry of Railways.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                             12

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

ZHE-GAN LINE
IMPROVEMENTS                          1,496.90            1,733.40           115.8

MODERNIZATION OF TRACK
MAINTENANCE                              75.00              67.30             89.7
TECHNOLOGY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       2.00               0.00            0.0


             Total Baseline Cost       1,573.90           1,800.70           114.4

Physical and Price Contingencies         96.30                0.00            0.00

Interest During Construction             83.30               45.80            55.2
              Total Project Costs      1,753.50               0.00            0.0
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         2.00               1.00            50.0
     Total Financing Required          1,755.50           1,847.50           105.2



(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          1555.50      1,648.50     106.0
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   200.00       199.00       99.5




                                             13

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

      Component/Output                     Planned (PAD 2004)                   Actual on
                                                                               completion
Zhe-Gan Line Improvements
    Speed Raising               Realigning and upgrading of existing track:     1,164 km
                                900 track km
    Signaling and               Improving signaling and communications           939 km
    Communications              on double track: 916 route km
    Electrification             Electrification: 3,045 track km                 2,826 km
    Land Acquisition and        Land acquisition: 26,668 mu                     31,800 mu
    Resettlement                Resettlement: 2,666 families                 7,573 families
Modernization of Track          Procure track machines 28                     23 machines
Maintenance Technology          Increase coverage of track maintenance      73,000 track-km.
                                depots from 40,000 to 67,000 track-km
Technical Assistance            4 TA studies                                      None



Zhe-Gan Line Improvements: This was a double track, 942 km long railway line
operated by diesel locomotives. The project includes realigning and upgrading track
(financed by MOR) to enable raising the speed from 120 to 200 km/h and increase axle
load from 20.3 to 25t. This required improvement of about 900 km of track (about 50%
of track length) ,and construction of 109 bridges (26.8km total length) and 24 double
track tunnels (9.5km) and 4 single track (1.8 km) tunnels. Due to realignment the length
of the line was reduced from 942 to 916 km. The signaling and telecommunications
systems were improved (partly funded by the Bank) to reduce design headway between
trains from present 8 to 7 minutes. Further, the line was electrified (partly financed by the
Bank) with a catenary height of 6.45m to permit double stack container operation. These
improvements increased the transport capacity on this east ­west railway corridor and
reduced the travel time on ordinary and express passenger trains by 40 percent and that
for freight trains by 33 percent.

Modernization of Track Maintenance Technology: The project also financed
procurement of track maintenance machines (Bank financed). These machines were
deployed on Zhe-Gan line as well as other lines of MOR. As a result the track down time
per day on the Zhe-Gan line was reduced from 180 to 90 minutes. The coverage of track
maintenance by machines was increased from 40,000 to 73,000 track km.

Technical Assistance: Four TA subjects were planned to be addressed to strengthen
MOR's planning, management and technology capacity. These studies could not be
carried out since funds allocated for TA were reallocated to goods to cover funding
shortfall due to appreciation of RMB against the US$ and increase in commodity prices,
particularly steel and copper.




                                              14

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

This Annex presents the economic re-evaluation of the component of the Second
National Railway Project covering the electrification and upgrading of the 942 km
double-track Zhe-Gan line linking Hangzhou and Zhuzhou.

The line is the main corridor linking Shanghai with southern and south- western China
(Hunan, Jiangxi, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan) and, prior to the project,
was operating close to capacity. Given the continuing traffic growth projected for at least
the medium term, whilst the primary benefit of the project has been the reduced operating
costs and passenger time savings from the better alignment and reduced transit times, it
has also created benefits by providing increased capacity.

The ICR re-evaluation adopts the same approach as used in the PAD and concentrates on
the operating cost savings from electrification and speed-raising and the benefits to the
additional traffic that can be carried from 2015 on because of the increased capacity since
project completion. In the 'without-project' case this traffic (most of which would be
comparatively short-distance traffic of, say 300-500 km) is assumed to be either
suppressed or to require additional road capacity (which would typically be local
improvements, such as widening, to existing roads) to be constructed at the time of its
diversion. The re-evaluation has, however, modified the treatment at project appraisal of
a number of complementary costs; rollingstock capital costs have been estimated on a
fleet-average basis, as it is not captive to a particular line section and the cost of
purchasing electricity and maintaining the electrical supply system (catenary and
substations) is included as an operating cost.

The re-evaluation concludes that, based on a discount rate of 12 percent, the net present
value (NPV) for the project is RMB 33 billion and the economic rate of return (EIRR) is
26 percent for the base case ­ compared to the 19 percent figure reported in the PAD. If
the benefits to diverted and suppressed traffic are excluded, the EIRR only reduces very
slightly, as these only begin to appear after 2015, some four years after project payback
has been achieved. The improved result compared to the PAD is due to the strong growth
in passenger traffic (nearly 50%) between 2003 and 2007 and the conservative
assumptions on time savings that were made in the PAD.

To maintain consistency with the PAD methodology, the evaluation has been done over a
twenty-year period and excludes benefits related to reduced greenhouse gas emissions
caused by the transfer of road traffic to rail.

Traffic Forecasts

Table 1 shows volumes have grown steadily over the past decade, with passenger traffic
growing rather faster than freight. The PAD assumed annual growth rates of around 7 per
cent for passenger traffic and 1.2 percent for freight traffic to 2015 and no growth
thereafter; both growth rates appear conservative based on historic trends (although


                                               15

freight has been flat for the past three-four years, this has been when the line has been
upgraded with a consequent reduction in capacity). It also seems unlikely that volumes
will be constant after 2015, especially given the improvements in service levels. The re-
evaluation has assumed the same growth rates of 5% p.a. and 3.5% p.a. for passenger
traffic to 2015 and post-2015 respectively and corresponding growth rates of 3% p.a. and
2% p.a. for freight.

                       Table 1: Traffic on Zhe-Gan Line 1998-2007
                          (all traffic figures in millions of traffic units)

                                                        Task
                                             Pass-km           Net t-km
                              1998               18123            34590
                              1999               20938            35799
                              2000               22150            38186
                              2001               24136            40289
                              2002               26716            45533
                              2003               27723            48626
                              2004               32585            54524
                              2005               33882            51773
                              2006               36431            52734
                              2007               40073            51646
                           Growth rate
                           1998-2007               9%                 5%
                           2002-2007               8%                 3%
                         Source : MOR

The project has increased capacity on the route by about 10 per cent, due to the reduced
headways, and this, combined with the increased size of freight trains possible with
electric traction, means it is unlikely to reach capacity until after 2025, instead of at
around 2015 in the absence of electrification. The evaluation assumes that, in the absence
of the project, freight traffic would be progressively displaced and either divert to road or
be suppressed.

Direct Project Costs

The total direct outlays of the project, excluding the track machinery, front-end fee and
TA, amounted to RMB 14.36 billion (USD 1.73 billion) (Table 2). Of this, RMB 1.18
billion, which was largely funded by the local authority, was to relocate the line away
from the centre of Yiwu. As this is largely independent of the main objective of the
project, it has been omitted from the construction cost included in the re-evaluation. The
re-evaluation also made a small adjustment to the project costs to allow for the new track
on the existing line, which is essentially of a replacement nature rather than upgrading the
infrastructure and hence would also be incurred in a 'without-project' case, although
maybe not at this precise time. Table 2 summarizes the various functional elements of the
line upgrading project and the share of each included in the re-evaluation.




                                                  16

   Table 2: Expenditure Included in Economic Evaluation (RMB million current)

               Item                 Total     Included              Comment
 Civil works
 Land                                1148        1148                100%
 Subgrade                            1776        1776                100%
 Bridges                              770         770                100%
 Tunnels                              306         306                100%
 Buildings                            205         205                100%
 Track                               1084        976   90% - allowance for cascaded track
 Other                               1650        1650                100%
 Subtotal                            6939        6831
 Equipment
 Signalling and communications       1298        1298                100%
 Electrification                     1884        1884                100%
 Subtotal                            3182        3182
 Flood prevention                    3057        3057                100%
 Yiwu relocation                     1185           0                 0%
 Total                              14363      13070                 91%

The re-evaluation thus includes 91% of the expenditure associated with the project, after
allowance for cascading and unevaluated benefits, compared to 100% (of a project with a
much smaller scope) at appraisal. For simplicity, this proportion of 91% has been applied
equally to all years, although in practice it is more concentrated towards the later years of
the construction period, when the track maintenance equipment was purchased. Because
of the long life of many of the infrastructure works, a residual value of 50% of the capital
expenditure has been included at the end of the evaluation period.

The PAD shadow-priced the assumed labour component of local costs to allow for meals
and other payments to in-house labour. However, as the work was done by contract rather
than by direct labour, such items are already included in the contract cost and this
adjustment has not been made in the ICR re-evaluation. The costs were converted into
2006 constant prices using the annual price indices for construction and equipment to
give the total economic direct costs of the project (RMB of 2006) as RMB 13.048 billion.

Complementary Costs

The PAD evaluation included a number of items as complementary costs, which have
been excluded from the re-evaluation. The incremental rolling stock capital in this type of
project is most realistically measured as annualized costs included in operating costs, and
this approach has been adopted in this case. No complementary costs for the incremental
electrical generating capacity needed by the change from diesel power to electric traction
have been included in the re-evaluation, as this item is already included in the cost of
electricity. The additional annual operating cost of the maintenance of electrical
infrastructure is also not a complementary investment, but is part of the differential
operating costs.




                                               17

Project Benefits

Project benefits fall into two categories. First, all traffic hauled on the line benefits from
the improved operating conditions, which reduce operating costs per unit of traffic. These
arise from:

    1. Reduced transit times because of the increased capacity, reducing rail operating
         costs and providing benefits to passengers.
    2. Reduced distance due to the improved alignment.
    3. Reduced energy costs and rolling stock maintenance costs per unit of traffic
         because of the much better alignment of the new line, the improvements to the
         existing line and the fewer en-route stops required for crossing purposes.
    4. An increase in the ruling load for freight trains in both directions because of the
         increased power of the electric locomotives.
    5. Against this, there is the cost of maintaining the electrical infrastructure for the
         route.

The second category of benefits are those accruing to traffic which would be suppressed
or diverted if the project were not undertaken (albeit that this would only have happened
after 2015). Very little of this traffic would be diverted to other rail routes in the 'without-
project' case, as these are also operating close to capacity. Most such traffic would thus
not be able to travel by rail and would either be forced onto other forms of transport or
would not be able to travel at all. For this traffic, the benefits of the project are the
reduction in operating cost, and in user disbenefit, of now being able to travel by rail on
this route compared to the alternative, which is assumed to be by road. The change in
user benefits should take into account not only the tariffs by the alternative route, but also
characteristics such as speed, frequency and access/egress time. Where the road network
is approaching congestion, any traffic which does travel by road is likely to impose costs
on other road users; these have been approximated by assuming additional road capacity
is created in the 'without-project' case, by local road works, to preserve the level of
service.

Some traffic will decide that the alternative arrangements are too hard and not travel at all
in the 'without-project' case. Their benefits in the 'with-project' case are estimated using
the 'rule-of-a-half'3

The incidence of these various costs and benefits depends on the way in which the
available capacity would have been allocated in the absence of the project. As these
benefits play a relatively minor role, the re-evaluation assumes that in the 'without-
project' case none of the incremental 'with-project' traffic uses the alternative rail routes,
but that 25% (primarily local short-distance traffic of up to 600 km) uses road with the
remaining 75% suppressed.




3 This is a standard technique in transport project evaluation.



                                                           18

Benefits to Existing Traffic in Project Corridor

The operational benefits to the existing traffic are largely associated with time savings
because of the increased commercial speed4 possible on the section and the reduction in
distance following the re-alignment. These reduce the costs of on-train crew, part of
locomotive maintenance and rolling stock capital. The re-evaluation has derived these
costs from first principles, using realistic engineering-based unit costs and an estimated
breakdown of MOR operating costs. Table 3 summarizes the estimated operating cost
benefits in 2006 prices.

The reduced travel times also creates time savings for passengers and these have been
valued using a value of time of RMB 7 per hour (2006 prices), based on recent surveys of
passenger income undertaken on an adjacent line, adjusted for the above-average incomes
in Shanghai and Zhejiang, two of the main regions served by the line. This value was
increased by 7% p.a. to 2012 and by 5% p.a. thereafter to reflect the forecast increases in
per capita incomes. Although there will be some benefits to freight traffic from the
reduced transit time, these are likely to be small and have been excluded.

              Table 3: Estimated Operating Cost Benefits, 2007 (2006 prices)

                                                               Unit             Passenger           Freight
   Annual saving per passenger/tonne                      RMB                     12.64              24.99
   Traffic volume (passengers/tonnes) (2007)              Million                    42.5              54.7
   Annual saving (2006 prices)                            RMB million                536               1367

The estimated operating cost benefits at 2007 volumes RMB 1903 million per year. In
addition, there would have been RMB 1712 million per year of time savings to
passengers in a full year.

Penalties incurred by diverted traffic

Freight traffic which would otherwise be diverted to road was given a benefit based on an
assumed truck operating cost of RMB 0.40 per net ton-km in 2007. The truck operating
cost is assumed to reduce at 6% per year to 2019 to reflect continuing improvements in
roads and vehicles. The incremental cost of road construction to handle traffic using road
is estimated at RMB 0.20 per pcu-km.

Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis




4This speed includes allowance for on-route stops for operational purposes and thus takes into account delays caused
by congestion in the 'without-project' case.



                                                        19

For the economic re-evaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 24-year period
covering the four-year construction period (2004-2007) and benefits for the 20 years from
2008 to 20275. The net present value (discounted at 12% to 2008) is estimated at RMB 33
billion and the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) at 26 per cent. Table 4
summarizes the contributions to the NPV (excluding the discounted construction cost of
RMB 12.6 billion).

                  Table 4: Structure of Base Case NPV (RMB billion, 2006)


                       Operating                                  Diverted/

                        Savings          Time Savings            suppressed     Total     % of Total
                                                                   Traffic
 Passenger                       6.1                30.0                  -        36.1      73
 Freight                       12.2                     -               1.4        13.6      27
 Total                         18.3                 30.0                1.4        49.7    100
 % of total                      37                    60                 3        100

Adjustments were made in four of the base case assumptions to test the sensitivity of
these results (Table 5).

                  Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis - Estimated EIRR and NPV

                                                                           EIRR        NPV
                                                                            %       (RMB bill)
          Base Case                                                        26          33
          Sensitivity tests
           Reduce operating cost savings by 50%                            22          24
           Growth halved                                                   24          25
           Time savings excluded                                           13          3
           Benefits to diverted/suppressed traffic halved                  26          32

These results are similar in structure to those estimated at appraisal, although the make-
up of benefits is a little different and the absolute values are larger due to the strong
growth that has occurred (and is still occurring) since appraisal. The project is a key
investment improving operations on one of the most important rail corridors in China.
The EIRR is comparatively high for such a large infrastructure investment, but this is
because demand is very high and the project was implemented very quickly and has
delivered very substantial physical improvements.




5In practice, benefits were also achieved for at least half of 2007



                                                            20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

       Names                   Title              Unit              Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
 Graham Smith        Lead Transport Specialist EACCF       Task Team Leader (2002-2004)
 John Scales         Sr. Transport Specialist    EASTR     Technical
 Karin Nordlander    Lead Counsel                 LEGEA    Legal
 Robert O'Leary      Sr. Finance Officer          LOAG3    Finance
 Katerina Baxevanis Program Assistant             EASTR    Legal
 Peishen Wang        Environmental Specialist     EACCF    Environment
 Xiaoping Li         Procurement Specialist       EACCF    Procurement
 Zhefu Liu           Social Dev. Specialist       EACCF    Social and Resettlement
 Yi Dong             Financial Mgt. Specialist    EACCF    Financial Management
 Xin Chen            Program Assistant            EACCF    Project administration
 Louis Stanley
 Thompson            Consultant                            Railway policy and strategy

 Jitendra Sondhi     Consultant                            Engineering / Operations
 Richard Spero       Consultant                            Economist / Finance Analyst

Supervision/ICR
 Graham Smith      Lead Transport Specialist     EASTE     Task Team Leader (2002-2004)
 John Scales       Sr. Transport Specialist      EASTE     Task Team Leader (2004-2007)
 Richard Bullock   Consultant                    EASTE     Economist / Finance Analyst
 Jitendra Sondhi   Consultant                    EASTE     Engineering / Operations
 Yao Songling      Social Specialist             EASCS     Social and Resettlement
 Wang Peishen      Environment Specialist        EASCS     Environment
 Paul Amos         Transport Advisor             EASTE     Railway policy and strategy
 Wu Lei            Program Assistant             EASTE     Project administration



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                            0                            0
  FY03                                          12                           72.7
  FY04                                          29                          210.6
  FY05
  FY06
  FY07
  FY08
                            Total:              41                          283.3


                                              21

Supervision/ICR
 FY03                          0      0
 FY04                          0      0
 FY05                          9     66.8
 FY06                          9     43.3
 FY07                          8     42.4
 FY08                          7     88.6
                   Total:     33    241.1




                            22

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Hangzhou-Zhuzhou (Zhe-Gan) railway line is the first 200km railway road financed by
the World Bank Load. Through both parties' efforts, we achieve a great success of the
project we never had before. Zhe-Gan railway line has already put into operation on
September 15, 2006. Almost 2 years passed, Zhe-Gan line operates well with its high
safety including the key equipments installed on the line which including communication,
signal and electrification equipments financed by The World Bank loan. There is no
doubt that the Bank loan plays an important role on this project. Other important thing we
must mention here is that both sides developed rich experience for the future Bank loan
projects, such as Shijiazhuang-Zhengzhou passenger dedicated line and Guizhou-
Guangzhou Railway line.

Finally, we would like take this opportunity to thank all the task team of Bank who gave
us full support and help during the entire period of the project. We can not achieve such
success without full support and effort from the bank staffs. I wish with my heart the
cooperation between MOR and the World Bank will have bright tomorrow.




                                             23

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan*, (English version is available on March 16, 2004)

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoire, December 9, 2002
Aide Memoire, March 12, 2003
Aide Memoire, July 18, 2003
Aide Memoire, November 4, 2003
Aide Memoire, November 25, 2003
Aide Memoire, March 5, 2004
Aide Memoire, April 5, 2004
Aide Memoire, August 17, 2004
Aide Memoire, November 15, 2004
Aide Memoire, April 20, 2005
Aide Memoire, February 17, 2006
Aide Memoire, November 22, 2006
Aide Memoire, August 31, 2007

C. Other
Proposal on Zhe-Gan line, January 2003
Loan Agreement between People's Republic of China and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, October 18, 2004
Revised economic and financial data, November 10, 2003
Organizational Chart, March 16, 2003
Bid Evaluation Report and Recommendation for Award of Contract, September, 2005

Environment
1. Executive Summary of Environmental Assessment*, Second Railway Survey and
   Design Institute, Ministry of Railways, February 20, 2004
2. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)*, the Second Railway Survey and Design
   Institute, Ministry of Railways, February 20, 2004
3. Environmental Management Plan (EMP)*, the Second Railway Survey and Design
   Institute, Ministry of Railways, February 20, 2004
4. Executive Summary of Environmental Assessment*, Second Railway Survey and
   Design Institute, Ministry of Railways, March 2, 2004
5. Executive Summary of Environmental Assessment*, Second Railway Survey and
   Design Institute, Ministry of Railways, March 9, 2004
6. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)*, the Second Railway Survey and Design
   Institute, Ministry of Railways, March 9, 2004
7. Environmental Management Plan (EMP)*, the Second Railway Survey and Design
   Institute, Ministry of Railways, March 9, 2004
8. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)*, the Second Railway Survey and Design
   Institute, Ministry of Railways, November 21, 2005




                                           24

Resettlement
1. Resettlement Action Plan*, Ministry of Railways, February 19, 2004
2. Resettlement Action Plan (Chinese version), Ministry of Railways, March 9, 2004
3. Resettlement Action Plan (English version), Ministry of Railways, East China
   Investigation and Design Institute under State Power Corporation, March 2004
4. Resettlement Action Plan, Ministry of Railways, May 20, 2004
5. Resettlement Monitoring & Evaluation Report*, Southwest Jiaotong University, June,
   2005


Audit Report
1. Audit Report [2007] No.74, Audit Service Center of China National Audit Office for
   Foreign Loan and Assistance Projects, June 29, 2007
2. Audit Report [2008] No.52, Audit Service Center of China National Audit Office for
   Foreign Loan and Assistance Projects, June 27, 2008


* Including electronic files




                                          25

                                        CHINA
            RAILWAY NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                      HARBIN
                                                                                                         M O N G O L I A
                                                                                CHINA

                               BAO-LAN RAILWAY LINE

                               NATIONAL RAILWAY SYSTEM:

                                EXISTING DOUBLE TRACK                                                                                                                          CHANGCHUN                       Jilin
                                EXISTING SINGLE TRACK                                                                                                                                               J I L I N
                                UNDER CONSTRUCTION SINGLE TRACK

                                                                                                                  N E I M O N G O L
                                MAJOR RIVERS

                                SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                  LIAONING
                                PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                       SHENYANG                    Fushun
                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                          Anshan
                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEM.
                                                                                                 HOHHOT
                                                                                                 HOHHO                                                                                                     PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                             REP. OF
                                                                                       Huang                 Datong      BEIJING
                                                                                                                               BEIJING            Tangshan                                                    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                     Dalian
                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN        Bo Hai
                                                                                                                         H E B E I          TIANJIN


                                                                              YINCHUAN                                      SHIJIAZHUANG
                                                                                                        TAIYUAN

                                                                      NINGXIA                                                                JINAN
                                                    XINING                                              S H A N X I                     S H A N D O N G                                        Yellow
                                                                 LANZHOU
                                                                  ANZHOU                                                         Huang
                                              Huang                                                                                                                                                Sea
                    Q I N G H A I

                                                      G A N S U                   Baoji                    Luoyang        ZHENGZHOU
                                                                                                                              GZHOU                 Xuzhou        JIANGSU
                                                                                              XI'AN        H E N A N
                                                                                   S H A A N X I
                                                                                                                                                 NANJING
                                                                                                                                           HEFEI                                       Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                         A N H U I                                                  SHANGHAI

              GNAZIX                                                                                     H U B E I

                                              S I C H U A N                                   ChangJiang                         WUHAN                          HANGZHOUGZHOU

                        Jinsha                        CHENGDU                                                                                                            Z H E J I A N G

           Nu                                                                        CHONGQING
                                                                                 CHONGQING
                                                                                                                              NANCHANG

                                                                                                        H U N A N          CHANGSHA                                                                           East
                                                                                                                  Zhouzhou                                                                                  China
                       Lancang                                                G U I Z H O U                                       J I A N G X I                                                               Sea
                                                                    Liupanshui   GUIYANG                                                                F U J I A N                       FUZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                          FUZHOU

                                                          Xuanwei
                                        Jinsha


                                                        Zhanyi
                                               KUNMING        Qujing
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN
                     Nu
                                    Y U N N A N                                            G U A N G X I               G U A N G D O N G

                                                                                                                              GUANGZHOU
                                                                                                                                      GZHOU
                                                                                                                    Xun
                                 Lancang                                                                                               Shenzhen

                                                                                              NANNING                         Kowloon   HONG KONG
                                                                                                                               MACAO


                                                                 VIETNAM
           MYANMAR                                                                                                                              0         100         200       300 Kilometers


                                              LAO PEOPLE'S                                                    HAIKOU
                                                                                                                  OU                            0                100                200                  300 Miles

                                                  DEM. REP.                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
AUGUST                                                                                               HAINAN                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank          IBRD
                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
             THAILAND                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                              35662
      2007                                                                                108°                         112°                             116°                                                   120°

                                                   CHINA
                           SECOND NATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                 R U S S I A N
                                  RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                    Heilong
                                                                                                    CHINA                                                                                                           F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jiang

                                       ZHE-GAN RAILWAY LINE


                                       NATIONAL RAILWAY SYSTEM:

                                            EXISTING DOUBLE TRACK

                                            EXISTING SINGLE TRACK

                                            UNDER CONSTRUCTION SINGLE TRACK


                                            MAJOR RIVERS

                                            SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                                    H E I L O N G J I A N G
                                            PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                       HARBIN




                                                         M O N G O L I A                                                                                                                                                      Jilin

                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHANGCHUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J I L I N

                                                                                                                            N E I      M O N G O L
                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIAONING

                                                                                                                                                                                          SHENYANG                 Fushun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40°N

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Anshan              DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PEOPLE'S                    Sea of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REP. OF
                                                                                                              HOHHOT                                                                                                                                      Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KOREA
                                                                                              Huang                              Datong BEIJING
                                                                                                                                             BEIJING                 Tangshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dalian
                                                                                                                                                              TIANJIN

                                                                                                                                      H E B E I               TIANJIN           Bo Hai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KOREA               36°N
                                                                                    YINCHUAN                                              SHIJIAZHUANG

                                                                                                                   TAIYUAN
                                                                                                                   TAIYUAN


                                                                              NINGXIA                                                                           JINAN
                                                           XINING
                                                                                                                 S H A N X I                             S H A N D O N G                                             Yellow

                                                                        LANZHOU                                                                Huang                                                                   Sea
                                                   Huang

                  Q I N G H A I
                                                                                                                            Luoyang
                                                             G A N S U                                                                 ZHENGZHOU                      Xuzhou      JIANGSU                                                                             32°N
                                                                                                                     H E N A N
                                                                                          S H A A NXI'ANI
                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                                                                        NANJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                      HEFEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                          A N H U I                                                       SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                  H U B E I
                                                   S I C H U A N                                     Chang Jiang                               WUHAN                               HANGZHOU                                                         East
                            Jinsha                             CHENGDU                                                                                                                 Z H E J I A N G                                                                28°N
            XIZANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  China
                                                                                            CHONGQING                                                                                                                                               Sea
         Nu
                                                                                        CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                NANCHANG

                                                                                                                H U N A N               CHANGSHA                                       For Detail, See
                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33202

                                                                                                                               Zhouzhou
                           Lancang                                                  G U I Z H O U                                              J I A N G X I
                                                                                                                                                                          F U J I A N                  FUZHOU
                                                                                GUIYANG

                                             Jinsha                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24°N




                                                                 KUNMING                                                                                                                                           TAIWAN
                         Nu                                                                                                        G U A N G D O N G
                                       Y U N N A N                                               G U A N G X I
                                                                                                                                           GUANGZHOU

                                     Lancang                                                       NANNING                      Xun
                                                                                                                                                        Shenzhen
                                                                                                                                                          Kowloon

                                                                                                                                               MACAO        HONG KONG                                                                                                 20°N


                  ANMAR                                                VIETNAM                                                                                                                                    0     100    200    300 Kilometers



                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0         100         200            300 Miles
                       MY
                                               LAO PEOPLE'S                                                              HAIKOU
                                                    DEM. REP.                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                       IBRD
                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
MA         THAILAND                                                                                          HAINAN                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any      PHILIPPINES
  Y                                                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                             33201
   2004
                                                                                                  108°                              112°                                   116°                                          120°                                   124°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEDERATION
                                                                                                                     CHINA                                                          KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                             SECOND NATIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                                        MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JILIN                 Sea

                                                                                                              ZHE-GAN RAILWAY LINE                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                    KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                     REP.                                                        MONGOL               LIAONING D.P.R. OF         Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                               XINJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEI                                   KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HEBEI TIANJIN             REP. OF          JAPAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANDONG        Yellow
                                                                                   ELECTRIFICATION OF RAIL LINE                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                QINGHAI                              SHANXI                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NINGXIA                               JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GANSU        SHAANXI   HENAN
                                                                                   EXISTING RAILROAD                                PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                         ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHANGHAI      E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                    XIZANG                                   INGArea of Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HUBEI
                                                                                   ROADS                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                SICHUAN                                              ZHEJIANG     C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NGQ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHO                                                  S e a
                                                                                                                                    RIVERS                                                                                                      HUNAN                 FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                          National Capital                                                     JIANGXI     TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YUNNAN                             GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                          Province Boundaries                             GUANGXI                                  P h i l i p p i n e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                          International Boundaries                                         MACAO                         S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                 B a y  o f              LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.D.R.              HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                B e n g a l                                                                       PHILIPPINES




                             H U N A N

     Zhouzhou            K940


                                                                                                                                                                                                               HANGZHOU

                                                                                                         NANCHANG  J I A N G X I

                                                                                                                                                                         Z H E J I A N G
                               K900



                                                                                                    K600
                                                                   K800



                                                                           K700
                                                                                                                                                                                                            K100




                                                                                                                         K500
                                                                                                                                                 K500
                                                                                                                                                                 K300       K200




This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 2004

