Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18759
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3542-ME)
December 28, 1998
Mexico Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Peso (N$)
US$1.00   =  9.9 New Pesos (December, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
CIMO        Multiple Support Service Program to MSMEs (Programa de Capacitaci6n
Industrial de Mano de Obra, re-named in 1992 Programa de Calidad Integral y
Modernizaci6n)
DGE        General Directorate for Employment (Direcci6n General de Empleo)
DGIT        General Directorate for Information and Telecommunications (Direcci6n General
de Informaci6n y Telecomunicaciones)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
CGPEET         General Coordination Unit for Labor Market Policies, Studies and Statistic
(Coordinaci6n General de Politicas, Estudios, y Estadisticas del Trabajo)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDB       Inter American Development Bank
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INEGI        National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografla e
Informdtica)
MSMEs         Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises
NAFIN        National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera S.N. C.)
NAFTA        North American Free Trade Agreement (Tratado de Libre Comercio de America del
Norte)
PILEOT        Project of Local Initiatives for Employment and Temporary Jobs (Proyecto de
Iniciativas Locales de Empleo y Ocupaci6n Temporal)
PROBECAT          Labor Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para Trabajadores)
PROSSE         Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales Esenciales)
SEP       Public Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica)
SNE       National Employment Service (Servicio Nacional de Empleo)
SEE       State Employment Services (Servicios Estatales de Empleo)
STPS        Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (Secretaria de Trabajo y Previsi6n Social)
UPCs        Regional Productivity Support Units (Unidades Promotoras de Competitividad)
Vice President         Shavid Javed Burki
Director               Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director       Xavier Coll
Staff Member           Anna Sant'Anna



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3542-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ............................................... IV
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................                                                 VI
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................I
PROJECT BACKGROUND ................................................I
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ..........2.....................................2
Original Objectives........................ ....................-                                                 2
Assessment of Original Project Objectives ........2.....................................2
Original Project Design and Organization ..............................................3
Changes ..............................................4
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD .................4......4
Proroductiiit Enhancement ..4...................4
Labor Mark-et Adjustment ..............................................                         .6
Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening ..............................7................        .7
Procuremient of Goods and Services .............................................                             10
ACHIEV EMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES ...............................................                             10
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...............................................                             12
Factors not subject to Government control ............................................. 12
Factors suibject to Government control .............................................                         12
Factors subject to the control of the implementation agency .............................................    12
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................                                          12
BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................... 12
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................... 13
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................... 13
LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................                                                 14
FUTURE OPERATIONS ............................................... 15
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES ...............................................                                        16
Appendixes: A.    Mission's Aide Memoire
B.    Government's Contribution to the ICR
C.   Government's Comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3542-ME)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) assesses the implementation and
results of the Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project in Mexico, for which
Loan 3542-ME, in the amount US$174 million equivalent, was approved by the Board on
December 15, 1992. The Legal Agreements were signed on December 18, 1992 and the
loan became effective on March 11, 1993. In 1995, in response to Mexico's economic
crisis, both the IDB and the Bank agreed to finance a two-year Program of Essential Social
Services (PROSSE) to protect priority programs for the poor. One of the components of
PROSSE provided financing for retraining and employment generation, expanding
considerably the activities that were being financed through Loan 3542-ME. The present
evaluation assesses the implementation and impact of the original loan, but also takes into
account the broader context of the expanded program, which was financed in parallel
through PROSSE.
Loan 3542-ME was closed on June 30, 1998. The final disbursement took place on
September 3, 1998. The total amount of the loan disbursed was US$174.0 million and the
total project cost amounted to US$313.6 million. The Loan provided 55 percent of total
project cost (compared to 49 estimated at appraisal), and the contributions from the Federal
Government, the State Governments, and from private enterprises represented respectively
28, 13, and 4 percent, compared to the following shares estimated at appraisal: 32, 5 and 14
percent respectively. The State Governments contributed with US$12.2 million of the
Borrower total share of US$99.2 million.
The ICR was prepared by Nydia Maraviglia (LCSHD Consultant) after the final
supervision mission that took place in February 9 to 13, 1998. The mission consisted of
Mari Minowa (LCHSD Task Manager and mission leader), Hong Tan (PSDBE principal
economist), Mauricio Mathov (ISGIS, information specialist), and Nydia Maraviglia
(LCSHD Consultant). The Aide Memoire for that mission is included as Appendix A. This
ICR is based on the findings of the project completion mission, documents in the project
file including several evaluation studies based on specially designed surveys, and interviews



v
with Government officials, representatives of private enterprises and relevant Bank staff.
The last mission Aide-Memoire is included as Appendix A. The ICR was reviewed by
Carmen Hamann (Sector Leader, LCHSD/LCC1C) and Anna Sant'Anna (Sector
Coordinator, LCC1C). The Borrower prepared its own evaluation of project execution,
which is available in the project file as indicated in Appendix B. The Borrower was
requested to comment on the Bank ICR and the response has been incorporated into the
text.



vi
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3542-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
In the early 1980's the Government of Mexico developed a number of
employment related programs reflecting a strong commitment to build up its human
capital in the context of a free market oriented strategy. These programs, consisting of
registration of job seekers and vacancies, career counseling, referral, placements, and
training, were run mainly through the National Employment Services (SNE) and its
network of State Employment Services (SEEs) of the Secretariat of Labor and Social
Welfare (STPS). The STPS is, by law, the leading institution in matters related to
employment, labor market regulations, in-service training, productivity and working
conditions. It was responsible for the National Training and Productivity Program and a
for the National Agreement for Increased Quality and Productivity signed by the
Government in 1992 with representatives of business and labor. This is the background
against which this project was developed. Labor force skills increased as a result of
improvements in literacy (now at 90 percent) and in school attendance. Nevertheless, the
need for further enhancement in workers' skills keeps increasing as a consequence of the
rapid liberalization of the economy and growing competition with labor markets in
developed countries, particularly after the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA).
Project Objectives and Description
The objective of the proposed project was to assist the Government of Mexico in
promoting private sector-led growth and in easing the costs of labor mobility and labor
market adjustment.  This was to be achieved by increasing productivity and
competitiveness, by reducing the costs of hiring and job search, by training displaced and
unemployed workers (particularly women), by improving labor market information, and
by designing, evaluating, and implementing relevant policies and programs in the sector.
The project consisted of three main components: (a) Productivity Enhancement (28



vii
percent of total costs) aimed at improving productivity and competitiveness of medium,
small and micro enterprises (MSMEs), by expanding the coverage and scope of the
Multiple Support Service Program to MSMEs (CIMO) while strengthening coordination
with other programs, and by promoting the gradual privatization of CIMO; (b) Labor
Market Adjustment (61 percent of total costs) was designed to improve the coverage of
the SEEs and provide education and training opportunities for displaced workers; and (c)
Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening (11 percent of total costs) aimed
at improving the availability, timeliness and dissemination of labor market information
and strengthening institutional capacity to design, operate and evaluate labor market
policies and programs.
A major factor that changed the scope of the overall Labor and Productivity
Enhancement Program (of which this project was a part) was the approval, in 1995, of the
Program of Essential Social Services (PROSSE). This program was a two-year time slice
operation supporting the highest priority social sectors programs. Large items of the
project budget for 1995 and 1996, were allocated to PROSSE, thus freeing funds for
CIMO expansion.
Implementation Experience and Results'
Productivity Enhancement. The CIMO program operated on the basis of four
main principles applied according to need: (a) identifying opportunities within the
enterprises to improve productivity, quality and competitiveness; (b) preparing joint
training programs by grouping enterprises by sector and needs; (c) reorganizing work and
production to ensure quality;  and (d) encouraging enterprise connections and/or
integration of productive processes to increase MSMEs product quality and
competitiveness. During the project period (1993-1997), 76 percent of CIMO assistance
was for micro-enterprises, 17 percent for small firms, and 7 percent for medium
enterprises. Program coverage increased from 29 existing Regional Productivity Support
Units (UPC) to 62 units and sub-units (a substantial change from the original plan of
adding only 5 units) and promoters increased from 89 to 206. By mid-1994 the demand
for employment enhancement activities increased further as a result of the economic
crisis and the approval of NAFTA. PROSSE financing of other project components
allowed a large increase in CIMO activities between 1995 and 1997. Overall, during the
whole project period, almost 1.5 million workers attended about 120,000 training and
related events. The quality of CIMO services evolved from simply responding to
enterprise requests, to a careful diagnosis of needs and problems prior to providing
assistance. CIMO has also helped develop, in a number of the enterprises it assisted, a
culture of seeking and using technical assistance and training for their workers, and
establishing links with other enterprises to maximize production efficiency and improve
earnings. CIMO also became a facilitator in developing skills in technical assistance and
'It should be noted that, in addition to inputs from this loan, the implementation described below includes
49,500 training activities and 800,000 fellowships under PROBECAT, that were financed by the PROSSE
project during 1995 and 1996.



viii
training in the regions where these did not exist. The program is now continuing with
financing from an IDB loan.
Labor Market Adjustment. In 1992, after ten years of operation, the SEEs still
had a limited capacity to effectively improve the operations of labor markets. There was a
clear need for improvements in organization and information, and administration of the
Labor Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para Trabajadores -
PROBECAT). This component was implemented on the basis of strategies that included
promoting complementarity in labor related assistance, installing better information
systems and making improvements in worker training, retraining and placement. To
promote complementarity, the program established Executive Committees of
Employment Services, formed by representatives of enterprises, training agencies and
other labor market agents.  During the project period, 65 such committees were
established, greatly exceeding the target of 32. Since 1993, these committees, together
with the SEEs, served almost 2.5 million job seekers, advertised about 2 million
vacancies and resulted in employment of almost 600,000 workers. These numbers
represent, respectively, 132, 99 and 93 percent of the original goals. In addition, SEEs
issued labor bulletins, sponsored employment fairs, opened information windows, and
operated mobile units for greater outreach.
The PROBECAT program and the Project of Local Initiatives for Employment
and Temporary Jobs (Proyecto de Iniciativas Locales de Empleo y Ocupaci6n Temporal -
PILEOT) programs included four training models. These were: (a) basic training for
productive activities (in a school environment); (b) mixed training (in schools and
enterprises); (c) re-training and re-conversion; and (d) training for self-employment.
These programs had a very rapid growth in recent years, as a result of the injection of
considerable funding by the Government and by the Bank, both through this project and
through PROSSE. From 1992 to 1997 the annual number of fellowships granted went
from 42,000 to over 500,000 - more than a ten-fold increase. In addition, training in
PILEOT benefited around 550,000 workers with a mix of basic school education, literacy
classes and work related training. However, this mixed approach did not give satisfactory
results, due to, among other factors, the low level of income and education of the trainees,
which resulted in high desertion rates.
Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening. An information system
was developed to handle data on employment, salaries and benefits, education, training,
and technology, as well as on collective bargaining agreements and other information
relevant to labor market regulations.  In 1993, the system was developed using
DATAFLEX, but in 1995 data storage showed signs of saturation and sluggishness. In
January 1996, a change was made to INFORMIX ON-LINE. The General Directorate for
Information and Telecommunications (DGIT) of the STPS, responsible for the system
since 1995, introduced INTERNET and INTRANET for external and internal
communications respectively. The systems provide, inter alia, information on vacancies,
job seekers, training courses, and fellowships. Since the information is available
nationwide, it has made possible to identify the most serious regional or local



ix
occupational imbalances and take decisions on training that are responsive to specific
local needs.
Several surveys and studies (listed in Annex 6) were carried out through this
project. The main surveys were conducted in coordination with the National Institute of
Statistics (INEGI). Study topics included organization of enterprises, management and
labor conditions, determinants of productivity and international comparisons, the
informal sector and agriculture employment. Of particular relevance to this project were
the CIMO, PROBECAT and PILEOT studies. After an evaluation of PROBECAT
conducted in 1994, it was decided that the 1995 and 1996 evaluations would concentrate
on the program variations comprising training for self-employment and support to local
initiatives, rather than continuing with global evaluations. The first evaluation of PILEOT
intended to determine the extent to which training does facilitate self-employment and the
second evaluation assessed the program contribution to the consolidation of productive
projects developed through local initiatives, measuring the impact on income and
employability of fellowship recipients.
Assessment of Outcome
Overall, the project amply met most of the targets set as intermediate objectives,
provided a strong background for program changes and, most importantly, gave impetus
to labor force modernization while facilitating employment of hundreds of thousands of
unemployed workers during a period of economic crisis. Weaknesses in implementation
included insufficient monitoring of training and weak enforcement of program standards
by state level and local management. The studies constituted commendable efforts in
evaluation of the major programs. CIMO, PROBECAT and PILEOT, resulting in many
analyses and findings, but there were weaknesses in the administration of research.
Intermediate targets met included: (a) improving the coverage and scope of
CIMO; (b) strengthening coordination between CIMO and other institutions rendering
support to enterprises; (c) strengthening the SEEs and improving the quality and
availability of information on local and regional labor markets; (d) providing improved
re-training for displaced and unemployed workers; and (e) introducing, on a pilot basis,
an education and training program for under-qualified rural migrants. Furthermore, some
of the targets were extensively surpassed. During the project period, almost 1.5 million
workers attended 120,000 training and ancillary events.  The project successfully
developed information systems, strengthened STPS manpower and promoted labor
related studies and research within the academic community.
Other objectives were only partially met or not fulfilled at all. For instance, the
CIMO study (from the 1995 survey) indicates that the enterprises assisted by the program
showed lower gains in labor productivity and value-added when compared with the
control group. Although CIMO enterprises registered increasing profits, these increases
were smaller than those in the control group. As another example, the proposed gradual
privatization of CIMO in financing and operations was not realized. Private sector



x
contributions to CIMO were lower than the targets initially proposed (44 percent of total
costs compared to a goal of 85 percent for training costs and 60 percent for technical
assistance). The ambitious plan of transforming enterprise organizations (chambers and
associations) into privately owned centers of enterprise modernization had not been
achieved at project completion. Only 19 UPCs were formally incorporated into enterprise
associations, but they were still dependent from STPS for financing and technical
support.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The economic crisis that affected Mexico in 1995 increased unemployment and
placed considerable pressure on the STPS programs. The Government and the labor
agency responded appropriately to the crisis by requesting more international assistance,
increasing the budget allocations for these programs and making other changes. Except
for some delays in budget allocations at the beginning, this project was well funded by
the Government, even during periods of economic stress, because of its expected effects
in alleviating the unemployment problem. The STPS confronted problems in
administering and controlling the quality of some surveys and studies. Although many of
the studies provided guidance for future program changes and for improving research
design, in some instances, methodological flaws clouded the analysis and conclusions.
Stronger and more diverse technical assistance in establishing and implementing the
research p gram would have been a worthwhile investment. Also, closer monitoring by
state and local level staff regarding selection of program beneficiaries and closer
adherence to program standards could have increased the quality of the programs and
their impact.
Summary of Findings
While it was found that the enterprises assisted by CIMO experienced many
qualitative improvements in organization, management and incentives to staff, the
statistical analysis showed lower gains in labor productivity and value-added among
CIMO supported enterprises, when compared with the control group. It should be noted,
however, that the surveys on which these results are based were taken in 1995, when
many changes in program design were still to be made.
PROBECAT fellowships were found to be a good tool for facilitating
employment of job seekers with specific characteristics. Young workers receiving
training in a school environment, were able to recover training costs after 9 to 17 months
of work, but participants between 26 to 55 years of age with recent work experience, were
unable to recover the costs of training. However, considering that another objective of
PROBECAT is to help equalize labor income, the program may have helped shorten the
length of employment search for those who, prior to the training, were at a disadvantage
in comparison with the average unemployed worker. This is particularly the case of
women. The first PILEOT study on self-employment showed increases in earnings after
training (10.5 percent for men and 25 percent for women) although 40 percent spent



xi
about 7 months searching for employment before beginning gainful occupations. The
self-employed group grew from 27.7 percent to 35.4 percent as a result of the training,
but for the overall group of trainees, only 29 percent became self-employed after training.
The income of participants in PILEOT improved only slightly, from 1.3 to 1.4 times the
minimum salary, after work related training and only 21 percent were found to be
working when they were interviewed after training. These low results were in part a
consequence of poor selection of trainees (fellowships were sought as a source of income
or were given for political reasons). These results have been taken into account in
program adjustments.
Overall, through participation in PROBECAT (excluding PILEOT), a total of
947,715 trainees applying for jobs, 730,441 (or 77 percent) obtained jobs after training.
These results compare favorably with direct job search (without training) which resulted
in 586,591 placements among 2,140,299 job seekers (or 27 percent success) or with
employment fairs (16 percent success). The study indicated the need for improvements in
targeting the unemployed that would benefit most from the program. Two thirds of the
trainees were employed after training. Labor earnings increased by about 20 percent
among those trainees who had a job before training (25 percent for women and 15.5
percent for men). These increases were larger than those observed among workers
earning the minimum wage.
Ct cerning the PILEOT program in rural areas, results were generally of low
significance in relation to the program objectives. There were no significant differences
in labor earnings before and after the program. There were problems in monitoring and in
selecting program participants. A few participant groups (21 percent of the total sample)
were seriously committed and engaged in income generating activities after training.
These groups (which included a total of 72 persons), were interviewed in-depth to
determine the characteristics necessary for success. In most cases, the successful groups
were long established, having been formed two to nine years prior to the training. In
contrast, the other groups participating in the program had been together for a few months
or a few days before program inception and showed no great interested in improving
production. In general, only two groups indicated improvement in quality of their
products or other benefits. Continuation with programs of this type would require a
complete reformulation of its design and operation.
It should be emphasized that the studies gave, in many instances, only tentative
results because of methodological flaws. A more definitive judgment on these programs
should await more carefully designed analysis and more recent data. New studies would
need to focus on measuring program costs in relation to benefits, effects on productivity,
and on the extent to which program participants fared better than they would have
without the program.



xii
Key Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from this project are summarized below by major
programs. With respect to the CIMO program, the following is noted: (a) CIMO would
need to focus much more on guiding enterprises toward productivity and client related
issues; (b) In order to make enterprises self-sufficient regarding technical assistance and
worker training, CIMO would need to advise firms on concrete steps they should take to
identify and use relevant and effective training programs for continued staff development
and how to access proficient and affordable technical advice; (c) Most of CIMO
assistance has been for micro and small enterprises (only 7 percent were medium size
firms), yet this group obtained lower benefits than the medium enterprises from training
and technical assistance. This outcome indicates that CIMO should continue to cater to
small enterprises, but selection should follow strict criteria to determine real needs for the
assistance and the economic viability of the firm; (d) CIMO should introduce specific
targets, that can be easily monitored by the small firms to measure productive
performance of the firm and its workers, as well as changes in sales and value added; (e)
Training for small enterprises needs to emphasize production and commercialization of
goods and services, with preference to currently taught subjects such as administration,
accounting and finance.
With regard to the labor market adjustment programs (PROBECAT and
PILEOT), he following are the key lessons: (a) Best practices on how to open and
administer a business should be added to the training curriculum for workers receiving
training for self-employment, and course duration should be increased to 3 months; (b)
To enhance the impact of programs encouraging self-employment, prospective trainees
should be properly screened with respect to motivation for and financial capacity to open
their own business; (c) Women benefit from and make good use of the training programs
if they have economic dependents; (d) Young people with more than secondary education
are unlikely to seek self-employment or low-level employment after training, and should
be directed to other employment assistance programs; (e) Training programs for
unemployed workers should be continuously monitored to ensure relevance of contents,
selection standards, and desirable employment outcomes; (f) Although capable Mexican
institutions and individual consultants participated in this project, they were not well
experienced in the novel methodologies (not previously utilized in Mexico) that had been
proposed for studying the impacts on the program in the labor market. To minimize this
problem in the future, it is advisable that STPS engage in wide competition among
qualified institutions prior to appointment of consultants. These institutions should have
hands-on experience on difficult evaluation studies. It is also recommended that studies
be carefully supervised to ensure an acceptable final product; and (g) New studies need to
focus on measuring program costs in relation to benefits, effects on productivity, and the
extent to which program participants fared better than they would have without the
program.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3542-ME)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    Over the last four decades the sector distribution of the labor force in Mexico has
substantially changed. The share of primary sector workers fell from about 58 percent in 1950 to
23 percen?t in 1991, while employment in the manufacturing and services increased more than
threefold, to 74 percent. These two sectors account currently for about 90 percent of GDP.
There have been significant migration flows toward urban areas and high-income states in
response to ne>. job opportunities. The skill level of the labor force has increased as a result of
improvements in literacy (currently near 90 percent) and school attendance (75 percent of young
adults 20-29 years old finished primary school). Nevertheless, the need for further enhancement
in workers' education and skills keeps growing as a consequence of the rapid liberalization of the
economy and growing competition with labor markets in developed countries, particularly after
the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
2.    Since the early 1980's the Government of Mexico developed a number of employment
related programs which reflected a strong commitment to build up its human capital in the
context of a free market oriented strategy. These programs are run mainly by the Secretariat of
Labor and Social Welfare (STPS), through the National Employment Services (Servicio
Nacional de Empleo - SNE) and its network of State Employment Services (Servicios Estatales
de Empleo - SEEs). Services offered include registration of job seekers and vacancies, career
counseling, referrals, placements, and training. New programs were established in the late 1980s
and early 1990: the Education Modernization Program (1989-94); the Industrial Modernization
and Export Program (1990-94); the Modernization Development Program for Micro, Small and
Medium Sized Industries (1991-94); and the National Training and Productivity Program (1990-
94). The STPS is, by law, the leading institution in matters related to employment, labor market
regulations, in-service training, productivity and working conditions. The STPS was made
responsible for the National Training and Productivity Program and a National Agreement for
Increased Quality and Productivity signed by the Government with representatives of business
and labor in 1992.



2
3.    At the time of project appraisal, the main labor market issues facing Mexico were: (a)
sluggish labor productivity growth compared to other developing countries at similar levels of
economic development and to developed countries (these differences could be in part associated
with less post-school investment in human capital); (b) unemployment and labor mobility,
including higher unemployment than reported due to omission of rural areas, widespread under-
employment, and low employment stability; (c) limited capacity of the labor market to absorb
new entrants in the labor force and migrant flows from rural areas; and (d) constraints in
monitoring and policy-making capacity by labor market agencies, associated with limited
information for analysis of labor market issues.
4.    The project concept was based on four main strategies. First, to promote the active
participation of the private sector in training and labor productivity enhancement activities.
Second, to support training for displaced workers to facilitate adaptation to new technologies and
changes in production methods. Third, to provide technical assistance to medium and small and
micro enterprises aimed at increasing productivity, quality, efficiency and growth. Fourth, to
improve data gathering, analysis, and dissemination of information among workers and
enterprises, as well as for policy-making.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Original Objectives
5.    The objective of the project was to assist the Government of Mexico in promoting private
sector-led growth and in easing the costs of labor mobility and labor market adjustment. This
objective was to be achieved by: (a) increasing the productivity and competitiveness of micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises; (b) reducing costs incurred by employees and employers in
hiring and job search; (c) providing education and training opportunities for displaced and
unemployed workers, with special attention to women; and (d) improving the availability,
timeliness, and dissemination of labor market information, and, more broadly, the capacity to
monitor labor market changes and to design, evaluate, and implement relevant policies and
programs in the sector.
Assessment of Original Project Objectives
6.    The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy of
supporting a shift in the Government's focus toward long-term development issues, such as
rationalization of the role of the public sector and increased private sector led growth. The
detailed objectives correctly identified the need to promote an increased participation of private
industry and service enterprises in worker training and in rising productivity. Indeed, in 1995
only 22 percent of those employed had received any special training and, prior to initiation of
this project, labor productivity growth in Mexico was 1.5 percent or one half to one fourth of the
grow experienced in developed countries. Furthermore, the objective of improving availability,
timeliness and dissemination of labor market information addressed an acute need to facilitate



3
employment search, both for workers and for firms. Finally, the project objective focused on
evaluation and policy development was well conceived, as it was expected to provide solid
evidence for the future development of labor market programs.
Original Project Design and Organization
7.    The project consisted of three main components:
a) Productivity Enhancement (28 percent of total costs) was intended to support activities
aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of medium, small and micro
enterprises (MSMEs) by: (a) extending the coverage of the pilot in-service training program
(a Multiple Support Service Program to MSMEs - CIMO) initiated under the Manpower
Training Project (Loan 2876-ME) in 1987, and expanding the scope of the support services
provided to MSMEs; (b) strengthening coordination between CIMO and other institutions
rendering support to MSMEs; and (c) promoting the gradual privatization of CIMO by
increasing the involvement of enterprise associations in financing, operation and gradual
transformation of Regional Productivity Support Units (Unidades Promotoras de
Competitividadt-UPCs). To achieve the latter goal, the project intended to increase the share
of training costs to be financed by the private sector, from an initial 65 percent, to 85 percent
at the end of the period. Additionally, private contribution for technical assistance to
enterprises would increase from 30 to 60 percent.
b) Labor Market Adjustment (61 percent of total costs) was designed to improve the coverage
of the SEEs and provide education and training opportunities for displaced workers, through:
(a) strengthening the operation and management of the SEEs, and improving the quality and
availability of information on local and regional labor markets; (b) providing improved re-
training programs for approximately 300,000 displaced and unemployed workers, meeting
stringent selection criteria; and (c) introducing, on a pilot basis, an education and training
program for under-qualified rural migrants who were ineligible for the regular re-training
program.
c) Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening (11 percent of total costs) aimed at
improving the availability, timeliness and dissemination of labor market information and
strengthening institutional capacity to design, operate and evaluate labor market policies and
programs, by: (a) supporting the development of an information system and the undertaking
of in-depth surveys to provide the basis for periodic and systematic labor market data
generation and analysis; (b) promoting an extensive program of studies and research on labor
market issues, programs and policies; (c) supporting regular publication and dissemination of
labor market information; (d) establishing a systematic framework for program evaluation;
and (e) helping strengthen STPS' management and technical capacity through human resource
development and modernization of the data management system.



4
Changes
8.    A major factor that changed the scope of the Labor and Productivity Enhancement
Program (of which this project was a part) was the approval of the Program of Essential Social
Services (PROSSE) in 1995. This program was designed as a two-year time slice operation
supporting the highest priority social sectors programs, including retraining and employment
generation. PROSSE was part of the assistance given to Mexico by the Bank, the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter American Development Bank (IDB), the United States
Government and other G-10 countries to minimize the negative impacts of the crisis that ensued
after the floating of the peso on December 20, 1994. PROSSE added a large amount
(approximately US$140.5 million) to the financial resources available to the employment sector.
In 1995 and 1996, two main items of the budget for the labor productivity enhancement program
(PROBECAT and PILEOT) were absorbed by PROSSE. This change freed funds for the
expansion of the CIMO program under Loan 3542-ME. In 1995, when the scope of the project
was modified, there were concerns on the part of the Bank that such a large expansion could
undermine the quality of the programs. However, the STPS was able to handle quite effectively
the transition to a much larger program.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
9.    The current section presents a record of the project activities from inception through loan
closing, in thL ollowing components: (a) Productivity Enhancement (CIMO); (b) Labor Market
Adjustment; and (c) Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening. This section describes
the implementation of the program by the STPS and includes, in addition to activities under Loan
3542-ME, 49,500 training activities and 800,000 fellowships under PROBECAT that were
financed by the PROSSE project during 1995 and 1996.
Productivity Enhancement
10.   The CIMO program operated on the basis of four main principles, applied according to
demand requirements: (a) identification of opportunities to improve productivity, quality and
competitiveness within the enterprises; (b) preparation of training programs for all occupational
categories in each enterprise, grouping enterprises according to minimum numbers required for
efficient utilization of training; (c) reorganization of production to ensure quality; and (d)
enhancement of the links between enterprises and providers, marketing agents and/or integration
of the productive processes, in order to assist micro, small and medium enterprises to achieve
appropriate product-quality and competitive levels of production, by specializing if necessary,
and by associating with complementary enterprises, and/or by participating in synchronized and
flexible production schemes. CIMO placed a greater emphasis in providing assistance to smaller
firms. During the project period, the assistance provided by CIMO was directed 76 percent to
micro 17 percent to small, and 7 percent to medium enterprises.
11.   The geographic coverage of the program grew from 29 existing training promotion units
(UPCs), to 54 units and 8 sub-units, a substantial change from the original plan of adding only 5



5
units, and the number of promoters increased from 89 to 206 (less were needed than estimated in
the original target of 250). Several UPCs are located in enterprise organizations (chambers and
associations) where they shared the physical space, telephones, fax, messenger services,
photocopy machines and utilities. This cooperation has proved useful, especially considering the
capacity of these organizations to convene meetings and transmit information to the affiliated
enterprises. The project provided additional furniture, computers, other office equipment and a
basic library to the UPCs. The original project design was intended to assist enterprise
organizations to assume, in time, a developmental role vis-a-vis individual enterprises, but this
proved difficult because of technical expertise constraints as well as the relatively high financial
inputs that would be needed for sustaining UPC functions. At project closing, 19 UPCs had been
fornally incorporated into enterprise organizations, although most of them continue to be
dependent from STPS for financing and technical support.
12.   During 1993-94 the project financed, through CIMO, about 17,000 events, of which
approximately 60 percent were for training and the remaining 40 percent consisted of technical
assistance activities. Approximately 225,000 workers belonging to some 80,000 enterprises
attended these events, and 25,000 additional enterprises received several other services. The
private sector contributed 55.7 percent of the cost of these activities. By mid-1994 it became
evident that the original program had been too conservative in relation to market needs. The
demand for employment enhancement activities had increased as a result of the 1995 economic
crisis and the approval of NAFTA. The Government responded to these new demands by
substantially expanding both PROBECAT and CIMO programs, with the assistance of the Bank
and IDB. Furthermore, a new program was created to serve the rural areas, PILEOT. Between
1995 and 1997, after approval of PROSSE, the all these programs experienced rapid growth.
Overall, almost 1.5 million workers attended about 120,000 events during the project period.
Private sector contributions amounted to 44 percent of the total costs.
13.   CIMO operated with enough flexibility to adapt the program to specific needs and
characteristics of various types of firms. While initially assistance was mainly determined on the
basis of needs expressed by enterprises, the program evolved and currently it bases its technical
assistance and training on a diagnosis of needs and problems of each firm. Prior to CIMO, micro
and small enterprises did not have a culture to seek and use technical assistance, to engage in
training activities for their workers, or to establish links with other enterprises to maximize
production efficiency and improve earnings. This situation has changed at the firms assisted by
the program. In some regions it was difficult to find individuals or firms that could provide
technical assistance or could enter into contracts to conduct training. To remedy this situation,
CIMO was able to contact firms in other regions (particularly in Mexico City, or other large
cities) to procure such services and has also undertaken the task of developing skills in technical
assistance and training in the regions where these did not exist. CIMO has also been
instrumental in determining appropriate levels of costs for these services, in general being able to
pay lower prices than those paid by the medium and large enterprises. It is a common occurrence
among firms receiving assistance from CIMO to continue on their own to use technical
assistance after the CIMO program is completed, although the extent to which this happens has
been difficult to quantify. After project completion, CIMO continues to operate with IDB
financing.



6
Labor Market Adjustment
14.  In 1992, after ten years of operation, the SEEs still had a limited capacity to effectively
assist in the operations of labor markets due to organizational and technical constraints. There
was a clear need for improvements in organization and in availability of information on labor
markets and in the administration of PROBECAT. There was also a need to seek training and
employment solutions for rural migrants to the cities, on a pilot basis. To address these needs,
the Labor Market Adjustment component was implemented based on four strategies:
(a) promoting complementarity among organizations or institutions participating in the labor
markets; (b) generating, using, and disseminating information on labor markets in order to
improve worker placement mechanisms and promote alternative types of employment; (c)
improving the training, retraining and occupational shifts for workers seeking employment; and
(d) increasing the efficiency of the General Directorate for Employment (DGE). The DGE
coordinated the implementation of this component at central level, and the SEEs were
responsible for operations at state level. The SEEs comprises a network of 99 offices offering
employment services in 83 cities and covering approximately 4,187 localities throughout the
country.
15.   To promote complementarity among agencies working on labor market issues, the
program established Executive Committees of Employment Services with representatives from
enterprises, training institutions and other agents. During the project period, 65 committees were
established, considerably exceeding the initial target of 32. These committees grouped 741
agents representing 161 chambers of commerce and enterprise associations, 177 enterprises, 152
government organizations, 209 training institutions, 19 unions, and 23 other agents. The
committees facilitated consultations on appropriate directions for re-training and placement
services, identification of training needs and curricula modernization, and guidelines for
improving the PROBECAT program to best respond to market needs. These committees,
together with the SEEs, have evolved into systems of state employment, which meet periodically
to exchange information, modus operandi, evaluation of labor market conditions, and
organization of promotion and dissemination events. The project equipped 50 SEE state offices
with computers connected in a network, and paid for contracts with information systems
technicians to administer the networks.  The project also financed individual computer
equipment for 51 SEEs. In 22 states, project assistance complemented the equipment provided
by the state Governments. SEE staff attended intensive training programs on operation of the
systems. Since 1993 when the system was installed, almost 2.5 million job seekers made
applications and about 2 million vacancies were advertised. These services contributed to the
employment of almost 600,000 workers. These numbers represent 132, 99 and 93 percent of the
original goals, respectively.
16.  In addition, 69 employment fairs were sponsored with participation of 1,832 enterprises,
where almost 100,000 vacancies were advertised, 130,300 job applications were made, and
approximately 21,000 applicants found a job. In 1995, the Bank agreed to the acquisition of 48
mobile units for the SEEs, an initiative not originally included in project design. These mobile
units considerably expanded the outreach area for placement services and for the selection of
applicants for the PROBECAT program. Another initiative of the project was the opening of 33



7
information windows in the SEEs, operated by trained staff. These windows offer advise on self-
employment and refer users to others sources of information operated by the Secretariat of
Commerce and Industrial Development and by Nacional Financiera SN. C (NAFIN).
17.   The project supported training and re-training of the labor force through the PROBECAT
and PILEOT programns. Although these programs were financed through PROSSE in 1995 and
1996, the implementation description covers the period from 1992 to project completion in 1997.
Four training models were used:  (a) basic training for productive activities in a school
environment; (b) mixed training in schools and enterprises; (c) re-training and re-conversion; and
(d) training for self-employment. These programs grew very rapidly in recent years, as a result of
the injection of considerable funding by the Government and by the Bank, both through this
project and through PROSSE. While PROBECAT growth was modest in the first to years of
project implementation (from 42,000 fellowships per year in 1992, to 46,000 in 1993), during
the 1994-1997 period, the number of fellowships per year increased from 200,000 in 1994, to
400,000 in 1995 and to over 500,000 in 1996 and 1997. In addition, training in PILEOT
benefited approximately 550,000 workers, who also received training for self-employment. An
attempt was made to provide basic education and literacy classes at the same time as work
related skills, but it proved less successful. Identification and recruitment of illiterate workers
eligible for training was very difficult and dropout rates were high due to the precarious
economic situation of the trainees and their low level of education. Lessons learned from these
experiences were used in assisting the same target population through other programs.
Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening
18.   This component was designed to improve the availability, timeliness and dissemination
of labor market information and strengthen the institutional capacity of STPS to design, operate
and evaluate labor market policies and programs. As part of the project, two programs were
implemented: (a) a program of labor information, studies, and strengthening of the STPS; and (b)
another program of support and evaluation of labor policies.
19.  Information System.  An information system was developed to handle data on
employment, salaries and benefits, education, training, and technology, as well as on collective
bargaining, agreements with union, and other information relevant to labor market regulations.
The project contributed substantially to the advancement of the design of this information
system. The system design was finalized in 1993. At that time, the system used DATAFLEX as
base. In 1995, data from surveys began to be entered into the system and soon the system
showed signs of saturation, as response times to consultations was extremely long. In January
1996 this activity was transferred from the General Directorate for Labor Statistics, to the
General Directorate for Information and Telecommunications (DGIT) and the system's base was
changed to INFORMIX ON-LINE. DGIT also introduced INTERNET and INTRANET for
communications outside and within STPS. During 1997, four hundred WEB pages were
generated in the address http:www.stps.gob.mx. The system provides information on vacancies,
job seekers, training courses available, and fellowships. These systems are in constant evolution,
using the latest information technology as it becomes available. Since the information provided



8
by the system is available nationwide, it makes it possible to identify the regional or local
employment imbalances and decide on training needs that respond to specific market conditions.
The project also supported the publication of an Information Bulletin, issued every two months,
with information on plans and results of training, labor market characteristics and trends, and
news on coordinating activities of public and private employment agencies. Between 1994 and
July 1997 the SEEs produced 473 issues of the Information Bulletin (or 73 percent of the original
goal). In eight SEEs, the state governments absorbed part of the production cost of this
publication.
20.   Surveys and Studies. A variety of surveys and studies were conducted through this
project (see Annex 6). National surveys were undertaken in coordination with the National
Institute of Statistics (INEGI). There were, however, extended delays in the surveys of
enterprises and households, and several had to be canceled. As of 1998, new collaborative
arrangements between STPS and INEGI were established, questionnaires for households were
simplified, and the timely presentation of survey results was introduced as a clause in the bidding
documents used for contracting surveys. As part of the extensive labor markets study program
supported by the project, 29 studies were completed on topics related to labor market
characteristics and the determinants of employment, salaries, and productivity. Among the
topics covered, the following were analyzed in detail: organization, management and labor
conditions of enterprises; socio-demographic aspects of employment, determinants of
productivity and international comparisons; the informal sector; and employment in agriculture.
As part of the project, the STPS also implemented a program to promote labor-related research
among the academic community. At project completion, there were 150 labor market specialists
in the network of researchers. Annual awards were given to the best studies and financial
assistance was granted for dissertation work dealing with relevant labor topics. The results of
these studies and surveys were used in re-directing and improving STPS programs. Of particular
relevance to this project were the studies of CIMO, PROBECAT and PILEOT, briefly described
below.
21.   The CIMO Evaluation. The CIMO study was based on the Enterprise Operations
Survey carried out between July and September, 1996, covering a sample of 1,367 enterprises, of
which 622 had received assistance from the program (pilot group) and other 745 enterprises did
not (control group). The information referred to the periods 1991-93 (Set I) and 1993-95 (Set II)
and it was disaggregated according to enterprise size (micro, small and medium) and to whether
the firms belonged to the manufacturing or the services sector. The Pilot Group had better
results than the Control Group with respect to organizational changes within the firm, value-
added from investments in training and technical assistance, and staff performance incentives.
However, none of these innovations had significant impacts on productivity of the labor force
and value-added of the enterprises. The Control Group showed more favorable results with
respect to value added derived from the introduction of quality control systems. This could be
an indication of greater interest among the Pilot Group enterprises in improving internal
efficiency, while firms in the Control Group might have focused primarily on increasing the
quality of their products or services. Micro and small enterprises and manufacturing firms in the
Pilot Group showed lower utilization of installed capacity compared to firms in the Control
Group. Although these results need to be confirmed through further analysis, they seem to



9
indicate that CIMO might need to modify its targeting criteria and its strategy to improve
productivity of MSMEs.
22.   The Evaluations of PROBECAT and PILEOT. The PROBECAT program includes
both basic (school) training and training for productive activities, or "mixed training." The
program was evaluated in 1994. After that evaluation, the STPS decided to redirect its
evaluation efforts in 1995 and 1996 to two variations introduced to the program, namely: training
for self-employment and support to local initiatives. In both instances, control groups of
unemployed persons were compared with persons who received PROBECAT fellowships. In
general, fellowships were found to be an effective tool to facilitate the process of obtaining a job.
At the same time, specific factors were found to either hinder or help the achievement of the
program objectives, and these findings were subsequently used to improve the program. For
those receiving training in a school environment, cost recovery was achieved after 9 to 17
months of taking gainful employment. On the other hand, for those persons who were 26 to 55
years of age and had recent work experience, the costs of training were not recovered. However,
considering PROBECAT's equity objectives, the program might have helped shorten the job
search period for those who were at a disadvantage (particularly women), compared to the
average unemployed worker.
23.   The evaluation of PILEOT was carried out in 1996 and comprised an assessment of the
impact of training in facilitating self-employment, based on a sample of 338 program participants
in 5 states; and an analysis of the employment impact of local initiatives, based on a sample of
188 cases in 3 states. Results of the self-employment evaluation indicated positive returns to
training. Average earning increased by 10.5 percent and by 25 percent for women. Nevertheless,
40 percent of the program participants spent an average 7 months seeking employment. Among
those employed before and after training, self-employment grew from 27.7 percent to 35.4
percent as a result of the training, compared to 29.0 percent self-employed after training among
all program participants. With respect to the impact of local initiatives, earnings improved
slightly after training (from 1.3 to 1.4 minimum salaries per month), but as many as 21 percent of
the sample was not gainfully employed after training at the time of the survey. This less than
satisfactory result is attributable to poor selection of participants at the local level, where many
enrolled with the only objective of receiving a subsidy during a period of great economic
hardship. Program adjustments are planned to incorporate these findings.
24.   Institutional Development. This component supported the strengthening the capacity of
STPS staff to design, implement, and evaluate labor policies. Implementation began under the
General Directorate of Employment (DGE) and was transferred to the General Coordination Unit
for Labor Market Policies, Studies and Statistics (CGPEET) in 1996. Similar efforts had been
supported between 1987 and 1992 by the earlier Bank financed project (Loan 2876-ME), with
very positive results. The general strategy under Loan 3542-ME, consisted in strengthening the
decision making process by improving technical capacity at central and local levels through the
modernization of equipment and procedures, and improved processes for hiring consultants. The
STPS human resources were developed by training trainers and preparing new teaching
materials, both at central and local levels, with assistance from universities and other institutions
specialized in in-service training. The training carried out during project implementation



10
benefited 851 SEE employees, 170 UPC trainers working at UPCs, and 155 administrative and
technical staff. In subsequent years, a total of 728 courses were given to 10,789 employees.
Emphasis was given to computer systems, management, accounting, and statistics.
Procurement of Goods and Services
25.   The equipment procured for the DGE labor market information system included 2 RISC
servers, 52 servers and 512 PCs, at a total cost of $3,530,000. The equipment procured for the
General Directorate of Labor Statistics consisted of 7 RISC servers, 1 server, 85 PCs and
ancillary equipment, at a total of US$805,000. In both cases, more equipment was acquired at
lower prices compared to appraisal estimates, due to careful procurement and lower computer
costs in recent years.
26.   For training centers, the project financed complementary furniture and equipment
(including audiovisual) for 184 different occupation specialties in 90 centers. Of these, 89
percent of the institutions are from the government, 10 percent belong to the private sector and I
percent to the non-governmental sector (NGOs).
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES
27.   The project components dealing with productivity enhancement and labor market
adjustment achieved or surpassed most of its intermediate targets of: (a) improving the coverage
of the enterprise pilot training program (CIMO) and expanding the scope of technical assistance
to MSMEs; (b) strengthening coordination between CIMO and other institutions assisting to
MSMEs; (c) strengthening the SEEs and improving the quality and availability of information on
local and regional labor markets; (d) providing improved re-training for displaced and
unemployed workers; and (e) introducing an education and training program for under-qualified
rural migrants on a pilot basis. PROBECAT surpassed several times the target number of
fellowships, from 42,000 in 1992, to 46,000 in 1993, to almost 200,000 in 1994, 400,000 in
1995, and over 500,000 in 1996 and 1997. CIMO expanded its geographic coverage from 29
existing training promotion units, to a total of 62 units and sub-units. During the project period,
almost 1.5 million workers attended 120,000 training and related events. CIMO operated with
enough flexibility to respond well to regional and sector needs, continuously adjusting program
features as results from surveys and studies became available. Through the Information, Policy,
and Institutional Strengthening component, the project had considerable impact in the
development of information systems, strengthening the capacity of STPS staff through
specialized training, and in carrying out a successful program of promotion of specialization in
labor related studies and research within the academic community.
28.   Other objectives were only partially met or not fulfilled at all. For instance, the
promotion of the gradual privatization of CIMO through increased participation of enterprise
associations in program financing and operations, did not materialize, although substantial cost-
sharing was achieved. Private sector contribution to CIMO, although substantial, was lower than
the target originally proposed. The private sector was expected to absorb the cost of training



11
workers, increasing from 65 percent at project inception to 85 percent at project completion; and
the cost of technical assistance to MSMEs was expected to be born by participating firms at a
ratio of 30 percent initially and 60 percent at project completion. On average, the private sector
financed 44 percent of the total cost of training and technical assistance provided by CIMO. The
ambitious plan to transform enterprise organizations (chambers and associations) into centers of
enterprise modernization and a reservoir of technical expertise (thereby transferring the
developmental role vis-a-vis individual firms from the public to the private sector), proved
difficult to achieve. Difficulties were primarily associated with the technical and financial
constraints facing these associations that limited their ability to sustain UPC functions. At project
closing, 19 UPCs had been formally incorporated into enterprise associations, but these units
continue to be dependent from STPS for financing and technical support.
29.   Worker training provided through PROBECAT (excluding PILEOT), benefited a total of
947,715 job seekers, and 730,441 (or 77 percent) of them found gainful employment after
training. This compares favorably with direct job search (without training) which resulted in
586,591 placements among 2,140,299 applicants (or 27 percent success); as well as with
employment fairs, which resulted in 16 percent success. The evaluation of PROBECAT pointed
to a need for improvements in targeting the unemployed that would benefit most from the
program. This group comprises women and young male adults of less than 25 years of age, and
especially women with economic dependents. The fellowships would be more beneficial for
those job seekers with less than high school education, compared to young people with bachelor
or higher degrees. This last group proved more difficult to be helped by PROBECAT and should
be referred to other assistance programs.
30.   Assessing the impact of PILEOT is important, especially considering that it has utilized
well over one half of the PROBECAT fellowships since 1995 (other initiatives for utilizing
fellowships were proposed in 1995, but did not amount to significant branching of the main
program). Two thirds of the PILEOT participants obtained employment after training, and their
earnings increased by about 20 percent (25 percent for women and 15.5 percent for men) among
those who had a job before training. The increase in earnings was larger for workers earning
above the minimum wage, but only 40 percent of them became self-employed after training,
possibly due to lack of capital to start a business. Clearly, there is room for improvements in the
PILEOT program and some recommendations to this effect are presented in the section on
Lessons Learned.
31.   The outcome of the pilot program on local initiatives was assessed through a sample
survey of activities in 33 municipalities and 39 localities. The objective of this program was to
help economically active groups in rural areas to improve productivity and income. The results
of this study are not conclusive. More successful groups tended to cluster in agriculture, manual
crafts and food production, and were established long before the initiation of the training
program (2 to 9 years). In contrast, the less successful groups were established a few months or
days prior to program participation. Although the successful groups proved capable of sustained
economic production after training, they reported no significant improvements in the quality of
their products. In general, empirical evidence indicates that much would need to be changed in
the design and operation of this program in order to ensure positive impact on rural productivity
and incomes.



12
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not subject to Government control
32.   The economic crisis that affected Mexico in 1995 increased unemployment and placed
considerable pressure on the STPS programs. The Government responded to the crisis by
requesting more international assistance, increasing the budget allocations to STPS programs and
making other changes, such as expanding the geographic coverage of existing programs and
reaching into rural areas.
Factors subject to Government control
33.   Except for some delays in budget allocations at the beginning of the project
implementation period, this project was well funded by the Government, even during periods of
economic stress, because of its expected impact in alleviating the unemployment problem.
Factors subject to the control of the implementation agency
34.   The STPS confronted problems in administering and controlling the quality of the
surveys and studies part of this project. Although many of the studies provided guidance for
improvements in program and research designs, in some instances, methodological flaws clouded
the analysis and conclusions. Investment in stronger and more diverse technical assistance to
carry out the research program would have been worthwhile. Also, closer monitoring by state
level staff of the selection of program beneficiaries (enterprises and trainees) and better
adherence to established standards would have increased considerably the quality of the
programs and their impact.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   The capacity demonstrated by the STPS at federal and state levels to carry out this
program augurs well for its continuity. Nevertheless, reliance on external financial assistance for
employment programs, which require substantial outlays in the federal budget, will continue for
the medium term. In the near future, continuity of these programs is assured with assistance
from IDB. While increased reliability on the state level agencies will tend to foster sustainability,
appropriate evaluation and measurement of program results ought to continue at the federal level
in order to ensure that program outcomes justify program costs.
BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   Bank staff was highly committed and cooperative, and demonstrated technical expertise,
both during appraisal and supervision of the project. Although different teams were responsible
for project design and appraisal and for subsequent supervision, continuity was ensured. On
hindsight, however, it would have probably been better if the Bank team had stronger research
expertise available throughout the project implementation period. Such expertise was made



13
available in a rather sporadic manner. More systematic and frequent research supervision would
also have led project managers to seek more relevant technical assistance for the main studies.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Overall, the STPS and the State Governments demonstrated an exceptional capability for
launching large program expansions, in a short time, without detriment to the good quality of
services and training provided. The Government also acted diligently in seeking additional
financial assistance (through the PROSSE project) for employment related program expansion, in
response to the economic crisis. In spite of the excellent performance of the STPS, some
problems should be mentioned so they may be remedied in future investments. Improvements
can be made to ensure continuous monitoring of training and other programs, and to make
corrections in program design during implementation. Also, as already mentioned, difficulties
were encountered in the implementation of the ambitious research and survey program.
Although capable Mexican institutions and individual consultants with recognized expertise were
used, they were not necessarily experienced in the novel methodologies that had been proposed
for the study of program impact on the labor market. Consequently, there were problems in the
execution of several studies, ambivalence as to the interpretation of terms of reference agreed
with the Bank, difficulties in preparing study protocols and in identifying appropriate
consultants. All these problems resulted in tentative conclusions and unclear interpretation of the
results of some of the studies.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   Overall, the project met most of its objectives and has been rated as highly satisfactory. It
provided a strong basis for program improvements and, most importantly, gave impetus to labor
force modernization by facilitating employment for hundreds of thousands of unemployed
workers during a period of economic crisis. Issues pointing to weak aspects of implementation
include the administration of research and insufficient monitoring by state and local level
agencies of some of the training and productivity enhancement programs.
39.  In spite of their limitations, the studies constituted commendable efforts in the evaluation
of major programs: CIMO, PROBECAT and PILEOT. The studies resulted in a wealth of
analyses and tentative findings. While it was found that the enterprises assisted by CIMO
experienced many qualitative improvements in organization, management, and incentives to
staff, the statistical analysis did not show significant differences in labor productivity and value-
added when assisted firms were compared to the control group. It should be noted, however, that
the surveys on which these results were based were taken in 1995, when many changes in
program design were still to be made and there was insufficient elapsed time to gauge the full
effects of the program. More definitive conclusions regarding the outcomes should be based on
more recent data. New studies will need to focus on measuring prograrn costs in relation to
benefits, identifying impact on productivity, and assessing the extent to which program
participants fared better than they would have without the program.



14
LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The following were the lessons learned from the review and assessment of the project:
a) CIMO would need to focus much more on guiding enterprises toward productivity issues.
Productivity and value-added were lower for CIMO assisted enterprises than for firms in the
control group. In the latter, improvements were caused mainly by introduction of quality
controls, an indication that those firms were more focused on increasing the quality of their
products or services, and on client satisfaction.
b) In order to make enterprises self-sufficient with regard to technical assistance and worker
training, CIMO would need to advise firms on concrete steps they should take to identify and
use relevant and effective training programs for continued staff development and proficient
and affordable technical advice.
c) Most of CIMO assistance has been for micro and small enterprises (only 7 percent were
medium size firms), yet this group obtained lower benefits than the medium enterprises from
training and technical assistance. CIMO should continue to cater to smaller enterprises.
However, the selection of these enterprises should follow strict criteria to determine a real
need for the assistance and the economic viability of the firm. This would avoid investments
in enterprises that would not be able to afford the total costs of the assistance on their own or
that would not be able to stand the competition due to pronounced inefficiency or market
loss.
d) It is important for the CIMO program to introduce specific targets of productive performance
that could be easily monitored by the smaller firms, including output per worker, sales and
value added. While training should continue to be customized to the needs of each firm,
more emphasis should be given to production and commercialization of goods and services,
rather than the current emphasis on subjects such as administration, accounting and finance.
e) For those workers receiving training for self-employment through PROBECAT, there is a
need to include in the courses conceptual frameworks and best practices on how to open and
administer a business. To this end, course duration might need to be increased to three
months and might need to include also other topics related to productivity, competitiveness
and profits.
f) To increase the impact of programs encouraging self-employment, prospective PROBECAT
beneficiaries should be properly screened regarding their socio-demographic, economic, as
well as employment history and their post-fellowship motivation and intentions. Before
being accepted for training, the background of the candidates should give reasonable
indications that they really wish to become self-employed and are financially capable of
opening their own business. For instance, it was found that housewives who never held a job
outside the home were most likely not to seek employment after training. Given that
participants receive payment from PROBECAT while studying, many use the program as a
means to earn some money, without a real interest in post-training employment.



15
g) In general, women benefit from and make good use of the PROBECAT training programs if
they have economic dependents. The number of economic dependents tends to be positively
related to the women's interest in self-employment or in a paid job after training.
h) Young people with more than high school education tend not to seek self-employment or
low-earnings employment after training. They should be directed to other employment
assistance programs.
i) The PROBECAT training programs for unemployed workers, should be continuously
monitored with respect to performance of trainers, the extent to which selection criteria is
consistently applied, the training offered is relevant, and impacts on trainees with respect to
employment and earnings.
j) The ambitious research and survey program proved difficult to be carried out. Although the
STPS ensured the participation of capable Mexican institutions and individual consultants
with recognized expertise, their lack of experience with novel research methodologies proved
to be a serious constraint. Better research outcomes could have been achieved if experts were
used in the definition and execution of complicated studies, and if wider competition among
qualified institutions had been encouraged prior to the selection of consultants. This is
particularly important for research requiring various kinds of expertise and hands-on
experience with especially difficult evaluation studies. Finally, the administration of the
project should have provided more effective follow up of studies to ensure an acceptable final
product in all cases.
k) New studies would need to focus on measuring program costs in relation to benefits, effects
on productivity and the extent to which program participants fared better than they would
have without the program.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.   At the request of the Government of Mexico, the Bank is currently preparing a new
operation focusing on technical training and certification. The proposed project concept is being
developed by a technical team comprising representatives of the STPS, Secretariat of Education
(SEP) and CONOCER, an agency comprising government, entrepreneurs and union
representatives, responsible for the development of labor competency norms and certification.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3542-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
Table 5:     Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:     Studies included in Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.t Achtsheg,vemnt*  J-ttW A  '?st_
Macro policies                                                                   4
Sector policies                      4
Financial objectives                                                              4
Institutional development            4
Physical objectives                  4
Poverty reduction                                  4
Gender issues                                      4
Other social objectives              4
Environmental objectives                                                          4
Public sector management             4
Private sector development           4
Other (specify)
B. Project SuttblZRi              '    I4          fkI               <
Sustainability                       4
Identification                       4
Preparation assistance               4
Appraisal                            4
Supervision                                        4
Preparation                          4
Implementation                       4
Covenant compliance                  4
Operation                            4
Assessment of Overall Outcome        4



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
X0gu1,2m...|..W.@,~,> 4 s .4jpr IS   PIRtU                                                 (oeG1 1t1 ''''%'
Technical Project I   Aimed at increasing the supply of skilled  1981     Closed    PCR dated March 31, 1986
Ln.2042-ME            and middle level technicians, by
supporting establishment of a network of
vocational training centers under
CONALEP.
Technical Project II  Continued support to the network of      1985       Closed    PCR dated December 30, 1991
Ln.2559-ME            vocational training centers and aimed at
improving management and quality of
training and developing strategic training
options.
Technical Project III    Objective is to improve the CONALEP   1991    To be closed  The closing date was extended to permit
Ln.3358-ME            system which addresses technical                 on 12/31/98  CONALEP to complete an in-depth
education in Mexico.                                          evaluation of the impact of its training
programs.
Technical Education   Objective is to improve the quality of the  1994   Ongoing    To provide greater support to project
and Training          technical education and training in Mexico                    implementation, supervision work has
Modernization Project  so that it meets the critical needs of the                   been transferred from headquarters to the
Ln.3805-ME            productive sector in a flexible manner.                       field.
Program of Essential    Objective was to protect essential social  1995   Closed    ICR scheduled for December 1998.
Social Services       services during a period of economic crisis
(PROSSE) Ln. 3912-
ME



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
- Stepsithe Noject Cyle                            Date           at alf
planed        latet esimate
1. Preparation                                    10/16/92         10/21/91
2. Appraisal                                       6/29/92           6/2/92
3. Negotiations                                    11/17/92         11/16/92
4. Board presentation                              12/1/92          12/15/92
5. Signing                                          2/1/93          12/18/92
6. Effectiveness                                    6/1/93          3/11/93
7. Project completion                              12/31/97         6/30/98
8. Loan closing                                    6/30/98          6/30/98
Project Timetables
6-Dec-99,.,........... , X.......v... 
24-Jul-98               U           WW}
11 -Mar-97            Y~
28-Oct-95       M
a 15-Jun-94 ~~~~~~~~~  ~~                 Date planned
a31-Jan-93
31 -Jan-93                           g~~~~~~~~~~~~Date actual
19-Sep-91
7-May-90 E
23-Dec-88
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8
Processing Steps



20
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
(Bank Fiscal Year)
IBRD FY                    FY93   FY94, FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimates         16.0      44.0      84.0      124.0    156.0    174.0
Actual Disbursements       17.56      43.5      81.5      118.0    141.2    171.8    174.0
Actual as percent of       109.8      98.9      97.0      95.1      90.5       98.7     100.0
Estimate
Date of Last
Disbursement             September 3, 1998
Disbursements
200
180
160
140
0c 120
j100
080
60
Appraisal
40                                                            Estietes
20
0  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _A ctual
Disbursen-ents
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Bank Fiscal Year



21
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
Key Implementation Indicators at        Unit          Original Targets     Achieved as of  Percent Achieved
Project Appraisal                               through 1997        Dec. 31, 1997    over Original./
Revised Targets in                     Revised Targets
Parenthesis
A. PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT
COMPONENT
*  Establishment of new UPCs               UPC                5 (19)                24              126.3
*  Promoters                              Persons            170 (294)             253               86.1
*  Events                                 Events              17,520             146,524            836.3
* Training                                 Event              11,250              78,339            696.4
* Consultancies                            Event              3,000               67.687           2,256.2
* Technical assistance                    Program              270                 335              124.1
* Industrial information services         Consulta            3,000                163               5.4
*  Workers' Participation in:                                195,000             1,595,508          818.2
* Training courses                     Worker/course         135,000             1,033,659          757.5
* Consulting events                    Worker/course          60,000             572,849            954.8
*  Enterprise participation in:                               64,020             494,679            772.7
* Training courses                     Enterpr/course         56,250             401,721            714.2
* Consultancies                        Enterpr/course         6,000               92,194           1,536.6
*  Information services                 Enterpr/cons.         1,500                163               10.9
* Technical assistance                 Enterpr/course          270                 601              222.6
*  Enterprises Receiving other services                       37,360              75,080            201.0
* Seminars                               Enterprises          35,200                -                 -
*  Information services                  Enterprises          2,160                 -                 -
B. LABOR MARKET ADJUSTMENT
COMPONENT
*  Organize periodic reg. meetings        Meeting               20                  20              100.0
*  Form interinstitutional committes    Committees              32                  48              150.0
*  Prepare and distr. info.bulletins      Bulletins         1,536 (640)            473               73.9
*  Revise, print and distribute operational  Manual             2                   2               100.0
manual for SEEs
*  Interview and advice job seekers       Persons            1,878,000          2,140,300           114.0
*  Register vacancies                    Vacancies           1,931,000           1,578,352           81.7
*  Job placements                         Persons            633,000             586,591             92.7
*  Establish information windows         Windows               32                   33              103.1
*  Train/re-train unemployed workers    Fellowship           300,000             1,459,565          486.5
* School course                          Fellowship          240,000             691,419            288.1
* Training in enterprise                 Fellowship          60,000              221,690            369.5
+ PILEOT                                 Fellowship             -                546,456              -
*  Procurement of complementary            Center              300                 194               64.7
equipment for training centers
*  Follow-up and evaluation of             Report               4                   3                75.0
equipment program
* SEEs' Strengthening
SEE                 32                  16               50.0
* Perform institutional analyses          System                I                   1               100.0
* Establish incentive system
* Incorparate staff to State Socia Security   percentStaff     100                 63                63
System                                Campaign               5                   4                80.0
* Conduct promotional campaigns            Units              - (48)                51              106.3
* Place mobile units                      Offices             - (47)                17              36.2
* Remodel SEE offices



22
i~e~ ljplenietationIndicaoi atUnit        ~ Original Targets,Ata
hrough 1997         Ahee   s          eie
..  1 <     ;0   _     .. L; < <   ;;   S:Revised Target ()        of De.1,          ee
rget 0 ~ ~~Trgt
C. INFORMATION, POLICY AND
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
*  Surveys
I National Employment                      Survey                3 (4)                  4            100.0
+ National Employment,
Salaries,Technology and Training        Survey                 2                     a            100.0
* Manufacturing Industry Workers           Survey                3 (4)                  4            100.0
* Migration                                Survey                 3                     3            100.0
* Micro-entrerprises                       Survey                 2                     2            100.0
* Program Reviews:
PROBECAT                          Number                 3 (1)                  I            100.0
CIMO                              Number                  2                     2            100.0
* Studies
* Labor Markets                            Study                  21                   26            123.8
* Determinants of Unemployment,
Salaries and Productivity               Study                  3                     3            100.0
* Labor Market Model                       Study                 5 (1)                  I            1.00.0
*  Regional and Sectoral Studies           Study                  25                   21            84.0
*  PROBECAT Evaluation                     Study                 3 (6)                  6            100.0
* CIMO Annual Reviews                      Review                 5                     5            100.0
* CIMO Impact Evaluation                   Study                  2                     2            100.0
* Mid-Term Review (Project)                Review                  I                    I            100.0
* Information System
* Definition of short term statistical
Series                                 Document                 I                    I            100.0
* Compiling and updating short and long
term statistics                        Document                 5                    2            40.0
* Systems Development                      System                  1                  0.75           75.0
* Provision and installation of equipment
(SET)                                 percentspent             100                  100           100.0
* Communications network                  Network                  I                    I            100.0
* Links                                    Links                  I1                    11          100.0
* Distribution of data bases               Bases                   I                    0             -
* Data bases in communication network      Bases                  10                    I            10.0



23
* Updating DGE data base (SIPRH)          Bases                  5                    5           100.0
* Development of new modules and
making them operational at local level  Number                3                    0
* Module development for the industrial
information system                    Number                  I                    0
* Provision and installation of equipment
for CIMO, PROBECAT, and
complementary equipment for DGE      percent spent            79                 82.7          104.7
* Provision of audiovisual equipment       sets                 34                   34           100.0
*  Human Resource Development          trained/course          3,769                4,121         109.3
* Courses coordinated by CGPEET         No.Trained             2,364                1,595         70.5
No.courses             419                  453           108.1
* Courses coordinated by DGE           trained/course          6,020               10,618         176.4
(including UPCs and SEEs)            No.Trained             2,579                5,423         210.3
No.courses             309                 1,012         327.5



24
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
STUDIES UNDER THE INFORMATION, POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT
Study 2             Purpose as defined at       Status                Impact
Appraisl/ redefined
Demographic Determinants of  Learn about the occupation  Published in  Contributed to the pool of
the Supply of Labor Force   of economic agents who    September 1994,  knowledge re. The behavior of
participate in the market,  in Series    the supply of labor
differentiating by main  "Cuadernos de
groups of activities, as well Trabajo"No.6
as by salaried and non-
salaried workers
Employment in the           Measure the impact and   Published in    It made it possible to evaluate
Agricultural Sector         the prospect for         September, 1994, the impact of various social
employment in the       in Series        and commercial policies in
agricultural sector, in view  "Cuadernos de    agricultural activities
of several reforms, such as  Trabajo" No.7
Constitutional Article 27,
NAFTA and PRONASOL
and PROCAMPO
Effects of Integration of   To present a broad       Published in   - It was an input for decisions
Regional Economic Blocks (of  overview of the effects that November, 1995  regarding NAFTA (treaty
countries) in the Labor     the slow and growing    in Series        among Mexico, Canada and
Markets                    integration of the regional  "Cuadernos de   the United States)
economic blocks and      Trabajo"No.9
worldwide globalization
have had on labor markets
Changes in the Organization    To determine the      Completed in    Contributed to the STPS
and Management of Labor,    importance of the human   November, 1993  analysis of determinants of
and their Effects on        element in the processes of              productivity in labor groups
Employment, Productivity and  change and adoption of a
Quality of the Enterprises  higher productivity
conscience in Mexican
Enterprises, adopting as a
philisophy the need to
create such a culture, with
help from tools that will
allow the country to
compete
Productivity Differentials  To examine levels of     Published in    It was an input for decisions
between Mexico, Canada and   productivity among the  August, 1994 in   regarding NAFTA (treaty
U.S.                       three countries, at three  Series         among Mexico, Canada and
'levels: national, sectoral,   "Cuadernos de   the United States)
2All studies described in this table are in Spanish (translated titles).



25
and.broad categories of  Trabajo" No.5
manufacturing activities,
using an adaptation of the
method called Purchasing
Power Parity (PPA) in
calculations
Productivity Trends in Mexico  To reconstruct historic  Published in  It was a basic input for
(1970-1991)                 series with current data  November, 1994   formulation.of labor and
from Banco de Mexico and  in Series      industrial policies
INEGI, using gross data on  "Cuadernos de
fixed capital, man-hours    Trabajo"No.8
worked, and Internal Gross
Product; learn the effects
on productivity in various
sectors of the economy,
structural adjustment, open
markets and measures to
fight inflation
Evaluating the Feasibility Of   To design a methodology   Completed in  Complemented STPS research
Constructing, For Mexico, An   for such an index, using  February 1994    on worker compensation and
Index To Measure Labor Costs  statistics available in                benefits. It will eventually be
Mexico                                   published periodically
Measuring Productivity Within  To present various    Completed in    Contributed to the analysis of
the Enterprise              methods for measuring    February 1994,   how to measure productivity
productivity within an   and updated     and redistribute workers'
enterprise, of practical  every six months  contributions
applicability
General Labor Conditions in    Evaluate the evolution of   Completed in    It has become an indispensable
Priority Sectors           labor relations in the    November, 1994  tool to measure the degree of
context of modernity,                    flexibility and modernization
documenting qualitative                  of the enterprises
changes taking place,
which are spelled out in
collective labor contracts
Economic Structure and the    Expand and enrich the  Published in    It has made possible to update
Informal Sector In Mexico   knowledge about the      November, 1995  the knowledge of this
(1988-1993)                 informal sector of the   in Series       important segment of the labor
Mexican economy, its    "Cuadernos de,  market
segments and activities, its  Trabajo"No.10
links to the formal sector
and the changes in the
determinant factors
Annual Report of the Labor    Analyze the main causes    Completed in  Contributed to the analysis of
Markets, 1993               of employment contraction  November 1994  the labor markets during the
in the formal sector during              structural changes of the
1993, how the gap between                economy
labor demand and supply
I was closed during the



26
transformation process
Econometric Model for      Analyze and estimate the   Completed in    Provided elements to analize
Mexico                     main variables of the   June, 1995       and explain the determinants
Mexican economy through                 of the Mexican economy and
an econometric model that               in particular, of the labor
will help determine the                 market
interrelations among the
sectors of the economy,
under various growth
scenarios
Training and Productivity  Provide facts in which to   Completed    Reference document in
base judgement and                      support of research on
decisions, as well as                   employment
present recommendations
leading to solutions for
problems affecting training
in Mexico
Labor Supply and Demand    Analize statistical data  Completed      Reference document in
from the National                       support of research on
Employment Survey                       employment
(ENE) to learn about the
evolution of supply and
demand of labor during
1988-1995
Labor Relations            Gather and describe the  Completed       Reference document in
main elements and                       support of research on
characteristics of labor                employment
relations in Mexico, their
evolution and trends, on
the basis of information on
collective bargaining,
occurring periodically,
mainly at the Federal level
Remmunerations             Analyze remmunerations   Completed       Reference document in
as determinants of labor                support of research on
markets, and as                         employment
conditioning elements of
equilibrium among the
factors of production, in
order to reformulate, as
needed, income
improvements that would
not impede the healthy
development of the
enterprises
Migration                  Identify the main       Completed        Reference document in
migratory currents                      support of research on
originated in Mexico or                 employment



27
that had Mexico as transit
or destination; analyze as
well the patterns of
migration in the interior of
the country, to identify
types, determinants,
characteristics and
consequences of this
phenomenon, and present
proposals based on
findings
Unemployment of the Labor    Analyze the concept of  Completed       Reference document in
Force                      unemployment, its                         support of research on
characteristics and factors              employment
affecting it, in order to
advise on alternatives to
take care of the
unemployed
Analysis of the Informal    Measure employment in    Completed       Reference document in
Sector                     the informal sector using                 support of research on
data from the National                   employment
Employment Survey
(ENE) and the National
Survey of Micro-
businesses (ENAMIN)
Dynamics of the Informal   Define the most          No proposals
Sector and Implications for    appropriate public policy   received
Public Policy              for acknowledging,
promoting and supporting
a systematic integration of
the population employed in
informal occupations into
the formal labor market,
based on a comprehensive
analysis of the causes,
characteristics, and
dynamics of the informal
sector of the economy, as
well as on a cost-benefit
evaluation of alternative
policies
Flexible Organization of Labor Identify the current general No proposals
in Enterprises             and specific characteristics  received
of the organization of the
productive processes and
of the human resources
predominant in Mexican
enterprises of various sizes
and type of activity, and



28
propose, in the context of
the existing and
predictable future
economic situation, actions
that would lead to the most
appropriate prototype of
flexible organization of
labor, and would
encourage generation of
well remunerated
employment
Employment and Training in   Analyze the patterns of    Completed in    Supported the design of
the Turism Sector: Lodging    employment and training   December 1993   strategies to strengthen the
Sub-sector                 in the mentioned sub-                    lodging sub-sector through
sector and identify areas               CIMO and PROBECAT
for action by CIMO and
PROBECAT in order to
promote turism
Productive and Organizational  Determine the effects of    Completed in  Contributed to knowledge
Characteristics of Mexican  the technological       1996            regarding employment in
Manufacturing Enterprises  modernization in the                     manufacturing enterprises, in
organization of labor, its              order to design mechanisms to
flexibilization, trends of              take care of the corresponding
manufacturing                           labor market
employment and training
needs
Local and Regional Labor   Process information     Completed in    Supported analysis of the labor
Markets - State Level      available in the        November, 1993  market by the State
administrative records of               Employment Services (SEEs).
the Mexican Institute of                In all, 32 analyses were
Social Security (IMSS), at              produced, one in each state
state level, and prepare
tables with information on
employment movements in
the short tern
Local and Regional Labor   Process information     Completed in    Supported analysis of the labor
Markets - Municipal Level  available in the        November 1994   market by the State
administrative records of               Employment Services (SEEs).
the Mexican Institute of
Social Security (IMSS), at              Reports were produced for
municipal level for                     selected municipalities
selected municipalities,
and prepare tables with
information on
employment movements in
the short term
Level of Education and     Analyze information on    Completed in   Results were fed into the
Technical Training of the  the characteristics of   1994            design of strategies for CIMO



29
Labor Force in Mexico      training of the                          and PROBECAT programs
economically active
population in the most
urbanized areas, based on
ENE 1988
Regional Study on Industrial   Study, in coordination with  Completed in  Results were fed into the
Modernization in Aguas     the Government of Aguas   1996           design of strategies for CIMO
Calientes                  Calientes, of the impact of              and PROBECAT programs in
modernization on labor                  that state
Foreign Investment and     Create and analyze       Completed in    Supported the development of
Employment in Mexico       information of          December 1994   STPS' institutional activities
characteristics and effects
of foreign investments on
employment in Mexico
Evaluation Report on       Analize the performance of Completed in  The results of the study
Operation of SEE Mobile    the mobile units provided   December, 1994  justified the need to acquire
Units                      to the SEEs in 1993 and                  and provide SEEs with
assess their impact on the              additional 45 mobile units to
achievement of objectives               back up employment
of the Labor Market                     promotion operations
Adjustment Component
and particularly, on
strengthening of the
National Employment
Service; also, it was to
determine whether more
mobile units were
necessary
Indicators on Short-term   Process and analyze     Completed in     This information was useful
Labor Markets' Behavior, up to  information available in   July, 1995  for the analysis of labor
the 5th Two-month Period of  the administrative records             market by SEEs (thirty two
1994                       of the Mexican Institute of              documents were prepared, one
Social Security (IMSS), at              for each state)
state level, and at
municipal level (for
selected municipalities),
and prepare tables with
information on
employment movements in
the short term
Foreign Investment and     Analyze employment      Completed,       Supported the development of
Employment in Mexico       patterns and trends in  edited and       the institutional activities of
enterprises with foreign  published in  the STPS
investment              September, 1994
Indicators on Short-term   Process and analyze     Completed in     This information was useful
Labor Markets' Behavior, up to  information available in    October, 1995    for the analysis of labor
the 3th Two-month period of   the administrative records            market by SEEs (thirty two
1994                       of the Mexican Institute of              documents were prepared, one



30
Social Security (IMSS), at              for each state)
state level, and at
municipal level (for
selected municipalities),
and prepare tables with
information on
employment movements in
the short term  -
Compatibility, Labor Mobility, Carry out a comparative    Completed in    Provided information applied
And Training In The "Industria analysis on the mobility of  1996   in CIMO and PROBECAT
Maquilladora" For Export In   the labor force, training            activities in the Northern
Mexico (Motor Vehicles, and   and competitivity among              States
Electronics)               "maquiladoras" producing
automobile parts and
electrical appliances, in the
North of Mexico
Methodology to Identify   Identify the most        Completed in    Supported the development of
Strategic Factors to Improve    competitive economic  1995         the institutional activities of
Sectoral Competitivity    sectors, and determining                 the STPS
factors
Second Evaluation Study on    Evaluate the operation and  Completed in    This study was distributed to
Operation of SEE Mobile   impact of the mobile units  September, 1996  all the SEE and CEDEPECA
Units                      delivered to SEEs and                   to help make a more eficient
CEDEPECA early in 1995,                 use of the mobile units, in
on the programs operated                order to expand coverage of
by the National                        the programs and stregthen
Employment Service                     their operations
First Evaluation Study of the   Evaluate program impact   Completed in    Provided guidance for
PILEOT Program in its Two    in order to improve   December 1996   designing and developing
Approaches: Local          employment conditions of                more pertinent curricula for
Employment Initiatives and    under-employed                       training for these programs,
Self-employment            population, in productive               both at regional level and
rural programs; study                   among the target population.
would also be applied to                Two studies were produced:
expand occupation                       one for local initiatives and
opportunities among the                 another for Self-employment
unemployed population
with few possibilities of
obtaining a formal
occupation
Impact Of Technological and   Analize recent       Completed in    Reference document
Organizational Innovations in  technological changes in    March 1997  supporting the analysis of
The Emergence of a New    the textile industry and                 prospective occupations
Labor Profile in the Textile    assess their impact in the
Industry                  labor profiles of the jobs
created
Global Evolution of        Study basic trends related   Completed and   Strengthened -knowledge of
Employment in Mexico and    to employment and labor  published in  labor markets and training



31
Educational Characteristics of  markets, and relationships   December 1995   requirements; it also helped
the Economically Active     between training and                      follow up of programs
Population, 1970-1993       employment                               operated by the NES
Occupational Prospects in the   Apply the methodology  Completed in  Reference document to
Clothing Industry           used for occupational    June 1995        support occupational analysis
prospects, to the clothing               and to update the National
industry, to validate                     Register of Occupations
training instruments and
data analysis
Trends in Production,       Identify and analyze     Completed in     Reference document which
Innovation and in New Labor   factors influencing    December, 1996  contributed to knowledge on
Expertise in Selected Sectors,  production and                       imbalances, through time,
1995-2000                   occupational patterns in                 between supply and demand
the main areas of                        of qualified labor, in various
economic activity in                     sectors and economic regions
Mexico
International Migration Flows  Prepare a general and  Completed and    Disseminated among
in the Mexican South Border   descriptive framework of   published in  Universities, research
various labor migration  September 1994  institutions, and social sector
flows taking place in the                agents devoted to studying and
states of Chiapas and                    participating in labor market
Quintana Roo, capturing                  and employment activities
basic characteristics of
each flow. Undertake a
first methodological
exercise that would enable
an in-depth study of each
labor flow with
international migration
characteristics
Training and Employment:    Evaluate the Benefit-cost   Completed in  This study was used to refine
Evaluation of the Fellowship   of PROBECAT           August 1995     and improve the Program and
Program for the Unemployed                                           ensure a better impact
(Second Study)                                                       regarding placement and
improvement of conditions
among the unemployed,
through mixed and school
instruction
Participatory Training:     Use methodology that     Completed in    This study served as reference
Visualization Methodology   ensures a more active    1994            to CIMO workers in advising
participation and                        enterprises
articulation on the part of
trainees, to better identify
their needs, expectations
and recommendations.
Design training activities
of workers in aspects that
enhance their participation



32
in modernization of the
enterprises, and in
improving working
conditions
Evaluation of the Pilot     Evaluate the impact of   Completed in    Reference document to guide
Program of Basic Training for  mixed training, conducted   1996      PROBECAT's strategies and
Productive Activities      together with INEA                        actions. The study concluded
(literacy training) in order             that mixed training is not an
to determine whether it is               effective combination
appropriate to adopt mixed
training (basic education
mixed with productive
training)for unemployed
persons who have not
completed primary level
studies or are illiterate
Training and technical      Benefit-cost evaluation of  Completed in  Served to retool and redirect
assistance in micro, small and  the CIMO program     1995            the training and services of
medium enterprises: CIMO                                             CIMO
Program Evaluation



33
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                 Actual Costs
Item         Local    Foreign    Total    percent   Local   Foreign   Total   percent
. ________   _________         Foreign                             Foreign
A. Productivity
Enhancement       87.4       1.8      89-2      2.0      107.7     2.2    109.9    2.0
B. Labor Market
Adjustment       191.9       6.5      198.4     3.3      165.0      5.6    170.6    3.3
C. Information,
Policy and Instit'l
Strengthening      30.5       4.0      34.5      11.6      29.3      3.8    33.1    11.5
Unallocated         32.0       1.8      33.8       5.3       -        -        -        -
TOTAL
PROJECT
COST               341.8      14.1      355.9      4.0     302.0     11.6   313.6    3.7
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual Costs
Source       Local Costs  Foreign Costs    Total    Local Costs  Foreign       Total
Costs
IBRD                  159.9         14.1         174.0       162.4       11.6       174.0
Federal Govern.       114.9          -           114.9        87.0         -        87.0
State Governments     18.0                       18.0         12.2                   12.2
Private Enterprises   49.0           -           49.0         40.4         -        40.4
TOTAL                 341.8         14.1         355.9       302.0        11.6      313.6



34
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle              Weeks          US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal                           178.2            375.7
Appraisal                                           47.5            131.2
Negotiations through Board Approval                 11.2             28.3
Supervision                                         86.7            270.4
Completion                                           5.6             14.3
Total                                              329.2            819.9



35
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle  Month/  Number   SW in         Specialize, Staff   Implementation   Development    Types of
Year       of       Field    Skills Represented!'      Status        Objectives      Problems
Persons
Through Appraisal
Identification       10/91       4          2     A,F,H,J                     n/a             n/a            n/a
Preparation          02/91       8         3.2    A(5),F,H,I                  n/a             n/a            n/a
Preparation          03/92       1          2      F                          n/a             n/a            n/a
Preparation          04/92       5          3      A(3), H,F                  n/a             n/a            n/a
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal            06/92       8          2      A,D                        n/a             n/a            n/a
Post Appraisal       08/92       2          1      A,H                        n/a             n/a            n/a
Supervision
Supervision 1        11/92                                                                                   n/a
Supervision 2        03/93       2         0.8     A,H                         I               I             n/a
Supervision 3        11/93       5          2     A(2),C,D                     I               I             n/a
Supervision 4        11/94       5         1.8     A(2),C,D                   HS              HS             n/a
Supervision 5        10/95       2          1      A,D                         I               I             n/a
Supervision 6        11/95       2          1      A(2)                       HS              HS             n/a
Supervision 7        01/97       7          1     A(2),B,D,E,F,                I               I             n/a
Supervision 8        04/97       5          1      A,C,D,E,F                   S              HS             n/a
Completion              02/98       4          1     A,C,D,G                     HS               S             n/a
a' A = Economist; B =MIS Specialist; C  Procurement Specialist; D = Informatics Specialist.; E = Gender Specialist; F  Training Specialist;
G = Operations; H = Financing Specialist; I = Statistician; J= Project Assistant
b/ 1 = Problem Free; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems; S = Satisfactory; HS = Highly Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory



36
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section I       ti   ; :Description of Covenant                    Coven    Present  Original   Revised    Comments
Type    Status    fulfill    fulfill
Date      date
Loan
Agreement
2.02(b)    Open and maintain a special account.                     I         C       3/15/93             Completed.
3.03     Government and Bank undertake Annual Project Review.      9        C       11/30/93             Completed for
Review done in November every year.                                                             1993, 1994,
1995. 1996 and
1997.
4.01(b)    Undertake project audit including SOEs (every year in June)  1     C       6/30/94             Completed Ibr
1993. 1994.
1995, and 1996.
5.01     Satisfactory evaluation of PROBECAT prior to aggregate    9        C       3/31/95    4/15/95   Evaluation was
disbursement of US$35 million under categories (4) and (5).                                    very positive:
Bank agreed to
finance
additional
140.000
scholarships.
1.3(a)   Retroactive payments up to US$1 I million                 3         C                           US$5.5 million
was actually
disbursed.
1.3(b)    Evaluation of impact of DNE mobile units (Condition of  9. 3       C       5/15/94              51 units of
Disbursement).                                                                                  operation.
1.3(c)    Satisfactory guidelines for incentives scheme to be sent by  10    C       3/31/93             Incentives paid
3/31/93 (Condition of Disbursement)                                                            in November -
December of
1993, 1994,
1995, 1996, and
1997.
Guarantee
3.04 (a)    Raise % of cost recovery from MSMEs from 65% to 85% for  2        C                           Project in
training. By Legal Amendment of June 24. 1994, agreed to                                        accordance with
maintain at 65% throughout project life.                                                        Legal
Amendment.
3.04 (b)    Cost Recovery for consulting services to rise from 30% to  2      C                           Project in
60%. Legal Amendment of June 24, 1994. maintains cost                                          accordance with
recovery at 30% for microenterprises. and rising only up to                                     Legal
50% for small and medium enteprises.                                                           Amendment.
3.04(c)    Subsidy to be made by reimbursement not advance.         3         C                           Current
practice.
3.05(a)    Training centers to receive support under CIMO limited to 5  10    C                           Complied.
and through open bidding.
3.05(b)    Such training centers to provide discount to CIMO on    10         C                           Complied.
training courses provided.
3.06     STPS to develop satisfactory agreement with SECOFI to    12        C       3/31/93              Completed.
support MSMEs.
3.07     Training to workers associations in context of ANEPC with  10      C                            Not yet
70% cost recovery.                                                                             undertaken.
3.08     Public selection of 5 quality control labs, to receive   10         C                           Three quality
equipment, those acquiring must give a discount for services                                    control labs
provided.                                                                                      received
equipment.



37
Section                Description of Covenant                      Coven    Prsent  Original   Revised    Comments
Type     Sttus      fulfill    fulfill
Date       date
3.09 (a)    Development of satisfactory SEE Manuals.                 10        C       6/30/93              Completed -
Revision
completed
during 1996.
3.09(b)    Form a Committee to oversee SEE incentives program.       5         C       6/30/93              Completed and
very successful.
3.09(c)    Satisfactory annual participation agreements with states  12        C                            Satisfactory.
regarding financial contributions. staff social security
coverage and SEE Manual adherence.
3.1(0(a) (i   Correct operation of PROBECAT.                          10        C                            Currently
&ii)                                                                                                      satisfactory.
3.1()(A)(111)  Pilot program for recent migrants.                      10        C      12/31/93              First 60 trained
in 1993.
Additional 200
selected for
1995.
(iv)     Submit evaluation of recenit migrants program to Bank.    9         C       5/31/94    9/30/96   Evaluation of
revised program
received.
3.11 (a)    Correct selection of training institutions to receive equipment  10  C                          Satisfactory.
(limit of US$40.000 per institution)                                                             Complete report
received in
February 1998.
3.11 (b)    Such institutions to provide discount in training costs.  10       C                            Satisfactory.
3.12     Submit satisfactoty list of short. medium and long term   10         C       4/30/93              Completed.
statistics to Bank for approval.
3.13     All survey questionnaires to be cleared with Bank results  10        C                            Satisfactory
published.  t GI to give access to microdata.                                                    progress to date.
3.14     Semi-annual reports covering targets. timetables, budgets  9         C                            July 1997 report
and study TORs by January 31 and July 31.                                                        received and
satisfactory.
3.15(a)    Aniual Review, with possible action plan submitted within 1  9      C                            1997 Review
month of review (PROBECAT to be limited to 5 1.000 a year                                        completed.
Unltil satisfactory evaluation is completed).
3.15(b)    Mid-Term Review.                                          9         C      11/30/95              Report received
12/27/95.
4.01 (b)    Submit audit reports within 6 months of close of Fiscal Year.  I   C                            1996 -
completed.
4.0 1 (c)    Maintain adequate records of expenditures for Bank      9         C                            Record keeping
examiniation.                                                                                    satisfactory.
Covenant types:  I = Accounts/audits: 2 = Financial performance/review; 3 = Flow and utilization of Project Funds;
4 = Counterpart funding: 5 = Management aspects of the project.
Present Status:   C = Covenant complied with: CD = Complied with after delay, CP = Complied with partially



38
APPENDIX A
Aide Memoire
MEXICO
MISION DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO DE
MODEIRNIZACION DE MERCADOS DE TRABAJO
Banco Mundial - Prstamo 3542-ME
Febrero 9-13 de 1998
Ayuda Memoria
L bntroducd6a
l.   UIa misl& del Banco Mundial visit6 M6xico entre el 9 y 13 de febrero de 1998
con el objeto de hacer una revisi6n completa de la ejecuci6n t6cnica y fnanciera del
proyecto arriba mencionado, abarcando la totalidad del perfodo de vigencia 1992-98,
para dar cierre a dicha operaci6n. La misi6n estuvo constituida por Mari Minowa
(LCSHD economista y Jefe de misi6n), Hong Tan (PSDBE, economista principal),
Nydia Maraviglia (LCSHD, consultora) y Mauricio Mathov (ISGIS, informatica). La
misi6n tuvo reuniones con directivos y funcionarios de la Secretarfa de Trabajo y
Previsi6n Socral (M7PS, la agencia ejecutora), la Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito
Pfblico. y Nacional Financiera (NAFIN). AdemAs realiz6 una visita a Servicios
Estatales de Empleo, Unidades Promotoras de Capacitaci6n y empresas privadas
parficipantes en el programa CiMO. La misi6n desea agradecer las atenciones y
hospitalidad brindadas durante su permanencia en el pals, por los fimcionarios de ls
agencias part cipantes.
IL LIgo Genexale del Proyecto
2.    Se desea destcar. en anticipaci6n al informe de cierre del Banco, que este
proyecto ha alcanzado logros considerables en el mejoramiento del entomo y la
infraestructmua de STPS para promover y facilitar la bdsqueda de empleo, facilitar y
extender La capacitaci6n de trabajadores desplazados y desocupados, y establecer
vfaculos y dar asistencia t6nica a micro, pequeffas y medianas empresas privadas y
promover el empleo en eI sector privado. En el informe de terminacifn del proyecto
(ItrWementaxion Completion Report - ICR) se analizarAn en detalle los logros
alcanzados y las lecciones aprendidas, que se espera puedan aplicarse posteriormente
para perfeccionar el disefno de futuros proyectos de similar naturaleza. Como parte de
este proyecto tambi6n se Ilevaron a cabo numerosos estudios de evaluaci6n y anilisis de
temas de importante significado para la formulaci6n de politicas de empleo y
capacitacifn de mano de obra; el Banco jug6 un papel participatorio a lo largo de Ia
ejecuci6n del proyecto en la formulacion y realizaci6n de estos estudios y la STPS
indic6 su inters en continuar esta relaci6n con el Banco, bajo alguna modalidad de



39
asistencia tecnica que el Banco determine. La misi6n indic6 Que indagara la forma de
continuar esta asistencia.
m. Flecucla FiM R=ciera
3.    Con respecto a la ejecuci6n financiera del Prestamo STPS y NAFIN
suministraron cuadros con cifras preliminares que indican que del total del prestamo de
US$174 millones, se ha desembolsado US$170,068,495 (incluyendo US$12 millones
para la cuenta especial de los cuales se han comprobado US$8,984,772.54). Hay un
monto de US$1,916,443 de gastos cuya documentaci6n esta siendo tramitada por
NAFIN antes de ser remitidas al Banco para reembolso. El saldo pendiente a
documentar asciende a US$5,030,289.54. La STPS inform6 que estan pendiente por
documentar alrededor de US$3.5 millones de gastos ejecutados durante 1997, quedando
.iproximadamente UJS$1.5 millones del saldo del prestamo.
4.    STPS y NAFIN indicaron que el prestamo se podria desembolsar en su totalidad
antes del 30 de junio de 1998 (fecha de cierre) si el Banco autorizara un aumento en el
porcentaje de desembolso para la categorfa cuatro (Becas) de 25 % a 75 % en la que se
ban efectuado gastos documentables en 1997, asf como reasignaciones en favor de esta
categorfa, de las restantes. La misi6n indico que el Banco evaluara. a la brevedad
goible, la Rosibiidad de autorizar los ajustes solicitados.
IV. Informe de TkmIno de Instrumentaci6n del PMMT 1993-1997
5.    La STPS entreg6 a la misi6n un borrador del "Informe de Termino de
Instrumentacifn del Programa de Modernizaci6n de los Mercados de Trabajo 1993-97"
para discusi6n y comentarios. Una revisi6n preliminar de este informe permiti6 a la
misi6n comprobar que esta presentacion, con algunas revisiones y agregados, sera de
suma utilidad como un registro de la historia del proyecto y sus resultados, asf como
para la preparacion del informe del Banco. STPS invit6 a la misi6n a enviar
comentarios sobre el informe y se comprometio a finalizar el mismo para fimes de mayo
de 1998 El Banco enviari sus comentarios antes de fines de febrero. 1998.
T. C            Legai
6.    La misi6n, coqnuntamente con funcionarios de NAFIN, SHCP y STPS, revis6 el
cumplimiento de los compromisos de los Convenios de Garantia v de Prestamo y
romprob6 en general un cumplimiento satisfactorio. En unos pocos casos, la misi6n
solicit6 evidencia adicional de cumplimiento. La STPS entreg6, durante la reuni6n
fWal, los siguites documentos:



40
Convenio de Gr
a) Clausula 3.04: Con respecto a los porcentajes de contribuci6n estipulados
para las emipresas de acuerdo con su tamafno (micro, pequehas, medianas),
que reciben capacitaci6n o asistencia tecnica por parte de CIMO. Ia STPS
proporcion6 un cuadro indicando los porcentajes utilizados y su variaci6n en
el tiempo.
b) Clausula 3.05 (a) Parte A.4 (b): Un cuadro especificando cuantos centros
de capacitaci6n fueron equipados (el Convenio especificaba un nmiximo de
cinco) y los costos.
C) Cliausula 3.05 (b): Evidencia de parte de STPS de haber entrado en contratos
renovables con los centros que recibieron equipo, para que los mismos
ofrecieTan capacitaci6n al proyecto, con descuentos. Se entreg6 el informe
de segulimiento y ejemplo de contratos firmados.
d) Clausula 3R07: Referente a la capacitaci6n de instructores pertenecientes a
asociaciones de trabajadores y al limite de reembolso por parte del proyecto.
evidencia de Los casos de colaboraci6n.
c) C1ha 3.08L Selecci6n de 5 laboratorios de control de calidad que
recibirian equipo y se comprometerian a proporcionar servicios de descuento
a empresas en ei proyecto. Se entreg6 la lista de los
laboraoios ayudados y ejemplo de contratos firmados.
-CQnveni de Pristamo
a) ClAusula 4.01 2b): STPS indic6 que el Informre de Auditona para el
cjercicio de 1997 serb presentado al Banco antes del 30 de junio de 1998.
VL Evawdu6n Espedfca de Programas
7.    La STPS presenl6 la metodologfa y los resultados principales de los estudios de
evaluaci6n de los programas CIMO y PILEOT realizados durante 1997. La misi6n.
los consultores y fincionarios de la STPS, realizaron sesiones intensivas de discusi6n
sobre dichos estudios. Estos estudios representan un esfuerzo encomiable de parte de
la STPS en evaluar rigurosamente los impactos de los programas financiados por el
proyecto con el objetivo de mejorar la eficiencia y eficacia de los mismos. Los
resultados cualitativos obtenidos son significativamente positivos en general, mientras
que los resultados cuantitativos son mixtos. La versi6n recibida de los estudios se
considera preliminar, la cual todavia se podra mejorar para la presentaci6n definitiva.
Basado en la discusi6n sostenida con los funcionarios de la STPS y una rapida revisi6n
de los estudios recibidos, la misi6n proporciona sus comentarios y sugerencias
preliminares en el Anexo 1 de este documento.



41
VIL Sstaea de Informaci6n
;s.    Ia misi6n re'is6 los avances realizados durante el periodo total de la ejecuci6n
del proyecto en el fortalecimiento del sistema de informacifn del mercado laboral.
Todos los aspectos del programa -tanto hardware como software-- han sido ejecutados
satisfactoriamente. Los resultados principales del programa se resumen en el Anexo 2.
Donaciao Quintero Salazar                   Mari Minowa
Coordinador General de Polfticas,           Oficial del Proyecto
Estudios y Bstadisticas del Trabajo           Banco Mundial
STPS
lorena Gabilondo Alpizar             Juan ManuI      rdo Sosa
Subdirectora de Proyectos Sociales  Gerente de Financ  jentos Multilaterales
SHCP                                 N
M6io, D1.P.
16 de febrero de 1998



42
APPENDIX B
Government's Contribution to the ICR
Government's report on Project Completion available in the project files.



43
APPENDIX C
Government's Comments on the ICR
The Borrower's comments have been incorporated into the text.



MAP SECTION



o                                                                                                                        /
s 8
I~~~~ \.    i~0~ (1        O2
N  C                    r ,              X,                                                       -~~y



