Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11095-ME
STAFY APPRAISAL REPORT
EICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1992
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted dutdrlb o d my be ue by recipkies ouly In the perfonsuae of
their official dutie Its contets may so odtrwis be dlond wibout World Bn athuIZlO.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =    Peso (MEX$)
US$1.00                    =    3,112 Pesos (July 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                           British/US Equivalent
1 kilogram (kg)            =    2.20 pounds (b)
1 liter (1)                =    0.26 gallons (gal)
I cubic meter (m3)         =    1,000 liters
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CGPEET  General Coordination Unit for Labor Market Policies, Studies and Statistics (Coordinaci6n
General de Poifticas, Estudios y Estadfsticas del Trabajo)
CIMO Multiple Support Service Program to MSMEs (Programa de Calidad Integral y
Modernizaci6n)
CONACYT  National Science and Technology Council (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologfa)
CONALEP  National System for Vocational and Technical Education (Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n
Tanica Profesional)
CTM  Mexican Confederation of Labor (Confederaci6n de los Trabajadores Mexicanos)
DAO  Directorate for Occupational Analysis (Direcci6n de Andlisis Ocupacional)
DEPE  Directorate of Employment Studies and Policies (Direccion de Estudios y PoUlticas de
Empleo)
DGE  General Directorate for Employment (Direcci6n General de Empleo)
DSNE Directorate for Employment Services (Direcci6n del Servicio Nacional de Empleo)
ENEU National Urban Employment Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Empleo Urbano)
MNEA National Institute for Adult Education (Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n para Adultos)
INEGI National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadfsnca, Geografla y Informdtica)
MSMEs Micro, Small and Medium size Enterprises
NAFTA  North American Free Trade Agreement
NAFIN  National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera, S.N.CC)
OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PACTO  Pact for Stability, Competitiveness, and Employment (Pacto para la Estabilidad, la
Competnvitdad y el Empleo)
PECE Pact for Stability and Economic Growth (Pacto para la Estabilidad y el Crecimiento
Economico)
PROBECAT  Labor Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitacion para 7rabajadores)
SECOFI Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development (Secretarla de Comercio y Fomento
Industrial)
SEE State Employment Service (Servicio Estatal de Empleo)
SEP  Secretariat of Education (Secretarfa de Educaci6n Pulblica)
SET  General Directorate for Labor Statistics (Subcoordinaci6n de Estadishcas del Trabajo)
SHCP  Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretarfa de Hacienda y Crcdito Piblico)
SIAL Information Center on Labor Market Issues (Servicio de Informacion sobre Asuntos
Laborates)
SNE  National Employment Service (Servicio Nacional de Emplco)
SPID General Directorate for Institutional Programs and Documentation (Subcoordinaci6n de
- Programas Ins*itucionales y Documentaci6n)
STPS Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (Secretarfa del Trabajo y Pretsi6n Social)
UPC  Regional Productivity Support Unit (Unidad Promotora de Conmpetiviidad)
USI Multiple Service Support Unit to MSMEs (Unidad de Sevicios Integrados)



FOR OMCIL Use ONLY
LABOR MARKE AND PRODUCllVITY IAUNCDENT ROS
TABL3E OF COQ     lI                                   Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                 .......................................  iii
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST .             ........................................   vi
BASIC DATA SHEET ...............................................   vii
DEFINMTONS  .................................................   viii
I. INTRODUCTION   ...............................................    I
H. THE LABOR MARKET  ...........................................    I
A. OVERVIEW                       ..1.......... I
B.  LABOR MARKET ISSUES                     .....................                      2
1.     Labor Productivity Growth  ........        .....................   2
2.     Unemployment and Labor Mobility ........................   5
3.     The Absorpdon Capacity of the Labor Market .....         ............   7
4.     Monitoring and Policy-making Capacity  .....................   8
C.    THE ROLE OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR IN PRODUCTIVITY
ENHANCEMENT AND LABOR MARKETS                             . .                   8
D.  STATUS OF EXISTING LABOR MARKET PROGRAMS  . .10
1.  Support to Enterprise Training .10
2. Employment Programs .11
3.   Labor Market Infbrmation and Analysis .14
E.     GOVERNMENT STRATEGY               ...............        .................  14
F.     BANK EXPEREENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED  ..................  15
1.     Training Sector Experience in Mexico  ......................  15
2.     Lessons Learned from Training Sector Experience Bank-Wide  ... .... 16
3.     Incorporation of Lessons into Project Design  ..................  17
G.    RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT  ........ ..1............  I
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mexico in June/July 1992.
The mission was composed of Mmes./Messrs. Michelle Riboud (Mission Leader/Sr. Economist,
LA2HR), Ana Revenga (Economist, LA2C1), Hong Tan (Economist, ENIN), Bo Dahlborg (Sr.
Technical Education Specialist, EC3HR), Mauricio Mathov (lnformation Tecinology Specialist,
ASTIF), Maria Elena Anderson (Operations Analyst, Consultant), and Muriel Aza (Consultant). Mr.
John Innes (LA2HR) finalized the report at headquarters. Messrs. Rainer B. Stbckhan (LA2DR) and
Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR) are the Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this
operation. Peer reviewers for this project were Messrs. Sweder Van Wijnbergen (EC2DR) and Neil
Roger (LA2C1). Messrs. Vinh Nguyen, Darren Dorkin, and David Warren (LA2HR) contributed to
the report at headquartrs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
m. THE PROJECT   ............................................                                                           19
A.       PROJECT OJECTIVES                      ...................................    19
B.       PROJECT COMPONENTS                        ..................................    19
C.       PROJECT DESCRITON                               ..................................   20
1.       Productivity Enhancement Component  ........                   ..        ............   20
2.   Labor Market Adjustment Component    ..                                        ........... 25
3.       Information, Policy and Institutional Stre ening Component ....                       ...  31
IV. PROJECT COST, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITS ..... ....... 36
A.       PROJECT COSTS   .......................................   36
B.   RECURRENT COSTS . ..................................... 37
C.       FINANCING  PLAN   ......................................   38
D.   PROCUREMENT ........................................ 38
E.    DISBURSEMENTS ....................................... 41
F.       ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING   .............................   42
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...................... 43
A.       PROJECT READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION   ..................  43
B.       PROJECT ORGANIZATION    ................................   43
C.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION  ................. 43
D.       IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE  .............................   44
E.       MONITORING  TARGETS  ..................................   45
F.    LOAN SUPERVISION, ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS ....                                             ...... 45
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND  RISKS   ....... ....... ..                                   ...................   47
A.       PROJECT BENEFITS  .....................................   47
B.       IMPACT ON  WOMEN   ....................................   47
C.       PROJECT RISKS  ........................................   47
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..................... 48
Recommendation   .............................................   50
ANNEXES (see also detailed Annex List)
1.       Draft Sector Policy Statement ......................................   53
2.       Labor Market Statistics ..........................................   61
3.       PROBECAT and CIMO  Programs ...................................   67
4.       Sector Organization  ............................................   80
5.       Projec  Description  ............................................   83
6.       Project Costs .             ...............................................  113
7.       Disbursement Schedule ..........................................  120
8.    Key Monitoring Indicators and Implementation Targets ...................... 122
9.       Key Docments Available in the Poject File  ............................  129
MAP - IBRD No. 24094



- iii -
MEXIC
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECR
Br:wn~          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Gur:nt~r        United Mexican States
Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS)
Ag=
Beiciaries:    Entrepreneurs and employees of micro, small and medium-size enterprises (MSMEs),
enterprise associations, unemployed and displaced workers, and rural migrants
Annl0t:         US$174.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate.
ProjectMThe objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Mexico in
Obectives:      promoting private sector-led growth and in easing the costs of labor mobility and labor
market adjustment by: (i) increasing the productivity and competitiveness of micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises; (ii) reducing costs incurred by employees and
employers of hiring and job search, and providing education and training opportunities
for displaced and unemployed workers, with special attention to women; and (iii)
improving the availability, timeliness and dissemination of labor market information and,
more broadly, the capacity to monitor labor market changes and to design, evaluate and
implement relevant policies and programs in the sector.
Projet          'The proposed project with a total cost of US$355.9 million would consist of three major
esaripti:       components: (a) Productivity Enhancement Comonent (28% of total costs, including
contingencies) would support activities aimed at increasing the productivity and
competitiveness of MSMEs by: (i) extending the coverage of the pilot in-service
training program (Multiple Support Service Program to MSMEs, CIMO) initiated under
the Manpower Training Project (Ln. 2876-ME in 1987) and expanding the scope of
support services provided to MSMEs; (ii) strengthening coordination between CIMO and
other institutions rendering support to MSMEs; and (iii) promoting the gradual
privatization of CIMO by increasing the involvement of enterprise associations in its
financing and operation and gradual transformation of Regional Productivity Support
Units (UPCs); (b) Labor Marklet Adustment Co   t (61% of total costs, including
contingencies) would improve the coverage and efficiency of State Employment Services
(SEEs) and provide education and training opportunities for displaced workers, through:
(i) strengthening the operation and management of the SEEs, and improving the quality
and availability of information on local and regional labor markets; and (ii) providing
improved retraining programs for approximtely 300,000 displaced and unemployed
workers, meeting stringent selection criteria; and (iii) introducing, on a pilot basis, an
education and training program for under-qualified rural migrants who are ineligible for



- iv -
the regular reraining program; (c)   n&   oi  and
CoXoneQ (11 % of total costs, including contingencies) would improve the availability,
timoliness and diswmtion of labor market information, and strengthen institutional
capacity to design, operate and evduate labor market policies and programs, including:
(i) supporting the development of an information system and the undertaking of in-depth
surveys to provide a basis for periodic and systematic labor market data generation and
analysis; (ii) promoting an extensive program of studies and resarch on labor market
issues, programs and policies; (iii) fostering regular publication and dissemination of
labor market information; (iv) instituting a systematic framework for program
evaluation; and (v) strengthening STPS's management and technical capacity through
human resource development and modernization of data management system.
frgjw           The project would increae productivity and competitiveness in MSMEs, creating higher
earnings and employment opportunities for Mexican workers. About 35,000 enterprises,
employing about 1.0 million workers, are expected to be reached. Project benefits,
however, would extend beyond the participating enterprises, as the project is intended to
have an important demonstration effect. Through the increased involvement of private
enterprise in MSME support programs and the promotion of closer inter-institutional
links, the project would also foster improvements in the quality of training services
supplied to enterprises and a faster rate of adoption of new technologies through
provision of a better trained labor force. The labor market adjustment process would be
eased as the improved quality of services provided to unemployed and displaced workers
would reduce the costs of hiring and job search, improve the job matching process and
thus provide better opportunities for employment stability and subsequent wage growth.
Approximately 2 million unemployed workers are expected to benefit from placement
services over the project life. About 300,000 unemployed workers whose current skills
fail to match those in demand would also benefit from the training to be provided.
The cost effectivenass of the retraining programs will be enhanced by targeting the
training to those groups (workers with at least completed primary education and some
work experience) where evaluation has demonstrated the highest rates of return to such
training. The results of the evaluation showed a 20 to 30% monthly salary increase for
male trainee with some prior work experience. For male target trainees, the evaluation
showed that benefits of program participation outweigh the costs of the program within 3
months of starting employment. For younger i--nex nced workers and rural migrants,
the project is expected to improve their entry conditions in the urban labor market. In
addition to sharing the general benefits of the project listed above, women would benefit
from the improvements to be introduced in the training programs and reduction of labor
market barriers which hamper the realization of the full benefits of training by females.
Finally, the project would enhance the Government's capacity to design, monitor and
evaluate labor market policies and programs, thus contributing to a more efficient use of
public resources.
The main risks are: (a) a possible decline in Government commitment to project
objectives after the change in administration in 1994. The risk is small given the
existing strong support for current economic policies and the importance given to
productivity and mobility issues in light of the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA); (b) insufficient budgetary allocations to guarantee program sustainability
beyond project completion. This risk will be minimized by the coverage of trainee
stipends and recurrent costs on a declining basis, by increased private sector
participation i the fcing and operation of the CIMO program, and by rigorous



- v -
monitoring of budgetary allocations during the annual project implementation reviews;
(c) slower than expected acceptance by enterprises of the productivity enhancement
actions. This risk quite small given growing support by private enterprises of
interventions initiated under the ongoing Bank-supported Manpower Training Project and
will be further mitigated by strengthened program management and availability of
services; and (d) project complexity and the fact that there are many implementing
agencies at different levels may limit the achievement of the project objectives. This
risk will be mitigated through the early identification and resolution of any problems
which develop through close supervision, and the mid-term and annual project reviews.



- vi -
ATIpn PROJRT COST
Project ConWonents                                                   Local  Forign  Total
-USS million
Productivity E1L                                                              JA   82-
Labor Market Adjutment                                              1212        6    1294
Strengthening of SEEs                                               36.6       1.1   37.7
Retraining Program                                                 155.3      5.4  160.7
Information, Policy, and
Institutional Strengthening 4°
Labor Market Information System                                     15.8      3.3   19.1
Institutional Strengthening                                         14.7      0.7   15.4
TOTAL BASE COST                                                         8      12    322 1
Physical Contingencies                                               1.3       0.6    1.9
Price Contingencies                                                 30.7       1.2   31.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST1'                                                341.       I4.I  3S2
Fnaindg lno                                                          Local  Foregn  Total
-JUS$ million
Federal Government                                                   114.9      0.0  114.9
State Governments                                                     18.0      0.0   18.0
Private Enterprises                                                  49.0       0.0   49.0
IBRD                                                                 159.9     14.1  174.0
TOTAL                                                               341 8       4  1=9
Estimatd  Disbmures                                               Banl Fiscal Year
(in US$ millions)
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Annual                                             16.OV' 28.0  40.0  40.0  32.0   18.0
Cumulative                                         16.0  44.0   84.0  124.0  156.0  174.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
1I Include hae of about US$8.1 ndlion.
2 Include. Spocil Acount dqeit of US$12.0 mlion and up to US$1 1.0 million of re1toa6ve financing for dlipiI
expenditures incurred aer July 1, 1992.



- vii -
BASIC DATA S TELF
Mexico         YE
A. General Countrv Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                            2,490          1990
GDP (US$ Millions)                                              235.5          1990
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                               1,958          1992
Population Estimate (Millions)                                   81.2          1990
Urban Population (% of Total)                                      71          1990
B. Sodal Indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                                        6          1989
Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                      2.1          1989
Total Fertility Rate                                              3.4          1989
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 Live Births)                      40          1989
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)                                 69.7          1989
Children under-5 Malnourished (%)                                14.0          1988
Illiteracy Rate (Population 10 and over) (%)                      11.0         1990
Average Number of Years of Schooling (Population 12 and over)     6.1          1988
C. Labor Fo  Statscs
Total Labor Force (Millions)                                     24.0          1990
Male (Millions)                                                18.4          1990
Female (Millions)                                               5.6          1990
Participation Rates
Male (Age 15-64) (%)                                           86.0          1991
Female (Age 15-64) (%)                                         36.0          1991
Average Number of Years of Schooling of the Labor Force (Age 12 and over)
Urban: Men (Years)                                              7.8          1988
Women                                                     7.1          1988
Rural: Men (Years)                                              5.0          1988
Women                                                     4.5          1988
D. E mpIymfL and iY" Statishs
Total Employment (Millions)                                      23.4          1990
Distribution by Sector (%)
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing                              22.6          1990
Mining & Manufacturing                                         21.0          1990
Construction                                                    6.8          1990
Services & non Specified                                       49.6          1990
Urban Unemployment Rate                                           2.75         1991
Average Daily Minimum Wage (USS)                                 3.60          1991
Average Hourly Wage (Urban) (USS)
Men (USS)                                                       1.20         1988
Women (USS)                                                      .95         1988
Sourc:  Wold Bank Wod DodmoReort. 1991; WoridTab    i  Edton); STPS/INEGI Nabonal Emloymat
Surveys, 1988, 1991; INEGI, Reswm General X7 Cso Cl de Pobladln y Uvienda, 1990.



- viii -
DEPINrIrIQS
Crude Death Rue                  The number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given year.
Infant Mortality Rate            The number of deaths of infants under one year of age in a given
year per 1,000 live births in that year.
Life Expetancy at Birth          The average number of years an infant would live if the current
age/sex-specific mortality trends prevailing at the time of birth were
to continue.
Total Fertility Rate             The average number of children who would be born alive to a
woman during her lifetime if she were to pass through her
childbearing years conforming to the age-specific fertility rates of a
given year.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.1.  Over the past six years, Mexico has successfully implemented a program of sweeping economic
reforms and made major strides towards a complete restructuring of its economy. Until 1985 the Mexican
economy was highly protected, dominated by state-run industries and heavily burdened by debt. As a result
of the policy changes and reforms that have taken place since then, the economy and Mexico's prospects
today are significantly different. A fast and far-reaching trade reform has turned Mexico into one of the
more open economies in the world. Domestically, the reforms have been equally comprehensive. The
financial sector has been restructured and liberalized, fiscal expenditures have been cut dramatically, and the
tax system has been overhauled. Key sectors, such as transport and telecommunications, have been
deregulated. Moreover, in a still ongoing process of privatization, more than two thirds of state enterprises
have been sold, closed or spun off. More recently, reforms have extended to the agriculture sector. The
rural financial system has been restructured, output pricing has been substantially liberalized and the ejido
system (Mexico's system of communal farming ownership) is being reformed.
1.2.   The Government's success in stabilizing, liberalizing and privatizing the economy has set the stage
for long-term economic development. However, sustaining private sector-led growth will demand more
than an adequate set of incentives; it will require finance for investment, improved physical infrastructure,
and, especially, an educated and skilled labor force. The latter is critical to the country's ability to increase
the productivity and living standards of its workers, to produce higher quality goods and to compete on
international markets. Moreover, full success of the adjustment program requires policies that are effective
in promoting social mobility and a more equal distribution of the gains from economic reform. These
objectives can be achieved only through sustained investments in human capital.
1.3.   Further liberalization of the economy through the expected North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) with Canada and the U.S. will accentuate the need for an educated and skilled labor force.
NAFTA will represent an unprecedented integration of large economies at very different stages of
development. Mexico's capability to compete with more developed U.S. and Canadian producers will hinge
on its ability to increase the productivity of its workers, adopt and improve new production processes and
technologies, train less-skilled workers, and develop new skills as the structure of demand evolves. It will
also require implementation of policies aimed at increasing labor mobility and facilitating the flow of labor
between expanding and contracting sectors and regions.
1.4.   Conscious of these needs, the Mexican Government is now giving high priority to the development
of human resources through investments in human capital both before and after entry into the labor market.
It is also making major efforts to reduce the cost of labor mobility and labor market adjustment. The
proposed project would assist the Government in meeting these goals.
II. TBE LABOR MARKET
A. OVERVIEW
2.1.   Over the last four decades, economic development has brought substantial changes in the structure
of the economy and the sectoral distribution of the labor force. The proportion of the labor force working
in the primary sector has fallen from about 58% in 1950 to 23% in 1990. Employment in the



- 2 -
manufacturing and service sectors has increased more than threefold to 74% of the labor force.-1 Output
from these sectors now accounts for 92% of GDP. In response to the emergence of new work
opportunities, important migration flows towards urban areas and high-income states have taken place As a
result, the proportion of the population living in rural areas has declined from 57% in 1950 to 29% today.
'Me skill levels of the population and labor force have increased significantly as illiteracy rates have fallen
from 52% in 1950 to 11 % in 1990. At present, 56% of the total population (10 and over) has at least
completed primary education (6 years of schooling) and 37% has 7 years of schooling or more (see Annex
2, Table 1). For the younger cohorts these proportions are much higher: 75% of the population 20-29
years of age has at least finished primary school, and 56% has 7 years of schooling or more. These
changes have been paralleled by an increase in the standards of living of the population: in spite of the
sharp economic contraction between 1982 and 1989, income per capita has more than doubled since 1950.
B.    LABOR MARKET ISSUES
2.2.   The main issues to be addressed in the labor market are related to: (a) labor productivity growth;
(b) unemployment and labor mobility; (c) the capacity of the labor market to absorb new labor force
entrants and migrant flows from rural areas; and (d) the monitoring and policy-making capacity of labor
market agencies and institutions.
1.    Labor Productivity Growth
2.3.   Labor productivity growth in Mexican manufacturing has been sluggish. Between 1982 and 1989,
output per hour of labor in manufacturing grew at a rate of 1.5% per year. In contrast, output per hour in
manufacturing in the U.S. and Canada, grew by 4.2% and 2.5% per year respectively.' Other OECD
countries also experienced higher productivity increases during the same period: output per hour grew by
4.1 % per year in Japan, 3.4% per year in France, and 5.5% in the U.K. Possible explanations for these
differences is that Mexican workers are less educated and incur substantially less on-the-job human capital
accumulation than do their counterparts in the group of industrialized and developing countries listed in
Table 2.1. Evidence for this hypothesis is provided by the fact that experience-wage profiles for Mexican
workers are flatter than those estimated for these countries. As shown in Table 2.1, the increase in wages
associated with an additional year of work experience for males is 3.8% in Mexico, as compared to 8.1% in
the U.S, 8.4% in Japan, and 9.1 % in France. This is low even when compared to countries at a similar
level of development and with comparable education indicators, such as Brazil (6.2%) and Colombia
(5.8%). In contrast, it is similar to what could be observed 15 years ago in the poorest region of Spain.
Given the correlation between wage growth, on-the-job training and productivity observed in most countries,
these differences can be associated with less post-school investment in human capital and lower productivity
growth.
2.4. Direct evidence on the proportion of workers receiving training reinforces the argument that
Mexican workers experience less post-school training than do their counterparts in other countries.
According to data from the training module of the 1991 National Labor Force Survey, only 24% of
Mexican workers report having received training to improve their skills on the job. In contrast,
I/ The remaWi 3 S co<_lponds to die caey of *u_qecfied.
V TheMe figurp rq t aveage for 1982-1989. U.S. Bureau of Labor Stics, MonIv 1    Review March IM. So
Annex 2.



-3 -
approximately 38% of U.S. workers report having received some training on their current job, even though
investment in worker training in the U.S. is low by OECD standardsY
Table 2.1: Growth of Wages with Experiences
(Males)
%Facanee(1)          A
to Additional Year of Experience
Mexico (1988)                                               3.8
U.S. (1959)                                               8.1i
Japan (1979)                                               8.4
France (1976)                                              9.1
Brazil (1970#^                                              6.2
Colombia (1984)                                             5.8
Southern Spain (1978)                                          3.7
' Figures for Brazil refer only to formal urban sector.
2.5.   Sizeable differences exist in factor productivity growth according to firm size. Low labor
productivity appears to be particularly prevalent in micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs),
which account for a large fraction of employment in Mexico. MSMEs represent 71 % of total employment,
53 % of employment in manufacturing, 95 % of employment in the retail sector, and 73 % of employment in
services. Within manufacturing, micro and small enterprises account for 48% of employment in the food
industry, 68% of employment in textiles, shoes and leather, and 62% of employment in wood and paper
products. These are precisely the sectors experiencing lower labor productivity growth, and lower total
factor productivity growth. Moreover, within sectors, total factor productivity growth is positively
correlated with enterprise size (see Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3).
2.6.   Lower labor productivity growth in MSMEs is associated with less investment in worker training.
As Table 2.2 shows, only 9% of workers in micro enterprises and 15% of those in small firms report
having received any form of in-service training, as compared to 30%  of workers in large firms. Less
investment in training translates into lower on-the-job human capital accumulation, less ability to introduce
innovation and adjust to technological change, and thus, lower productivity growth. Several factors explain
why MSMEs invest less in the training of their workers:
2/ Figures for prevalence of training in the U.S. are from Lee A. Lillard and Hong W. Tan, "Privat Sector Training,"
foithcoming in R. Fhrenberg (ed.), RoBach in Labo }EcoUnmif JAI Prs, 1992.
4/ Sources: Estimated retums obained fiom regression of log(earnings) on schooling, excperinco and experience-squared.
Estmates for Mexico are mission calculations using data from the 1988 National Labor Force Survey. Esimates for die U.S. are
from J. Mincer, Schooling. Exverience and Earnings. New York: Columbia University Press, 1974. For Japan from J. Mincer,
'Wage Structures and Labor Turnover in the U.S. and Japan," in Journal of the Jaluoew and International Economies, 1988. For
France from M. Riboud, "Labour-Market Response to Changs in Cohort Size: Tbe Cae of France," in European Journal of
PE asiaon, 1987. For Spain from M. Riboud and P. Herandez Igleias, "Inversiona en capital hwuano de los hombres y
equiibro en el mercado de traba jo, i Inhsdao Regioal de Desarroo, Formadin v Ud&AcOn de Recrsos Humanos en
Sevilla: UnverAidad de S.WU., 1983. For Brazil fiom N. Birdsall and J. Bebrman, 'Why Do Males Earn More Than
Females in Urban Brazil?," in N. Birdsall and R. Sabot, Unfair Advanta. Wasington DC: The World Bank, 1991. For Colombia
from G. PIachaopoulos, A.M. Aniaada and E. Velez, "Earni  and Education Among the Self-Employed in Colombia,"
forthcoming in Bulletin of Latin American Rosearch, 1992.



-4-
(a)    Workers in MSMEs have less formal schooling than workers in larger enterprises (soe Table
2.2). Given that schooling and post-school training tend to be complementary invetments,
this would explain the lower demand for training in MSMEs;
(b)    MSMEs in Mexico are likely to be less innovative than larger firms and use more
standardized and outdated technology. Thus, skills learned on the job are likely to be less
firm-specific; this, in turn, diminishes the firm's incentive to provide training. Table 2.2
(column 4) shows that the proportion of training financed by the firm is much lower in small
than large firms;
Table 2.2: Schooling and Training By Firm Size
All Males, 1988
Avg. Yrs.       % Workers Receiving In-Service Training
School       All Types    In Work-place  Paid by Firm
Micro (1-15)             7.1             9%             5%             3%
Small (16-100)            8.0            15%            10%             10%
Medium (101-250)            8.2            22%            17%            17%
Large (251+)              10.1           30%            23%            23%
Source: Mission estimates from 1988 National Labor Force Survey.
(c)    MSMEs experience higher turnover than larger firms.5' High employment turnover
discourages the firm from investing in its workers, by reducing the probability of recouping
the investment. At the same time, lack of on-the-job-training is likely to exacerbate
employment turnoverY High labor turnover in MSMEs is thus both cause and
consequence of lower on-the-job human capital formation;
(d)    Scale economies, if they exist and are important, may limit the capacity of MSMEs to
provide training. If transaction costs linked to the organization and management of training
are substantial, firms needing to train only a few workers may find that the costs of
investing in training exceed the returns. Because of scale economies, MSMEs may be less
able to provide in-house training and rely more on external institutions than larger firms.
However, such external training may be less effective and more costly than in-house
training.1' Furthermore, the benefits of training may be harder to achieve in MSMEs
because of fewer in-firm rotation or promotion possibilities for trained employees;
(e)    More limited access to capital markets tend to prevent MSMEs from borrowing to finance
training. More stringent constraints imply less investment in training; AND
I/ Turaovu am be nwsu_d indircly by ing  of _mn ro oe job. Miion sednaf um     1991 Naioal Labor Pore
svindi    tt mbe inlgefirisSOSlogrnin maro andesma 5firms.
J/ Bviden fm ote oouzre sggst a oug lik betwe  fonma  of human captal on the job and wodcr attachment lo
the finn.
2/ See evidene on dhis point in Lillard and Tan (199).



- 5 -
(f)    Although Mexican Labor Law mandates that training programs be included as part of
collective bargaining agreements, in practice it is difficult to enforce compliance. This is
particularly true for MSMEs, which are less likely to be caught deviating from the law than
larger enterprises.
2.7.   Lower labor productivity growth in MSMEs can also be attributed to other factors complementary to
training, such as the level of technological know-how, marketing and managerial skills, knowledge of export
markets, and coordinated relationships with suppliers and customers. Also economies os scale in
information usage may create an incentive for larger-scale operators to acquire more information than small-
scale operators.F
2.    Unemployment and Labor Mobiity
2.8.   A superficial review of unemployment figures in Mexico raises little concern about unemployment
levels. Official statistics drawn from employment surveys report a low open unemployment rate, which
currently stands at 2.8%. An analysis of recent trends indicates that even in the worst years of the
adjustment process and despite the rapid and far-reaching reforms, average official unemployment rates did
not increase beyond 6.1%. The stabilization and liberalization process has evolved without social unrest,
monitored by the Pact for Stability and Economic Growth (Pacto para la Estabilidad, la Competitvidad y cl
Empleo, PACTO), later renamed Pact for Stability, Competitiveness, and Employment (Pacto para la
Estabilidady cl Crecimiento Economico, PECE), a carefully engineered political agreement between labor,
business and the Government.
2.9.   However, a deeper analysis of the nature of unemployment suggests that these aggregate figures
hide important features of the functioning of the labor market, and thus raise doubts as to its capacity to
adjust rapidly to the profound structural changes that are expected to take place. Several issues stand out in
this regard.
2.10. The first has to do with the limited coverage and relevance of the official unemployment numbers.
The open unemployment rate is an average for individuals aged 12 and over in the 16 main urban areas; it
provides no information about unemployment in the rural areas, where the bulk of the poor are located.
Perhaps more important, it is based on a loose definition of employment that counts an individual as
employed if he/she works at least one hour per week. Data from the 1991 National Employment Survey
suggest that approximately 3.7% of employed workers work less than 15 hours a week. Counting these
workers as unemployed would yield an unemployment rate of 6.4%, more than double the official rate.
2.11. A second issue is the low degree of labor force attachment prevalent among many demographic
gtoups. As is common in developed and other developing countries, unemployment spells often end with
temporary withdrawal from the labor force (i.e., the unemployed stop searching for a job).2' For 24% of
unemployed men, unemployment spells end in withdrawal from the labor force. For young men between
the ages of 12 and 20, this percentage is much higher at 37%. For 53% of unemployed women,
unemployment spells end in withdrawal from the labor force; while for young women 12 to 20 years of age,
I/ See G. Wozniak, Human Capitl, Information, and the Early Adoption of New Technology,' Tho JOrnal of Hu
Row       Vol 22, No 1, Winer 1987.
2t Siia paorn have beon docunmewd for the U.S. and Peru, amoog odias. Por the U.S., mm Kim B. Clat and Lawmoo H
Suuners, -Labor Market Dynamics and Un_yobyme: A  ada     in Brooldnn Pamn on Economc Actvitv 1979:1.



- 6 -
the corresponding proportion is 55 %. A substantial percentage of those who withdraw from the labor force
reenter within 3 months (55% of men and 41 % of women), yet while they are out of the labor force these
"discouraged" workers are not counted as unemployed. Surprisingly, an important group of discouraged
workers is comprised of able-bodied males, particularly among the young and less-educated, who appear to
be idle: these individuals are not working, report that they are not actively seeking a job (i.e., they are out
cf the labor force), but are able to work and are not engaged in other activities such as studying or
housework. If these individuals are counted as unemployed, the aggregate unemployment rate increases
from 2.8% to 5.5% in 1991.
2.12. A third issue that deserves attention is the structure of unemployment and how it affects different
socio-economic groups. An analysis of the determinants of unemployment in Mexico reveals that the
probability of being unemployed decreases with age (up to the age of 45 years) and with schooling.L0' The
bulk of unemployment is comprised of young individuals with relatively low levels of education. About
70% of unemployed males are between the ages of 16 and 30; approximately 20% have less than primary
education and 50% have 6 to 9 years of schooling. As regards the duration of unemployment, the mean
length of a spell of unemployment for men is 5 to 6 months. However, this average hides substantial
variation across individuals. Nearly 65% of unemployed males report spells of unemployment that end
within four months. On the other hand, about 20% report spells that have lasted over a year. In explaining
differences among individuals, age appears to be an important factor contributing to longer duration.
2.13. A fourth, and crucial, issue is the lack of employment stability for a significant fraction of the
population. Although the unemployment rate is low in Mexico, employment turnover is very high.
Individuals appear to suffer numerous, although short, spells of unemployment between jobs.
Approximately 10% of all male workers and 14.5% of female workers suffer at least one spell of
unemployment over the course of a year. These probabilities are much higher for young workers between
the ages of 12 and 20: 25% of males and 34% of females in this age group experience at least one spell of
unemployment during a one-year period. If idle male workers are counted among the unemployed, the
fraction of individuals reporting at least one spell of unemployment over the year climbs to 19% for all
males and 54% for males aged 12 to 20. In the U.S. the corresponding figure for youth aged 17 to 27 is
28 %. As these figures indicate, a substantial proportion of the labor force, and especially the young, has
little employment stability. Given the documented link between turnover and on-the-job training in most
countries, this low degree of employment stability is most likely both cause and consequence of lack of on-
the-job training.
2.14. This brief review of the main characteristics of unemployment suggests several conclusions. First,
although unemployment rates remain moderate compared to some other countries, perhaps because of the
absence of unemployment compensation schemes, they are higher than what official statistics indicate.
Considering as unemployed (or quasi-unemployed) both those with less than 15 hours of work per week and
those who are not actively seeking a job would raise the unemployment rate from 2.8% to about 9%.
Second, the analysis of the structure of unemployment suggests that the nature of the phenomenon varies
greatly by socioeconomic group. Those most at risk of being unemployed are the young and those with
relatively low levels of schooling. However, once unemployed, adult workers experience longer
unemployment duration. This suggests that unemployment programs must be designed to meet the
particular needs of their target groups. Third, the need for labor mobility is likely to increase substantially
10/ Sec A. Revenga ad M. Riboud (1992), *U_ntloyma in Maoo: An Andyms of its Chacterixtic and Dterninanw,'
World Bank mimoo.



- 7 -
in the future as the economy adjusts to NAFTA. The two key issues are: (a) absorbing NAFTA-induced
migration flows of largely uneducated workers from rural towards urban areas; and (b) facilitating the re-
allocation of labor between sectors and regions likely to result from the process of further trade
liberalization resulting from NAFTA. Lowering the costs of job search, improving the job matching
process and retraining labor for the skills that will now be required, are thus key to facilitating the necessary
employment adjustment with minimum social costs and enabling Mexico to take advantage of the anticipated
medium-term growth in employment prospects which NAFTA is expected to generate. These issues were
taken into account in designing the relevant project component through actions aimed at: (i) improving the
coverage and efficiency of the employment services; and (ii) providing training and education opportunities
for displaced workers (paras. 3.23-3.41).
3.    The Absorption Capacity of the Labor Market
2.15. The labor market has shown limited absorption capacity. Although non-agricultural employment
increased at a rate of 1.2% per year during the 1980-90 period, it has not been enough to fully absorb the
flow of new entrants and migrants from rural areas. Migration to the U.S. has provided an increasingly
important escape valve. The average annual flow of legal immigrants into the U.S. in the 1980s increased
by 11 % relative to the previous decade (see Table 2.3 below). The annual flow of undocumented
immigrants is estimated to have increased by 23 % during the same period.
Table 23: Average Annual Immigration Flows to the U.S.
Immigrants Admitted               Undocumented
Decade       Mexican      % of    Temporary    Estimated    Apprehended
Born       Total     Workers        Net
1965-70          45,393      12.3        3,706       25,000         208,578
1971-80          64,029      14.2        2,143      110,000         832,498
1981-86          66,936      11.4        5,363      135,000       1,260,855
1986-87          83,675      13.4       10,502          _         1,099,165
Source: Vernez and Ronfeldt (1991).1I'
2.16. The problem of absorbing rural labor flows into productive urban employment is likely to become
more acute with adjustment to the NAFTA. The further liberalization of the economy, and especially of
agriculture, combined with ongoing profound structural changes such as the reform of the ejido system, are
likely to result in a large flow of migrants from rural to urban areas. These rural migrants may be poorly
equipped to find jobs in the urban sector. About 20% of the rural population have no formal education at
all, and a further 30% have not completed primary schooling. A program of basic education for adults is
required to provide these workers with the most elementary skills necesary for occupational and
geographical mobility. Moreover, raising the educational level of these workers would complement efforts
to increase labor productivity and contribute to the emergence of new earnings opporunities resulting from
the growth process.
II/ See Vernez and Ronfdeldt (1991), 'The Cumnt Sitaion in Mexican Enmigrafion,m Raod Report, R-4099-PP.



- 8 -
4.    MoEitorin and Policy-malng Capadty
2.17. The monitoring £ J policy-making capacity of labor market agencies and institutions has been
constrained by data limitations and by lack of analysis of labor market issues. Mexico has developed
various information sources and survey instruments that provide labor market information. These sources
include a population cesus, an industrial census, a household-based labor force survey, a household-based
income and expenditures survey, several enterprise-based surveys, and administrative records from social
security registers and from collective bargaining contracts filed through the Secretariat of Labor and Social
Welfare (STPS). Despite this wealth of surveys, however, the information obtained presents a number of
limitations.1 A key problem is that information is dispersed, generated by a number of different
institutions and for different purposes. As a result, data provided by the various sources are often
inconsistent, reflecting different definitions of the same concept, and/or limited or unrepresentative samples.
In addition, surveys are repeatedly overhauled and concepts/definitions changed, creating discontinuities in
the historical data. Another crucial weakness is the limited coverage of most surveys and data sources. For
example, the continuous household labor force survey which provides all key labor market monitoring
statistics (unemployment rate, labor force participation, etc.) is limited to the 16 main urban areas.
Similarly, the main enterprise surveys (the monthly and annual manufacturing surveys) do not cover
MSMEs, which account for the bulk of employment. Other deficiencies of the existing data sources
include: (a) lack of timely data dissemination, there is often a long lag between data collection and
dissemination; (b) limited publication, there is a gap between available information and published
information; and (c) restricted access to the data, not all data are systematically made available to research
and/or academic institutions, who could provide useful insights as to the functioning of the labor market,
nor are they always available to public agencies responsible for labor market programs and policies. These
deficiencies are addressed in the design of the information, policy and institutional strengthening component
of the proposed project (paras. 3.42-3.63).
C.    THE ROLE OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR IN PRODUCTIVITY ENHIANCENMENT AND
LABOR MARETS
2.18.  In order to compete on international markets, foster a more rapid rate of economic growth, and thus
raise the living standards of its people, Mexico needs to increase the productivity of its firms and workers.
Yet, the potential for productivity growth in many sectors of the economy, especially those with a high
concentration of MSMEs (which still represent 71 % of non-farm employment), remains constrained by lack
of investment in the human capital of workers, and by the limited ability of firms to adopt and develop new
technologies. As discussed in paras. 2.3-2.7, the roots of these problems can be traced back to: (a)
disincentives for firms to invest in training arising from the risk of losing the worker, and thus not
recovering the full proceeds of the investment; and (b) the existence of economies of scale in training,
market imperfections in information on training and other services, and the lack of a group (governmental
or private) to organize such training for MSMEs, until the Multiple Support Service Program to MSMEs
(CIMOs) was created in 1987. During periods of rapid ecowmic change, such as those engendered by
NAFTA, labor mobility is essential if Mexico is to take full advantage of the opportunities created. Labor
mobility can be facilitated by retraining programs where workers acquire enhanced or additional skills to
take up new employment and an efficient job placement and matching service which is central to a modern
labor market. Within the context of Mexico's commitment to private sector led growth, in three areas -
IV Tew ooeduionsu ae bhd on a mud, carried out a pat of proje preparalio whichb .ysaeacally reviewed al exidkg
labor maret surveys. See M. Pedro (Anex 9).



productivity enhancement throug training and assistance to MSMEs, labor market adjustment through
training to displaced and unemployed workers, and strengthening labor market policy formulation - there is
a need for a dose partnrship between the Government and the private sector. Taking each of these areas
in turn the role of the Government is as follows.
2.19. Productivity Enhancement. MSMEs tend to under-invest in training from a social point of view due
to a number of important factors. Firstly, workers are mobile, and cannot be bonded to the firm. The
enterprise may not capture the full flow of benefits from its investment - thus there is a disincentive to
invest in training. Secondly, MSMEs are involved in the day to day management of their enterprises and
neither have the skills nor the time to organize training for their employees. Thirdly, there are high
overhead costs in organizing training courses and significant economies of scale: the smaller the number of
trainees the higher the unit cost per trainee. Frequently, smaller MSMEs see one another as competitors
and do not combine forces unless an external facilitator assists. Finally, smaller MSMEs operating at a
lower level of organization and technology are often not even aware of the technological options available to
them nor their training needs. External technical assistance is required. Government is in a position to
equate the rate of return of the enterprise with the social rate of return by providing a subsidy equal to the
externality involved. Through CIMO and its Regional Productivity Support Units (UPCs) the Govenment
is able to broker and facilitate training courses, help to organize MSMEs, disseminate information and
provide technical assistance. Such support must be highly relevant to the needs of the MSMEs, thus strong
involvement of the private sector is essential. The Govenment's role is essentially that of a broker and
facilitator, fostering the growing independence and development of MSMEs and focusing technical support
and the limited training subsidies where it is needed most, in general the smaller MSMEs. MSMEs
currently pay for 56% of the training costs. This percentage will increase gradually to 85% over the project
period.
2.20. By reducing the costs associated with investing in training, and reducing uncertainty and therefore
the costs of adoption and development of new technologies, the Government can raise the return to these
investments and thereby induce their undertaking. Thus the Government role can be reduced over time as
MSMEs grow, become more organized and aware of the returns to such investments in training, and
underke more training directly themseves, with the Government maintaining a technical assistance role.
2.21. Labor Market Adjutment. Increasing the productivity of workers also implies facilitating the
reallocation of labor to its most efficient uses. In an economy undergoing profound structural changes, as is
the case for Mexico, the reallocation of resources between contracting and expanding sectors will entail
significant social costs. In particular, individuals who lose their jobs not only suffer from unemployment
and the accompanying loss in income, but also lose the returns to the specific human capital accumulated in
previous jobs. The costs of adjustment are likely to be largest for low-skill individuals, as demand for labor
shifts towards workers with higher-skill. In order to find new jobs, displaced workers may need to acquire
new skills or upgrade their old ones. This requires an investment in training. Although this investment
may be privately profitable, individuals may be unable to make thee investments for several reasons: (a)
the transaction costs of organizing training can be prohibitively high for an individual; (b) individuals are
unlikely to have adequate information on the skills demanded by the labor market; and (c) unemployed
individuals are likely to have limited access to capital markets, and thus may not be able to finance these
investments. On the other hand, both transaction and information costs of organizing training are much
lower for Govenment, as it can take advantage of economies of scale by organizing course for groups of
workers. This suggests that thern is a role for the public sector in organizing courses that upgrade the skills
of displaced workers, and assisting low income workers financially through providing a small stipend for the
duration of training, thereby facilitating the reallocation of labor. While in theory the cost of the training



- 10-
and the stipend could be recovered from the trainees through a loan scheme, in practice the administrative
and transaction costs would be very high as the amounts are small and it is difficult to keep track of the
trainees after training to ensure that repayments are made.
2.22. The Government's training role is complementary to that of disseminating information on job
availability and characteristics, to ease job search and facilitate the job matching process and thus reduce
these costs for both employees and employers.
2.23.  A public training program for displaced workers can also respond to equity considerations. In the
absence of public intervention in this area, only those individuals with enough resources to finance
investments in training would be able to take advantage of retraining opportunities. In these circumstances,
the burden of adjustment to an increasingly open economy would fall disproportionately on the poorer
segments of the working population, who are also those most likely to be hit by unemployment. By
implementing a public retraining program aimed at low-skill displaced workers, the Government can
facilitate job mobility for disadvantaged workers, and provide them with greater opportunities to increase
their lifetime earnings. Such a program would promote greater social mobility and a better distribution of
the gains from economic reform, and thus contribute to poverty alleviation.
2.24. Policy Formulation and Labor Market Information Systems. Finally, the public sector has an
important role to play in generating and disseminating information on the labor market, and in stimulating
research in this area. Benefits derived from these activities are not likely to be fully accounted for by
private institutions; as a result, the market may fail to produce the optimal amount of information and
research. The Government needs to be equipped to analyze labor market issues, including rigidities and
barriers, so as to formulate and implement policies leading to a more efficient and effective labor market.
D.  STATUS OF EXISTING LABOR MARXET PROGRAMS
1.    Support to Enterpise Tning
2.25. To date, Mexico's efforts to encourage enterprise training have been limited. Other than legislating
mandatory training for workers (with little enforcement of the law), the Government has provided few
incentives to promote employer interest in training or to reduce existing constraints to such training. In
contrast, other countries (such as Colombia, France, Germany, Japan, Korea and Singapore) have
implemented training policies, ranging from levy-grant schemes to encourage enterprise training to
subsidized technical assistance and industrial extension sevices.
2.26. The only significant program existing to date to support in-service training and skill upgrading in
small and medium sized firms is the in-service training program (CIMO) which was introduced, on a pilot
basis, under the Manpower Training project (Loan 2876-ME). The program established 29 small regional
in-service training support units linked to selected employer associations in priority economic sectors and
regions. Over a period of five years, these units worked directly with 18,486 small and medium sized
enterprises, and provided direct support for the organization and delivery of intensive, short-term training
for about 68,900 employees in those enterprises. The program also promoted in-service training through
dissemination of information on the labor market, productivity issues and training opportunities to 22,474
additional enterprises employing about 800,000 workers. The role of the regional support units was strictly
one of broker/facilitator, promoting interest in worker training and facilitating information and access to the
relevant instructors or services, rather than directly providing the services to enterprises themselves. A
large majority of these services (87%) were provided by private centers and/or instructors. A key feature of



- 11 -
the CIMO program is that it is co-financed with the private sector. Although there has not been a
systematic evaluation of the programUl, numerous case studies have been documented, showing reductions
in waste, productivity improvements, employment and profitability increases. Moreover, despite its still-
limited coverage, the program has enjoyed rapidly growing support from small and medium-sized firms, as
evidenced by the growth of their contribution to the financing of the program from an average of 45% in
1988 to 60% in 1991 (see details in Annex 3.3). Enterprises' willingness to participate in and contribute to
the financing of CIMO activities is evidence of the program's relevance and positive impact.
2.27. Few efforts have been undertaken to promote managerial and technological improvements. A
limited number of public institutions, the most significant being the National Science and Technology
Council (CONACYT), are providing technical and/or financial assistance to enterprises to encourage the
introduction of new technologies. These institutions have been constrained by lack of staff and financial
resources, as well as by limited sectoral or geographical coverage. They also have mostly attended the
requests of large firms. However, under the Science and Technology Project (Ln. 3475-ME), CONACYT
and the Bank are cooperating to improve the quality of technology services delivered to industry, and to
strengthen the role of the private sector in the provision of standardization and quality-assurance services.
As part of the development of a system for MSME support, the Government has also undertaken initiatives
to: (i) streamline administrative procedures so as to facilitate the creation and growth of small enterprises;
and (ii) provide financing opportunities to them. The most significant recent development is the increasing
role played by the National Financing Company (NAFIN) since 1988, in providing credit to MSMEs. In
1991, it attended requests from about 50,000 enterprises, four times as much as in 1990. This increasing
trend in provision of credit to MSMEs continued in 1992. However, a consultant studyl5O revealed that
despite these efforts, MSME support in Mexico is hampered by: (a) insufficient numbers of suitably trained
staff; (b) scarcity of informational materials; (c) lack of operative coordination between the different
agencies implementing support; and (d) excessive specialization of technical support. The study also found
that significant progress has been achieved in the areas of training and credit, but emphasizes that coverage
is still very limited (see Annex 3.2).
2.     Employment Programs
2.28. Since 1983, the Government has supported a number of programs aimed at facilitating labor
mobility and labor market adjustment. These programs are run primarily through the National Employment
Service (SNE) and its network of State Employment Services (SEEs), set up in coordination with the State
Governments. Services offered by the SEEs include registration of job seekers and vacancies, career
counseling, referral, and placement in jobs or training (a detailed description of the organization and
1/ Most of die enterprises which benefitted from the CIMO program did not have a* wll-dveloped accounting sydem. A
igorous evalunion would requirc, as a first tep, dut a syseatic dat colectio systm be ret up at die time die intervention is
planned. Such a sydtm was not set up under tie pat project, but would be estabished under dIo presnt project (see par. 3.55
and Annex 5.4) to measure e impact of CIMO interventions on the performance ad productvity of entaris, ase die
efficacy and overall cost-effectivene of the progam and its differnt maost nmdlies, and to provide feedback for program
_ovmeaonL
14J Rot EValuaci6n de los Mecorsmos de AovoO a la Micro. Peaudla v Mediana Emoresa en Mecxc by A. Maz (see Annex
9).



- 12 -
structure of the SNE is presented in Annex 4).*1  Programs are funded mainly under the federal budget,
supplemented with contributions from the state budgets (the latter comprise mainly staff salaries for about
one-half of total SNE personnel, and physical facilities). Although the SNE system has been in operation
for nearly 10 years, its capacity to effectively intermediate in the labor market is stil limited. The weakest
part of the program is job placement. The main issues in this regard are: (a) limited coverage of job
seekers and job opporunities; and (b) rudimentary and inefficient placement procedures. The SNE is also
plagued by a number of organizational problems, namely: (a) high SEE staff turnover; and (b) weak
monitoring and evaluation of SEE performance. Two studies conducted by external consultants (see Annex
9) analyzed the functioning of the SEEs and documented these issues. Their conclusions are summarized
below. These issues will be addressed under the Labor Market Adjustment Component of the proposed
project (paras. 3.24-3.32).
2.29.  Limited Coverage of Job Seekers and Vacncie. SEE coverage of local labor market job openings
and job seekers is low. Assessing the actual coverage of the existing SEE information is difficult because
data collected on job seekers and vacancies is limited to stock amounts, no information is collected on
flows. However, the stock numbers suggest that over the 1988-91 period SEEs have captured on average
230,500 job seekers and 228,500 vacancies per year. Given net annual non-agricultural employment growth
for this period of 1% (215,123 net jobs created per year) and an employment turnover rate of 17%,W
vacancies captured each year appear to cover roughly 6% of annual job openings. Similarly, given an
annual labor force growth rate of 1.3% for the 1988-91 period and employment turnover of 17%, job
seekers captured each year represent approximately 5.5% of the total. This coverage is substantially lower
than that observed in most industrialized countries, where the share of vacancies captured by public
employment services varies between 13% (Canada) and 33% (IJK). However, in most of those countries,
employment agencies also administer cash benefit programs for the unemployed, which may pardy account
for their larger coverage.i171 The main reasons for the limited coverage of SEEs in Mexico are: (a) capture
of vacancies is strictly passive, i.e. few SEEs use systematic phone calls and visits to enterprises to gather
vacancy information, but rely instead on the enterprises calling in vacancies; and (b) there is little
coordination and exchange of information with enterprises and other placement agencies operating in the
local market.
2.30. Rudimentarv and Inefficient Placement Procedures. Job placement procedures need to be upgraded
and modernized. Information on job seekers and vacancies is not recorded on a homogenous and systematic
basis-vacancies, for example, are registered exclusively by occupation; no information is recorded on skldls
demanded, wage offered etc. Matching between job seekers and job openings is not automated.
Information is filed solely by chronological order, preventing easy linkae between offers and demands on
the basis of the relevant variables. No mechanisms exist for avoiding double-counting of vacancies. Access
to labor market information on neighboring states is nonexistent or limited at best, as a result, SEEs
effectively function as if they were dealing with segmented markets. Follow-up of placements is limited to
II/ Under dke Mexican Coaton,    plabemet semm may bo providod by public a  pa agencies  but n  he deliverd
fro of chag to the job ser. However, swerprie mkn to hire woersr   privat  aomeat ancies nkay be crged
for the ervic. The leilioo re ang do oerati of pnvate apecies is ceuily heing reviewed (wee Governme's dft
Sector Poicy Semnet in Anex 1).
IV This rate of enaoymeat turove is de pI  of individuala in dh  bor fore who areobsd unoq'yd (dedniton
nicludes idle woker) at lest once durig a on yer piod. It is eiumtd based on the quarty Urban Lahor Forc Survey
(ENEU) for dIe 1990-91 period. Given dhat it does    include those indivia who chnp jobs without experiencing
une.$doylnet qpell, it is clearly an underestmate of Ue turnover.
12/ See David Prewell (1992), Devloping Effedivo Epymet Services," World BSank iml dome_t.



- 13 -
a three-day effort after a referral. No systematic effort is made to collect reliable and complete placement
data.
2.31. Hifh SNE Staff Turnover. High turnover rates (15% of SNE staff rotate every year) limit program
effectiveness and continuity. Because of the high rates of turnover, valuable experience, contacts and skills
acquired on-the-job are lost every year and a significant amount of resources must be devoted to the training
of new staff. Turnover seems to vary with the quality of the facilities and the overall work environment. A
main problem is the lack of work incentives. No incentive scheme comprising additional training
opportunities, bonus pay or faster promotion exists to reward outstanding performance. As a result, top
performers with good employment opportunities elsewhere are likely to leave. Differences in pay and
benefits offered to state and federal staff tend to compound employment turnover. Unlike state employees,
federal staff do not enjoy social security coverage. This generates an important disparity in working
conditions between state and federal personnel, which leads to higher turnover among the latter. Finally,
working facilities are often inadequate: many employment offices are cramped, lack partitioned areas to
conduct confidential counseling interviews, and have insufficient phone lines, office equipment, and even
furniture.
2.32. Weak Monitoring and Evaluation of SEE Performance. Monitoring and evaluation of SEEs needs to
be strengthened although federal authorities exercise strong control over SEE operations (including
monitoring state compliance with negotiated agreements, authorizing the hiring of new staff, and approving
training courses prior to implementation) and although they require periodic performance reports from each
SEE. The main problem is that no criteria have been defined for evaluating SEE efficiency. Performance
reports are limited to providing information on numbers of job seekers and vacancies captured, number of
placement referrals (not actual placements) made, and number of trainee placed in courses. No systematic
attempt is made to evaluate each SEE's coverage of local labor market conditions, its efficiency in placing
workers or the success of its training programs. No incentive scheme exists to reward strong-performing
SEEs or motivate weaker performers to improve.
2.33. Retraining Programs for Unemployed and Displaced Workers. The Labor Retraining Program for
unemployed and displaced workers (Programa de Becas de Capacitaddn paw Trabajadores, or
PROBECAT) was established by the Mexican Govermnent in 1984 as a response to the growing economic
crisis. In 1987, the program received Bank support under the Manpower Training project, and its scope
and coverage significantly expanded. Since then, PROBECAT has provided short-term vocational training
to over 250,000 unemployed people. To participate in the PROBECAT program unemployed men and
women register at their local employment office where they are evaluated to determine their eligibility for
the program; based on available information of local enterprises needs for skilled workers, and taking into
account the schooling, experience, and interests of the unemployed, SEE staff refer them to a public or
private institution that offers relevant courses, previously evaluated by SEE staff. Under this program,
unemployed workers receive training of several months duration (on average, three months), during which
they receive a stipend equal to the minimum wage. Upon completion of the courses, the local state
employment office helps training completers find a job (see Annex 3.1 for a more detailed description).
2.34. A recent impact evaluation of PROBECAT found that: (a) trainees with prior work experience
have, on average, a shorter duration of job search than do comparable members of the control group; (b)
program participation appears to improve the likelihood of employment at three and six months after
training for males, and at three, six and twelve months after training for females with prior work
experience; (c) trauining increases the monthly earnings of male trainees, but this effect varies systematically
by level of schooling attinment; the largest effects (increases in monhly earnings of 28% to 37% following



- 14 -
training) are found for those with 6 to 12 years of schooling; (d) program participation appears to have no
effect on the earnings of females; (e) male trainees are more likely to find employment in large firms than
comparable controls; and (f) the monetary benefits of training outweigh the costs of the PROBECAT
program for certain groups of trainees (see Annex 3.1). These results have been taken into account in the
design of the new retraining program under the proposed project. Selection criteria for program
participation have been modified to target those for whom the program was found to be most cost-effective
(para. 3.35). In addition, follow-up evaluations of the program, incorporated in project design, would
attempt to identify the causes of differences in program impact between men and women to redesign the
program to improve the effectiveness of training provided to women.
3.    Labor Market Infonration and Analysis
2.35.  Some of the key deficiencies in the labor market information system were addressed under the
Manpower Training project, which included support for a number of surveys and studies. However, most
of the data generated from these surveys have not yet been thoroughly exploited and analyzed due to lack of
sufficiently qualified human resources. There is a clear need to promote further use of these data, and to
strengthen STPS's analytical capacity. This will increase STPS's understanding of the structure and
evolution of the labor market, and contribute to more effective policy design. This need will be addressed
under the Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening component of the proposed project (paras.
3.43-3.50).
E.  GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.36.  The Education Modernization Program 1989-94, the Industrial Modernization and Ew=  Progrm
1990-94, the Modernization and Deveopment Program for Micro. Small and Medium Sized Industries
1991-94, and the National Training and Productivity Program 1990-1994, all of which expand on the
National Development Plan 1989-1994, reflect the strong commitment of the Government to build up
Mexico's human capital in the context of a consistent free-market oriented strategy, and to provide a clear
institutional framework for human resource development. While the Secretariat of Education (SEP) has
been made responsible for the implementation of education policies and programs, and the Secretariat of
Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI) for the implementation of policies related to technological
innovation and export promotion, STPS (by law, the leading institution in matters related to employment,
labor market regulations, in-service training, productivity, and working conditions) is the executing agency
for the National Training and Productivity Program.
2.37. The main focus of the NationalI  g ang     iLix1rogr  is to: (a) support private sector-
led growth by increasing the skills of the labor force, promoting productivity improvements and facilitating
labor mobility; and (b) broaden the basis for growth through a wider distribution of income-generating
opportunities within the population. These goals are made explicit in the Government's policy statement on
labor market and training policies, contained in draft form in Annex 1, which sets forth the general
direction, key objectives and implementation actions of the Government's labor market modernization
strategy.
2.38. As outlined in the draft sector policy statement presented in Annex 1, the Government has placed
high priority on education and training of the work force, and on the adoption of new technologies as a
means of increasing productivity and facilitating the modernization of the economy. The Government has
also emphasized the need to modify traditional forms of organization and management, including promotion
and wage schemes, to reward individual performance and foster productivity growth. The importance



- 1s -
attached to these issues has, furthermore, increased in light of the expected NAFrA agreement. This has
been reflected in the National Arreement for Increased Ouality and Productivity, signed in May 1992 with
representatives of business and labor, which aims to modernize traditional forms of production and
organization. Both the Nao         and Productiv Program and the National Agreement for
Increased Oualiy and Productivity stress the need for an active participation of the private sector in
education, training and productivity-enhancement activities. The draft sector policy statement sets forth
specific targets for private-sector involvement in these areas.
2.39. To accomplish its mandate, STPS would undertake or develop further the following specific actions:
(a) promote and finance programs to improve the knowledge and skills of working aged disadvantaged
population groups to allow them to participate in productive activities; (b) support training and retraining
programs for displaced workers to facilitate their adaptation to new technologies and different production
methods; (c) provide support and technical assistance to MSMEs to promote their productivity and growth;
(d) promote productivity, quality and efficiency through information and promotion campaigns; and (e)
improve information collection, analysis and distribution mechanisms to facilitate and support Government
policy-mak.ing. The proposed project would support and help implement these strategies. At negotiations,
the Government presented a signed statement on sector policies, satisfactory to the Bank, including: (i) the
participation of the private sector and public institutions in the area of job placement and productivity
enhancement activities and the corresponding regulatory framework; and (ii) the objectives and implications
of the recently signed National Agreement for Increased Quality and Productivity. To ensure integration of
project interventions with Government strategies, during negotiations. aIgreem=e was reached on a final
sector olcv statement w%uch includes a broad uew of the Government's labor market strategies for the
project implementation period and beyond and their linkages with the DroDosed Droject (para. 7.2(a)).
F.    BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.40. The lessons from experience derive from three Bank operations in the training sector in
Mexico-the First and Second Technical Training projects (CONALEP, I and U), which were completed in
1984 and 1991, respectively, and the Manpower Training project, which is about to be completed and for
which a draft PCR was prepared in June 1992W-as well as from training sector experience Bank-wide.
1.    Taning Sector Experience in Mexico
2.41. The CONALEP I and H projects focused on the creation and strengthening, respectively, of a new
and large training system (the National System for Technical and Vocational Education, or CONALEP121)
through two loans (2042-ME in 1981 and 2559-ME in 1985) totaling US$171.0 million. A third loan for
CONALEP (3358-ME) was approved by the Board in June 1991 to consolidate earlier achievements,
modernize and improve the quality and flexibility of program offerings, and improve its articulation with the
productive, education, and public sectors. Disbursements have begun to accelerate under this Loan. In
October 1987, the Manpower Training project was approved by the Bank. It sought to improve
employment services and provide training to unemployed and displaced workers, promote
II/ lhe final PCR is expecd to be coqdetd by you end, 1992.
12/ CONALEP provide pro-work expeieace vocabonml taig targed to 16 to 18 yewiold.. Most coures arn fom 2 to 3
yea. CONALEP taining facilitie wil be usd in some cue by STPS for tain provided under diis project (p.  3.35 to
337). No equpmem will be provided for de CONALEP fcilies ifom di Io n.



- 16 -
industrial/technical training with the involvement of private enterprises, upgrade existing training institutions
through provision of complementary equipment, and strengthen STPS.
2.42.  Lans leri. All three projects accomplished their objectvs, met or surpassed their key
targets, and did not suffer serious implementation problems. Implementation of the Manpower Training
project was consistently ahead of forecasts. The main implementation lessons of these projects are:
(a)    A labor retraining program, such as the one supported under the Manpower Training
project, can be effective in improving the employment and earnings opportunities of
trainees, provided it is properly targeted. The selection criteria for trainees are important
determinants of the impact and cost-effectiveness of the program (para. 3.35 and Annex
3.1);
(b)    To allow continous assessment of the impact and efficiency of training efforts, programs
should have a carefully designed, built-in monitoring and evaluation mechanism, which
should include a control or comparison group. The data collecton strategy, methodology
for the evaluation and periodic review mechanisms should be agreed upon at negotiations
(para. 3.57);
(c)    Support programs should reach out to the enterprises, and involve industrial and business
associations in program activities, to ensure that they respond in quality, output and
relevance to labor market needs. As experience with the Manpower Training project shows,
gradually increasing cost-sharing arrangements can contribute to this (see Annex 3.3);
(d)    Moreover, since experience with the CIMO pilot suggests that trning alone is seldom the
only problem that needs to be addressed, technical support to enterprises should cover a
range of services complementary to training (management, process consulting, industrial
engineering services) (para. 3.9);
(e)    A highly competent and commited project management team that is deeply involved from
the beginning of sector work and project definition is of critical importance (para. 5.3); and
(f)   In order to ensure continuity in the implementation process, short seminars should be
conducted by the Bank whenever there is a change in project management/coordination staff
to familiarize such new staff with Bank norms and procedures. Start-up seminars can also
be very useful when the instution in charge of the project has no previous experience with
Bank procedures.
2.    Lawns Learned from Traini  Setor Ixpe m  Dank-Wide
2.43.  Iuinin  Lessons learned from training sector experience Bank-wide include the following.'
(a)    Economic analysis of labor market issues should be improved for use in the design of
training policies and investments (para. 5.1);
2Q For a 00 oqileb .vahaa&m of am* "Mar _zpmeno Dak-w   we, Wa WVBd Dank,   TEdM           d
||AiU    (Wrd Bak Poliy Pap_), 1991.



- 17 -
(b)    Programs should encourage private sector training, which is likely to be the most effective
and efficient way to develop the skills of the work force (pam. 3.22, 3.35-3.36, and 3.41);
(c)   Interventions in the area of public training should seek to improve the responsiveness and
efficiency of such programs. Experience shows that training is effective only if it responds
to labor market needs. The linkage must be direct: employers must be involved in the
definition of training needs and the design of courses; also, instiutional links with industry
are required to enhance the opportunities for staff industrial exposure and research (para.
3.41); and
(d)    Finally, experience indicates that the introduction of cost-recovery schemes is feasible for in-
service training (para. 3.15).
2.44.  Mam        Administration. Project experience Bank-wide confirms that continuity of staff within
project units is crucial to successful project implementation (para. 5.3). Such continuity allows the
development of close cooperation between the Government and the Bank, which helps provide the flexibility
required to effect necessary project changes. Recent experience also suggests that systems for monitoring
and evaluating the intermal and external effectiveness of training can fail because little attendon is paid to
these areas during implementation. Also, staffing constraints in the education/training sector agencies may
have to be addressed in order to avoid relying too heavily on costly technical assistance, which may be used
even for simple administrative and accounting duties.
2.45.  Finaing and Countpart Funig. Successful implementing agencies are those with considerable
financial and administrative independence. In many cases, revenue shortfals or lack of
availability of counterpart funds due to adverse economic conditions cause delays in implementation (paras.
4.5 and 5.12).
3.    Incorportion of Lsons into Project Design
2.46. During project design, the Government and the Bank considered these lessons. First, the proposed
project supports secor policies and strategies that seek to further strengthen the links between enterprise
and public institutions (paru. 3.3-3.12). Formal institutional arrangements are also in place to encourage
private sector training and involve industrial business associations in program activities. Second, successful
cost-sharing arrangements between the Government and enterprises for in-service training of workers will
continue and services to enterprises will be expanded (paras. 3.9 and 3.22). Third, the results of the
evaluation of the labor retraining program supported under the Manpower Training project have been taken
into account to improve the design of the new retraining program. Selection criteria for program
participation have been modified to target those for whom the program was found to be most cost-effective
(para. 3.35). Fourth, the proposed project includes monitoring mechanisms and formal evaluations of the
retraining program and of the MSME support program, based on comparisons with control groups (paras.
3.54-3.56). Fifth, an experienced team that successfully managed the Manpower Training project designed
the project, taking into account their experiences with the first operation and the results of its mid-term
review. Sixth, institutional strengthening activities supported by the project aim to: (a) improve policy-
making capacity by supporting improvements to the existing labor market information sytem, and carrying
out of studies and surveys (par.. 3.42-3.50); (b) provide greater technical support, training and information
to the project implementation units to improve their capacity as service providers; and (c) improve intra and
inter-institutional coordination (paras. 3.13-3.18). Finally, adequacy of countepart funding would be



- 18 -
ensured through the analysis of the work plan and budget allocation for the following year during annual
project implementation reviews (para. 5.12).
G.    RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMIET
2.47. The project's objectives are fully consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy to: (a)
support the shift in the Government's focus toward long-run development issues; and (b) provide support to
private sector-led growth through the provision of social infrastructure and a well-structured set of
incentives. By supporting productivity enhancement activities in the labor market, the project would
contribute to human resource development, which is key for long-term growth and poverty alleviation. By
improving the efficiency in the use of public resources and by inducing an increased involvement of the
private sector in training activities, the project would support the Government's efforts to rationalize the role
of the public sector and promote private-sector led growth. By targeting specific actions on more vulnerable
socio-economic groups, the project would also promote social mobility and a more equal distribution of the
gains from economic reform. The project is justified on economic efficiency and equity grounds (paras.
2.18-2.24).
2.48. The Government has been showing increasing interest to involve the Bank more closely in policy
and program development in the human resource sector. Following the good experience of the CONALEP
I, CONALEP 11 and Manpower Training projects (Loans 2042-ME in 1981, 2559-ME in 1985, and 2876-
ME in 1987, respectively), the Bank has been expanding its support to human capital development in
Mexico, through the Basic Health, CONALEP HI, Primary Education, and Science and Technology projects
(Loans 3272-ME in 1991, 3358-ME in 1991, 3407-ME in 1992, and 3475-ME in 1992 respectively), and
through the preparation of an Initial Education Project recently approved by the Board (September 1992).
The Bank has undertaken studies which contributed to the design of the proposed project and these are listed
in para. 5.1 and Annex 9. It is also currendy carrying out a labor market and training study which will
help identify future lending operations in the sector. The Bank is the only aid agency in Mexico involved in
large-scale human resource development programs, and would be able to transfer to Mexico lessons learned
from Bank experience in other countries. The Bank has thus a comparative advantage to provide the
necessary support for the proposed project,
2.49.        In the future, Bank strategy in the fields of education, training and productivity enhancement
will focus on three main areas:
(a)       al and basic education - over the last 4 years, federal budget allocations to education
have increased from 2.9% to 4.2% of GDP, despite this there are still unacceptable
deficiencies in the system in relation to acces, drop-out rates, quality and resource
utilization efficiency. The Bank will support interventions to deal with these issues
particularly in pre-school and primary education. The recently approved Initial Education
Project, the Initial Education Strategy (ESW FY93), the proposed Basic Education 11 (FY94)
and National Teacher Training (FY94) Projects are all key elements in the Bank strategy to
strengthen the foundation of human resource development in Mexico;
(b)   Trinn and roductiv                - in support of the private sector led growth strategy
which Mexico has fully adopted, the skills and frequently the basic education of the labor
force must be enhanced to tWe advantage of the economic opportunities which develop.
The careful implementation of this project, and the current Training and Labor Market
Study, will define any further areas of action requiring Bank intervention. Future projects



- 19 -
in this area are likely to emphasize highly targeted training programs with maximum private
sector participation and the further strengthening of labor market policy formulation but
would not provide any further financing of the costs of trainee stipends; and
(c)    Nutritio - adequate nutrition is both a key determinant of early child development and has a
direct effect on the productivity of the labor force. Nutritional status and the improved
targeting and cost-effectiveness of nutritional programs are expected to be addressed by the
Bank through the Food Security and Nutrition Study (FY93) and the proposed Nutrition
Project (FY96).
HI THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1.  The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Mexico in promoting private
sector-led growth and in easing the costs of labor mobility and labor market adjustment by: (i) increasing
the productivity and competitiveness of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; (ii) reducing costs
incurred by employees and employers of hiring and job search, and providing education and training
opportunities for displaced and unemployed workers, with special attention to women; and (iii) improving
the availability, timeliness and dissemination of labor market information and, more broadly, the capacity to
monitor labor market changes and to design, evaluate and implement relevant policies and programs in the
sector.
B.    PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.2.   The project would consist of three major components:
(a)    Productivity Enhancement (28 % of total costs including contingencies) would support
activities aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of MSMEs by: (i)
improving the coverage of the pilot in-service training program (CIMO) initiated under the
Manpower Training Project and expanding the scope of support services provided to
MSMEs; (ii) strengthening coordination between CIMO and other institutions rendering
support to MSMEs; and (iii) promoting the gradual privatization of CIMO by increasing the
involvement of enterprise associations in its financing and operation, and the gradual
transformation of UPCs;
(b)    Labr Mk  Adjustment (61 % of total costs including contingencis) would improve the
coverage and efficiency of State Employment Services (SEEs) and provide education and
training opportunities for displaced workers, through: Ci) strengthening the operation and
management of the SEEs, and improving the quality and availability of information on local
and regional labor markets; (ii) providing improved retraining for approximately 300,000
displaced and unemployed workers meeting stringent selecdon criteria; and (iii) introducing,
on a pilot basis, an education and training program for under-qualified rural migrants who
are ineligible for the regular retraining program; and
(c)   Information Policy and Institudonal Strengthening (11% of total costs including
contingencies) would improve the availability, timeliness and dissemination of labor market



- 20 -
information, and strengthen institutional capacity to design, operate and evaluate labor
market policies and programs, including: (i) supporting the developme  of an information
system and the underking of in-depth surveys to provide a buis for periodic and
systematic labor market data generation and analysis; (ii) promoting an extensive program of
studies and research on labor market issues, programs and policies; (iii) fostering regular
publication and dissemination of labor market information; (iv) instituting a systematic
framework for program evaluation; and (v) strengthening STPS's management and technical
capacity through human resource development and modernization of data management
system.
C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    Pructity    anLm oaM  (US$99.1 million including contingencies)
3.3.  Under the Productivity Enhancement Component, the project would support activities aimed at
increasing the productivity and competitiveness of MSMEs, while inducing increased involvement of private
sector enterprise associations in the financing and operation of program activities. The Government's role
would thus evolve to be essentially a provider of technical assistance, with the private sector paying for the
costs of training. These activities would consist in the consolidation and extension of the CIMO program
initiated under the Manpower Training project, which was designed to promote in-service training among
small and medium sized enterprise in selected sectors and regions (see description of the CIMO pilot in
para. 2.26 and Annex 3.2).
3.4. The expanded CIMO program would maintain the key features of the pilot, namely: (a) the support
units delivering CIMO services (UPCs) would play strictly a broker/facilitator role, promoting intert in
worker training and in improved product quality, organization and management, and disseminating
information and facilitating access to the relevant instructors or services, rather than providing the services
themselves; the majority of services are provided by private instructors or centers; (b) assistance would
remain demand-driven; and (c) services would continue to be co-financed with the private sector. The
consolidation and extension of the CIMO program would be achieved through:
(a)    Improvig and Expanding Coveae of Ihe CIMO Propm
3.5.  The project would provide the required resources to extend the geographical and sectoral coverage
of the program and reach new target groups. It is expected that by the end of the project, the total number
of enterprise training and support events organized would reach 100,000 (twice those organized under the
previous project). Approximately 35,000 different enterprises, employing about 1 million workers would be
reached (about two-thirds of enterprises are expected to participate in more than one training/support
activity). The 35,000 enterprise represent about 30% of enterprise employing 10 to 250 workers.
3.6.  Geoaphical Coveroe. Mmhe program currntdy has 29 established regional units (UPCs) with about
three staff per unit. The project would support the establishment of five new UPCs in 1993 and 1994 and
promote improved coverage of enterprises from each of the exist  units by increasing the number of their
staff up to a maxiunm of five or six per unit. The now locations have been chosen either as a response to
an existing demand from enterprise ociatons and/or to reach unateded regions in which strong
economic changes are expected to occur. With 34 opeatng units established within or linked to enterprise
associations, the overal national territory would be practically covered while maintainin a light
administrative structure. Tbe number of promoters would gradually increase by about 20% per year, from



- 21 -
100 during the first year to a maximum of 170 by the end of project life. All promoters would be hired as
fixed-term temporary staff with time-limited contracts and their fees would be financed under the project on
a declining basis (paras. 4.5 and 4.14).
3.7.   Sectora Crg. The program has so far focused its attention on manufacturing and the tourism
sector. Under the new project, it would not only extend its coverage within manufacturing but would also
cover the service sector and agro-industry, both of which have a large fraction of micro and small firms that
are expected to benefit substantially from the program (see Annex 2, Table 4). As the work plan of each
UPC would respond to the demand by private sector enterprises, the relative emphasis put on each of these
sectors would reflect the specific characteristics of the region.
3.8.  ITUmaGroups. While most CIMO interventions in the past were geared towards small- and
medium-sized enterprises (from 15 to 250 workers per firm), the program would now also seek to attend the
needs of micro enterprises (under 15 workers), which represent about 35% of total employment in Mexico.
Promotion and information campaigns would be targeted especially towards smaller enterprises and those
located in urban marginal areas and in the agro-industrial and craft sectors.
3.9. Broadening the Scope of Services. Although originally designed as a program promoting mainly in-
service trainig, the experience with the CIMO pilot (para. 2.26) indicates that the impact of CIMO
interventions can be enhanced by complementing direct training support with actions aimed at improving
product quality, enterprise organization and management. To this end, CIMO would gradually enlarge the
scope of the services it facilitates under the proposed project. In-service training programs would be
expanded to cover the overal occupational structure of the firm, particlarly supervisors (US$49.0 million),
and to allow for training of in-plant instructors (US$4.7 million). CIMO would also facilitate access to
other types of consulting services (US$10.3 million), such as: (a) management or process-consulting
services; (b) industrial engineering; (c) business management, including marketing, accounting, personnel
management, etc.; and (d) industrial, technology and labor market information services. The variety of
services to be provided would respond to local enterprise needs and gradually increase as each individual
UPC gains experience in its respDective region. In all cases, the UPC would play a double role: that of
promoting productivity improvements and that of reducing the costs of organization and access to the
required services. The project would finance the costs of these services on the basis of cost-sharing
arrangements with private sector enterprises (para. 3.22). Over the project's life, CIMO would organize
about 56,000 enterprise training events and about 44,000 interventions involving other types of services (see
Annex 8). After the first two years of project implementation, a first evaluation of the impact of the
different types of CIMO interventions would be made (para. 3.55 and Annex 5.4). Results would be
discussed during the mid-term review and satisfactory adjustments in program design would be made
accordingly (paras. 5.13 and 5.14).
3.10. Ouality Control Laboratories for MSMEs. The project would promote high quality standards
among MSMEs and would thus support, with co-financing from enterprise and enterprise associations, the
creation of five quality control laboratories. Thes laboratories would provide standardization, certification
and quality control services for a fee. Direct cost-recovery of at least 30% of investment costs in the first
two years would be ensured through contracts with the quality control labs for provision of standardization,
certification and quality control services at preferential rates. Project support to the quality control labs
would be fully consistent with the Government's objective of promoting the establishment of a tier of
secondary certification and control labs to help increase quality standards and improve productivity in
industry, as outlined under the ongoing Science and Technology Project (Ln. 3475-ME). CIMO's function
would be to educate MSMEs on the role and advantages of standards and quality assurance and to provide



-22 -
training and incentives to encourae private sector participation in the development and management of
quality control systems. The project would provide minimum financial support to cover part of the design
(US$85,000) and equipment cost (up to a maximum amount of US$100,000 per lab). Selection criteria for
the quality control laboratories were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal. It was agreed that STPS
would invite, through a published nouent, submission of proposals for participation in this program.
Proposals would be selected, by STPS, based on the following criteria: (a) centers benefitting from support
must be located within an area of operation of CIMO, and must be willing to tailor their standardization,
certification and quality assurance services to the specific needs of MSMEs; (b) centers must have suitable
infrastructure and equipment to accommodate the complementary equipment, or must be able to obtain said
infrastructure and equipment through co-financing from private enterprises; (c) centers must present a
satisfactory feasibility study; and (d) centers must agree to offer services to MSMEs at discounted prices, to
allow for cost-recovery of at leut 30% of the investment costs over an initial two-year period. This
percentage is based on experience acquired for start-up activities under the CIMO pilot program. The type
of contract for cost-recovery would be identical to that described in para. 3.15. Dirfn nege&9m.
agreement was reach  on the sekcton criteria for qualty control laboratories and that Droosals for
creation of agalitv control laboratories. Incuifn, feasdbfty stdes. would be sent to the Bank for review
and ogrovrl (para. 7.2(b)).
3.11.  Industrial Imaio System for MSMEs. To strengthen CIMO's productivity-oriented support
services, the project would promote the development of an industrial information system for MSMEs. The
objective would be to provide MSMEs with improved access to local, national and intrnational information
on production technologies, market conditions, human resource management policies, legal and regulatory
requirements, and accounting procedures. The system has been designed on the basis of a pilot project,
conducted by STPS between June 1991 and February 1992, which identified the most pressing information
requirements for MSMEs, the databases available to address these requirements, and the most cost-effective
ways to access those databases.WIV As conceived, the system would operate in a decentralized fashion and
would comprise three levels: (a) the UPC level, which would operate a basic database containing relevant
sectoral and regional information and inormation from all periodic national publications (official bulletins,
business newsletters, busine periodicals, etc.); (b) the central level, which would manage key national
database and information sources, accessible to all UPCs through a communications network; and (c) the
external level, to be used for specialized information requests. MSMEs would have access to these
databases and information sources through the UPC promoters. Coordination of these activities would be
carried out by the Directorate for Employment Studies and Policies (DEPE). The project would finance the
costs of CIMO's specialized information requests and subscriptions to specific databases and publications.
Other costs related to access to national information sources, required equipment and training are included
in the institutional strengthening subcomponent (para. 3.62).
3.12. Economies of Scale. Efforts to reduce transaction costs linked to the organization of training and
management courses and to the access to relevant information would be accompanied, whenever possible,
by a search for economies of sale. Trainin and information costs, in particular, can be substantially
reduced by providing access to a group of firms rather to a single one. TIis is likely to be most significant
/ Por a deabd dosca of th pio projt ref  o 1WC   CIMO: StLua de ltbrmadn  hubs&W, May 1992. Experiec
under tde pilt howed duat the nuber of  p    tt usd indlaa  onorm   mwea wer equal to that of the mil
ad medium ized ewiprim coobseed. lnfmatbon requoet wor maily for maphes of machiney, equon_  d raw
matenrls, folwed by aimi an iarboml nu*et inforsio for induaial and apwoinua productb and by requests for
productim technol4i.



- 23 -
for micro (1-15 workers) or small enterprises (16-100 workers) or in the case of newly-created firms. The
program would thus aim at providing technical assistance to groups of firms whenever possible. Experience
under the pilot program showed this to be effective and less costly, in particular when attending the needs of
various firms within the same sector, or when working with a group of common suppliers to a large firm.
(b)    Sgthing Coordination between CIMO and Other Institutions
3.13. The proposed project would strengthen coordination between CIMO and: (a) the training sector; (b)
the set of institutions providing support to MSMEs; (c) the SEEs and workers' associations.
3.14. Training Sector. To improve the availability and quality of training services provided to the firms,
and to ensure that they respond to enterprise needs, the project would finance the training or retraining of
independent instructors or of instructors working in training institutions (US$890,000) that have been active
in modernizing their course offerings (according to a survey conducted with the existing UPCs, 87% of
training centers that have been working with CIMO are private). STPS would invite, through a published
announcement, training centers and/or instructors to present proposals for participation in this program.
The selection, by STPS, of the centers and/or instructors would be based on the following criteria: (a)
centers and/or instructors must have participated or be willing to participate in the organization of training
courses within the CIMO program; (b) they must be actively modernizing their course offerings in response
to local enterprise needs; (c) they must have past experience with, or be in the process of developing,
course offerings in critically demanded specialties (in particular, in the areas of quality control, production
engineering, enterprise organization and management, and accounting/financial control); (d) they must be
wiiling to tailor these offerings to the specific needs of MSMEs; and (e) training centers must have suitable
infrastructure and equipment for course delivery. A modest amount of financial support for complementary
equipment (between US$10,000 and US$100,000) would be provided to 5 training institutions when training
for a critically needed specialty is not available in the area. The equipment would be procured by STPS
using Bank procurement guidelines (para. 4.8) and would be made available to the centers through a
contract whereby STPS retains ownership and the training institution is responsible for the costs of operating
and maintaining the equipment. Trainers would receive specialized courses organized by STPS and
developed and delivered through contracts with private institutions.
3.15. Direct cost-recovery from private training centers that would receive complementary equipment
support would be ensured through contracts for training services to be provided at preferential rates that
allow recovery of at least 30% of equipment investment costs during the initial two-year period. Firms
whose workers receive training would pay for services provided by these centers at reduced rates which
would be reflected in a corresponding reduction of the Government's contribution to the trainees' firms.
For individual independent instructors who receive specialized training, contracts would provide for a cost-
sharing scheme whereby participants would contribute at least 30% of the training cost and STPS would
cover the remainder. During appraisal, the selection criteria for the instructors and training centers were
discussed and agreed upon between the Government and the Bank. Draft agreements for the financing
schemes were also reviewed and agreed upon. The selection of the cost-recovery percentage is based on the
experience of STPS with start-up activities under the CIMO pilot program. At negotiations, the
Government presented satisfactory finalized standard legal contracts for the cost-recovery scheme. During
negotiaions. agreement was reached on the selection criteria for centers and/or lndcendeM instructors who
would =ncfitfrom ClMAO  IwpIr (para. 7.2(c)).
3.16. Other Institutions Providing Support to MSMEs. To avoid duplication of actions and achieve
greater complementarity, agreements delineating their respective roles would be formalized between STPS



- 24 -
and the main other institutions rendeing support to MSMEs, namely NAFIN and SECOFI.W A draft
agreement outlining the aeas of competence of each of the three institutions, and establishing mecanisms
for exchange of information, training materials and services has been prepared and was reviewed during
appraisa (see the Goveme's Draft Sector Policy Statement in Annex 1 for a description of the key
features of the draft agreement). In particular, the industrial information system to be developed by CIMO
(para. 3.11) would be made available to both NAFIN and SECOFI. DIAen  acfleda&io. theGovcrnmcnt
Draonded assuraces that a final agreement between STPS. NAFIN and SECOFI. satisfactort to the Bank.
would be formanzed and submitted to the Bank bv March 31. 1993 (para. 7.1(a)).
3.17. State Emnloyment Services (SEEs) and Workers' Organizations. Closer links would be established
with the SEEs and with workers' organizations, both of which provide placement services to workers. The
objective would be to improve the information flows regarding job seekers, vacanies and demand for
specific skills in the region and thus facilitate the job matching process. Closer coordination with the SEEs
would also allow better preparation of retraining programs for workers displaced by massive layoffs in areas
undergoing strong economic restructuring.
3.18. Workers' organizations have traditionally run training programs for their affiliates. Some of them,
including the Mexican Confederation of Labor (CTM), have an organized educational strucure which
includes regional units. Most training programs, however, have exclusively dealt with labor law and labor
relations. In order to promote workers' participation in the enhancement of enterprise productivity, the
project would support training services for instructors belonging to workers' associations (US$210,000).
Training of instructors would be co-financed with the workers' organizations. STPS would reimburse 70%
of costs and worker's organizations the remaining 30%. During negotiations, the Government presented
satisfactory finalized standard legal contracts for the cost-sharing scheme. At negotiations, the Government
presented satisfactory finalized standard legal contracts for the cost-sharing scheme. Digiag ncgoaions,
agreement vws reached on the selecton criteria for instructors belonugn. to workers' orpanizatons w*o
Yuid bUfkIK Jfrom2aM O sCLJ rt (para. 7.2(d)).
(c)    Psmoting the Gdaml Prlvaftzati  of CIMO
3.19. The CIMO program would be operated through the regional network of UPCs coordinated and
supported by a central unit located within the Directorate for Occupational Analysis (DAO). The project
would strengthen the capacity of the UPC network to increase the coverage and efficiency of the program
by financing: (a) a maximum of 170 UPC promoters (US$19.1 million) (para. 3.6) and 25 fixed-term
temporary saff (US$3.2 million) at the central level; (b) the provision of relevant documentation to UPC
staff (small libraries); (c) the development of an industrial information system (para. 3.11); (d) computer
equipment (para. 3.61); (e) continuous upgrading of skills of UPC staff in all areas in which technical
ssistnce is to be provided to enterprises (pan. 3.59); (f) specialized technical asstance to support
program coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities (paras. 3.55 and 3.57); and (g) promotion
campaigns to disminate informaion on the program and promote multiplicatve effects.
3.20.  Cost-Sharing and Privatization Stratr. CIMO program operation by STPS is not meant to be
permanent. The objectve is to induce gradually increased involvement of enterprise ssociatons in the
WU  Moxico's ry_m for MSME mypt, a lb. rob of lbo mi insdbaioe was r.viod as put of project prepaaon ,   is
do_mdated i dw rept Embod. &e 5 Mecad we de Amo a la Mkre. Peaufh v Mediana Emwa on Madco by A. Man
(oa Awas 3.2 for a _may of e, eport mad Asez 9).



-25 -
financing and operation of the program. The Government would ultinately maintain only an information
and technical assistance role. The privatization process would be achieved through the gradual
transformation of UPCs into Multiple Service Support Centers (USIs) established within the enterprise
associations and partially supported by them. It is expected that the costs of at least one-fifth of existing
UPC staff would be privately financed by the end of project life (at least one promoter per UPC would be
paid by the enterprise associations). This process would be closely linked to the consolidation and extension
process. UPCs which have already gained regional experience and extended both their coverage and their
services would be privatized more quickly and to a larger extent.
3.21. To promote private sector involvement, the project would provide various types of incentives to
enterprise associations: (a) technical assistance regarding program operation, financing and legal
arrangements; (b) provision of didactic materials; and (c) training of associations' key personnel in areas of
management and organization.
3.22. The privatization process would be accompanied by an overall increasing cost-sharing scheme. For
activities already initiated under the Manpower Training Project (in-service training of workers and
supervisors), the percentage of costs financed by enterprises would increase, on average, from 65% to 85%
by the end of project life. For newly introduced activities, two types of cost-sharing arrangements would be
used: (a) for the training of instructors in private and public centers, the percentage of costs financed by
enterprises would be a flat 30% because these are one-time only events for each participant; and (b) for
technical assistance services to enterprises, the percentage would increase from 30% to 60% by the end of
the project, to ensure that enterprises that receive various types of services time absorb a greater share of
the cost of these services over time. Overall, the percentage of costs financed by enterprises would increase
from 56% in 1993, to 64% in 1995, to 66% in 1996, to finally reach 77% by the end of project life.
Enterprises' total financial contribution to program operation costs is estimated to grow from about US$5.0
million during the first year of the project to US$12.0 million by 1997. This estimate of total private sector
contribution does not include the value of time of program participants (see Annex 3.2). The Government's
financial contribution for CIMO services would remain flat at about US$4.0 million throughout the life of
the project. The contribution of the private sector would be ensured through the payment mechanism, under
which the private party pays for 100% of the costs of services obtained, and then gets reimbursed by STPS
for the agreed percentage. At appraisal, agreements were reached on cost sharing and cost-recovery
arrangements with the private sector and on specific, time-bound targets for private sector participation to be
monitored during project implementation (see Annexes 1 and 8). These targets are included in the
monitoring indicators, and were confirmed at negotiations (para. 5.10).
2.    Labor Market Adjustnent Component (US$218.1 million including contingencies)
3.23. Under the Labor Market Adjustment component the project would provide the resources required to
improve the coverage and efficiency of employment services and provide education and training
opportunities for displaced ankd unemployed workers.
(a)    S gthening Operation and Manage t of Employment Services
(US$41.4 million including contingencies)
3.24. The project would improve the functioning of the SNE and its network of SEEs by: (i)
strengthening the operation and management of the SNE; and (ii) increasing the quality and coverage of
information on local and regional labor markets. Overall responsibility for this component would rest with



- 26 -
the Directorate for Employment Services (DSNE). At the local level, operational responsibility would be
held by the SEEs, with support from the DSNE.
3.25. Strengthenig Q ational Procedures. The project would upgrade procedures for job placement
and training referral and improve the recording and use of information on job seekers and vacancies.
Current operational procedures would be revised and reformulated, with technical assistance support
(US$1.0 million), and new operational manuals developed (US$80,000) and distributed to staff
(US$570,000) (currently numbering 851) in all 32 SEEs and their operating units during the first year of the
project (see Annex 4 for a breakdown of units and staff per SEE). Information recorded by the SEEs would
be systematized and computerized to allow easy linkage between job offers and job demands on a number of
variables (e.g., occupation, qualifications demanded/offered, sector). The project would also augment and
strengthen contacts with local firms through the formation of local committees with employer representation
and through intensified personal visits to firms. By supporting closer coordination with employers, the
project would improve coverage of job opportunities, assure a better match between training courses offered
and skills required, improve follow-up of employment referrals, and ultimately contribute to better job
placement with fixed-term staff support (US$7.8 million). To expand the geographical coverage of the
employment service network, the project would provide 24 'mobile" employment service units to the main
SEEs. The design and operation of the mobile units would be based on the experience of the six pilot units
supported under the Manpower Training project. Support for these units was conditioned on the preparation
of an evaluation of the experience, expected to be completed and sent to the Bank by the end of 1993.
Dunng negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government woudd submit to the Bantk the revsed
operational manuals for SEEs by June 30. 1993 (para. 7.2(e)). As a condition for disbursement for the 24
mobilen mlovment unwts. the Government would present an evaluation. satisfactorv to the Bank. of the
eenerince with the six pilot units suported under the Manpower Training g roect Ms. 2876-ME) (para.
7.3(a)).
3.26. To ensure effective implementation of these actions and to eliminate constraints to the operation of
SEEs arising from inadequate working facilities, the project would support the provision of essential
computing and office equipment, the installation of additional telephone lines (three per SEE), the repair
and/or redesign of existing office space, and the modernization of existing information technology (para.
3.61). The goal would be to: (a) allow each SEE to computerize its basic program operations; (b) provide
the basis for the systematic recording of information on job seekers, vacancies and training needs at the
local level; and (c) provide each SEE with fast and easy access to local, regional and national information
relevant to its operations. Implementation of new operational procedures will also require substantial
training and upgrading of personnel at the state and central levels. This would be provided under the
project as part of a comprehensive training program for STPS staff (para. 3.59).
3.27. Monitoring and Assessment of SEE Performance. The capacity for continuous system-wide
monitoring is essential in assuring the quality and effectiveness of services delivered through the
employment centers. The project would improve DSNE's existing monitoring capacity, with the help of
consultants and fixed-term staff (US$2.2 million), by establishing a set of homogenous and systematic
efficiency criteria to measure SEE performance. The new criteria would emphasize placements as the
appropriate variable to measure SEE efficiency. The efficiency criteria were discussed and agreed upon
during appraisal (see Annex 5.3). The most important among them have been incorporated into the set of
key monitoring targets for project implementation (para. 5.10 and Annex 8).
3.28. Provision of Work Incentives to Starf. The project would introduce a performance-based bonus
compensation system for employees. The objective is to reduce the high turnover of staff in the SEE



- 27 -
network. The performance-based compensation scheme would aim to link individual compensation to
performance of that individual's operating unit and/or SEE. SEE and/or unit performance would be
assessed based on the set of efficiency indicators referred to in para. 3.27 and found in Annex 8. The
evaluation of SEE performance would be carried out by an Evaluation Committee comprising the Director
General of Employment, the Director and three Sub-Directors of the SNE, and three SEE Directors chosen
at random. The top 30% of the operating units would receive a compensation bonus equal to one to two
months of salaries, to be distributed among their employees. Costs generated by the staff incentive system,
which are part of recurrent costs, would be financed on a declining basis (para. 4.5). During negoiations.
the Government provided assurances that the precse guidelines for the ogeration of the work incentve
scheme for SEE staff. including an ixplementation schedule, would be submitted to the Bank for review bv
March 31. 1993. and that the Evaluation Committee would be established bv June 30. 1993 (para. 7. 1(b)).
As a condition of disbursement for the work incentive 2rogram. the Government would present the guidelines
for the operation of the work incentive scheme for SEE staff. including an implementation schedule.
satisfacto=a to the Bank (para. 7.3(b)).
3.29. The incentive program would be managed by STPS, in coordination with the State Governments.
The coordination structure already exists in the form of annual agreements between STPS and the State
Governments, which determine the financial contributions of each, as well as the norms and legal
framework for the year's activities.P1 Under the agreements for the current year, which were reviewed
during appraisal and found satisfactory, the contribution of the State Governments covers the salaries of
approximately one-half of the employees of the SEEs, the costs of office space and equipment, and all
associated maintenance and operating costs. In future annual agreements, STPS would also negotiate the
gradual incorporation of all SNE federal staff into the social security regime, with charge to the State
Governments. Targets for the incorporation of SNE federal staff into the social security regime were
discussed and agreed upon during appraisal, and would be used as monitoring indicators for project
implementation (see Annex 8). Duning negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the annual
agreements with the State Governments for subseauent years would be revewed with the Bank during the
annual reviews. so as to verify the adeauaca of State financial contributions for the operation of the SEEs
(para. 7.1(c)).
3.30. Reorganization of Central Level Unit. The project would strengthen the management capacity of the
SNE by financing technical assistance to support the coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities of
the central level unit. Functions and responsibilities of the central units and the need for technical assistance
were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal.
3.31. Improving the Information on Local and Regional Labor Markets. The project would improve the
quality and coverage of information on local labor markets through: (a) coordination and exchange of
information with private placement agencies, business representatives and CIMO; (b) elaboration of periodic
regional studies on occupational needs; (c) improved data collection and processing at the operating unit
level, leading to better use of information recorded by the SEEs themselves; (d) improved communication
between SEEs and the central level, allowing for increased access to regional and national labor market
information collected at the central level (paras. 3.43-3.46); and (e) a more decentralized use of the
information, allowing for greater dissemination to local employers, training institutions, and other placement
@I/ 'Mee agreement are igned annually as Anexos de Ejecudon whhin the Convew de Desarrolo Socal. Under this agreement
signed by the Federal and States Governmeots, funds are allocted to the stat for investment, and fial resources for recurrent
expendiu are alloced through revenuesharing arangements.



- 28 -
agencies. The main objectives are to expand the coverage of existing vacancies and improve the
information on what occupations/skills are demanded in local labor market.
3.32. By promoting better information on local and regional labor market conditions, these actions would
directly contribute to improved operation of the SEEs, better job placement, improved training referral and
course design, and more accurate career counseling. Parallel activities aimed at strengthening operational
procedures and organization (paras. 3.24-3.30) would, in turn, foster better use of available information.
Responsibility for coordinating the regional information system and for updating and developing the central
database would rest with the DEPE. Operational responsibility for collecting and managing local and
regional information would rest with the SNE.
(b)   Training and Education Programs for Unemployed and Displaced Workers
(US$176.7 million including contingencies)
3.33. The project would support an extensive training program aimed at upgrading the skills of
unemployed and displaced workers. The main objective is to provide training for those workers whose
skills fail to match those in demand and who otherwise would be unable to qualify for existing vacancies.
Based on the evaluation results of the PROBECAT program supported under the Manpower Training project
(see Annex 3.1), the project would continue to support existing STPS retraining programs for displaced
workers who meet improved selection criteria (paras. 3.35-3.36 and Annex S. 1). The project would also
introduce, on a pilot basis, an alternative basic education and training program for under-qualified rural
migrants, who are not eligible for regular retraining. Over the five years of the project, approximately
300,000 persons would be trained. Overall management responsibility for retraining programs would rest
with the DSNE. At the local level, operational responsibility would be held by the SEEs.
3.34. The project would support two alternative training delivery systems: (a) classroom training,
implemented in accordance with existing procedures for STPS retraining under contracts with over 400
public and private training institutions; and (b) in-plant training, implemented jointly with enterprises which
contact the SEEs to hire new workers and manifest interest in participating. In the case of classroom
training, the project would provide financing for trainee stipends and training costs (training materials and
instructor salaries). In the case of in-plant training, the project would provide financing only for trainee
stipends. All other training costs would be covered by the enterprise. Classroom trainees would receive a
small supplement to the regular stipend, calculated on the basis of a survey of transport costs in 10 urban
areas. In-plant trainees would receive similar assistance directly from the training enterprise. Although
enterprises would not be obliged to hire all training completers, in the past the majority of in-plant trainees
have been hired. Approximately 80% of all trainees would receive classroom training, while the remaining
20% would be trained through in-plant programs.
3.35. Retraining for Displaced Workers (classroom training). The project would support continuation of
the retraining program along the PROBECAT model for those types of workers for whom it has proved
effective, namely unemployed workers with prior work experience and who have either completed primary
or some secondary education. The selection criteria would be based on these two main characteristics. The
age bracket for eligible trainees would be in the 18-55 range, although the condition of prior work
experience would restrict significantly the number of eligible young workers aged 18 to 24. In addition,
trainees have to be registered as a job applicant at a local SEE and have either complete primary or some
secondary education. All trainees without prior work experience would be eligible only for the in-plant
training modality (para. 3.36). These selection criteria for program participation (detailed in Annex 5.1)
have been designed, based on the results from the evaluation of the PROBECAT program, to target those



- 29 -
individuals for whom training has proven most cost-effective, namely, trainees with prior work experience
(para. 2.34). Particular attention will be paid to addressing the issue as to why the benefits of training for
women is apparently low. Possible explanations include inappropriate courses for females and other
rigidities and barriers in the labor market. This issue will be fully investigated in the evaluation (para.
3.37) and an action plan, including measures to remove rigidities and barriers to female employment,
developed to deal with it (Annexes 1 and 5.4). Participants in the program would receive short-term
training in tailor-made courses in specialties required by enterprises in the respective region, varying in
length from one to six months, with an average of three months, during which time they would receive a
stipend equal to the regional minimum wage. The rationale for the stipends is to cover part of the
opportunity cost of attending the course (which is an investment cost) to allow individuals with minimum
resources and greater family responsibilities to participate in the program. This rationale is identical to that
used to justify financial assistance for any educational investment. The level of the stipend is very low
relative to the average wage of Mexican workers; as much as 93 % of Mexican workers report earning more
than the minimum wage. According to the National Employment, Salary, Technology and Training Survey
conducted in December, 1991, the average salary for production workers in the lowest salary scale was
35% higher than the PROBECAT stipend, including the transport supplement and the average salary of
administrative workers in the lowest salary scale was 52% higher. Thus, the stipend is only intended to
cover part of the opportunity cost of program participation and does not constitute an incentive for workers
to reject viable job opportunities in favor of attending training. Cost-recovery for this program would have
very high transaction costs that would undermine the economic benefits of the program (para. 2.21).
3.36. Training for Young Inexperienced Workers (in-plant training). This program would be targeted to
young workers with no work experience, for whom classroom training along the PROBECAT model has not
proven to be effective (see Annex 3.1). The program would have the dual-purpose of providing skills to the
most disadvantaged youth and unemployed and giving them the opportunity to obtain the necessary work
experience to become active labor force participants. Course content is determined by the enterprise needs
for specific skills and includes a combination of classroom and on-the-job training. Course duration varies
between two and six months with the average duration being three months. Under this program, enterprises
cover the costs of instructors and materials, provide the necessary physical training facilities, and usually
cover the trainees' transportation and meal costs while in training. The Government provides a stipend
equal to one regional minimum wage to each participant. Cost-recovery options would not be feasible due
to the high transaction costs involved (para. 3.35 and Annex 5.2).
3.37. The project would support the development of a systematic framework for data collection and
evaluation (paras. 3.54-3.57 and Annex 5.3). Several evaluations of all of PROBECAT's training
modalities would be conducted over the project life to measure the impact of alternative training programs
and delivery systems on the employment and earnings of program participants and to assess the cost
effectiveness of the programs. The first evaluation would take place in the second and third quarters of
1994, because sufficient time is required to observe trainee cohorts, and its results would be made available
to the Bank by March 31, 1995. Bank financial support beyond this date would be conditional upon the
satisfactory results of this evaluation and agreement on a plan of corrective reform, if called for. Durng
negadions. aireement was reached on the terms of referce and timinp of the PROBECAT evaluations
for: ri) retraining for displaced workmrs propram: and (it) training for vow inexperienced workers
program (para. 7.2(f)). An even gf suspnso ef disbursements for the retraining poramfor the
unemploYed bvond US$25.0 million would arise if: fl) the Govemrnent fails to Dresent to the Bank. within
60 days of the timw  such amount is reached. a satisifactoiv evaluation that: (a) measures the imact 01
alternativA training programs and delivery sVstems on the Cmployment and ca=ninis of the trainees: fib)
identifies possibek imrovements in propram targeting: and (c) assesses the costdectiveness of the propram



- 30 -
and its differcet modalities: and (TO the Government fails to present a plan of action. sasisfactory tO the
Bank. for improving such retraining nroggram in a manner that takes into account the results of the
evaluation. The timetable for the comiein gf the evaluation and agreed action plan is bv March 31.
1995. Inter alia. the number of trainees would not exceed 55.000 per annum until such satisfactorv
evaluation has been coneiea (para. 7.4). This would be monitored in the annual reviews (para. 5.12).
3.38. Basic Education and Trainia. As discussed in para. 2.16, Mexico is undergoing important
structural changes; the reform of the traditional ejido and the NAFTA agreement are foremost among them.
Both are likely to result in a large flow of rural migrants to urban areas. To facilitate channelling some of
the expected flow of rural migrants into productive employment in urban areas, the project would support,
on a pilot basis, the introduction of a Basic Education and Training program for individuals with little or no
formal education who are not eligible for participation in the retraining program.
3.39. The design and implementation of this pilot program would be done jointly between STPS and SEP
through its National Institute for Adult Education (INEA). INEA would provide the format for the basic
education courses, training materials and equipment. It would also support STPS in the selection and
training of instructors, and in the monitoring and evaluation of the program. STPS would cover the costs of
program operation and be principally responsible for the selection of trainees, the design and organization of
the skills training component, and the monitoring and evaluation of the program. Participants would enroll
in courses lasting approximately six months, which would combine training modules in basic literacy with
additional skill/occupational training. While enrolled in the programn, trainees would receive a stipend equal
to the regional minimum wage for the same reasons as stated in para. 3.35. Selection criteria for the pilot
program participation were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal (see Annex 5.1).
3.40. Implementation of the program would be gradual, with focus in the first five months of the project
on organization and design of program contents and operational procedures. Following this, a pilot
program would be implemented in three urban areas during June-December, 1993. Evaluation would take
place in September of the following year; during this period the program would continue with its current
level of trainees and would not expand. Based on evaluation results, the pilot program could be expanded
into a regular training modality within the STPS Labor Retraining Program. As for the other training
modalities, the project would support the development of an extensive and systematic program evaluation
framework. During negotiations. the Government rovided assurances that: (i) theDrecise guidelinesfor
the operation of the pilot Basic Education and Training program. including contents of the pro gram courses
and detailed operational Drocedures. would be gresented to the Bank by May 31. 1993 for review and
aq=roval: rii) the results of the evaluation Qf the pilot in line with terms of referce accptabek to the Bank
would be submitted to the Bank for review no later than March 31. 1994 and that based on those results.
atreement would be reached on the continuation and Dossib&e redesign of the groram. fii) a satisfactory
agreement between STPS and INE1 for the cDansion of the Basic Education and Training Propram beyond
the gilot staee would be sitned by May 31. 1994. and riv) an evaluation of the eaded grogram would be
undertaken along the lines agred Wmon durin praisal and described in Annex 5.6 (para. 7.1(d)).
3.41. Training Institutions. To ensure the quality and relevance of the training offered under the program,
the project would support a number of actions aimed at modernizing and upgrading existing training
institutions. First, as discussed in paru. 3.25 and 3.31, the project would promote greater coordination
between the different agents involved in the local labor market-including employers, job seekers,
placement agencies and training institutions-and would seek to improve the availability and dissemination
of information on local labor marcet needs and conditions. This would help training institutions adapt their
offer to rapidly changing training requirements. Second, over the five years, the project would provide a



- 31 -
modest amount of complementary training equipment such as electronic boards, sets of wood and metal
working tools. This equipment would help improve the quality of the training provided to MSMEs and to
PROBECAT trainees. An average of US$23,000 per program for about 300 technical training programs
would be made available to private and public training institutions involved in providing retraining and in-
service courses. Eligibility for equipment support would be open to all public and private training
institutions who have participated in the Labor Retraining and CIMO programs in the past or desire to do so
in the future (with the exception of CONALEP participants, which benefit from support under Ln. 3358-
ME). Following a general announcement requesting proposals, beneficiary training institutions would be
selected on the basis of agreed criteria, which include presentation of institutional plans for strengthening the
offer of courses in critically demanded specialties, visits to evaluate the condition of existing equipment, and
availability of suitably qualified instructors. The equipment would be procured by STPS and would be
made available to the centers through a contract whereby STPS retains ownership and the training institution
is responsible for the costs of operating and maintaining the equipment. The impact and use of equipment
provided under the project would be monitored and evaluated annually by STPS. A portion of the
investment costs would be directly recovered from private training centers through contracts for training
services at preferential rates. Agreements for cost-recovery schemes would follow those outlined for CIMO
(para. 3.15).
3.    Information, Policy and Institutional StrengtheinLg Component
(US$38.7 million including contingencies)
3.42. Under the Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening component, the project would support
a set of activities aimed at improving the availability, timeliness and dissemination of labor market
information and at siengthening the institutional capacity to use this information to better design, operate,
monitor and evaluat, libor Siarket policies and programs.
(a) * Laber Market Information and Program Evaluation
' (US$A1.8 million including contingencies)
3.43.  Informationa vem . ,he project would support the development of an information system that
would allow for sys*matic analysis of the labor market and would help design, monitor and evaluate labor
market policies and programs. The project would finance technical assistance (US$800,000), survey design,
data collection and processing, and analysis. The information system would cover data on employment,
wages and non-wage benefits, education, training and technology, as well as data on collective agreements
and other aspects of labor market regulations. It would be made accessible to policy makers and other
agencies and institutions involved in labor market issues.
3.44. The developed information system would be based on: (a) the review, gathering and integration of
all available information from various sources (surveys, administrative registers on insured workers and
existing databases); (b) the promotion, through agreement with the main information generating institution,
the National Institute of Statistics (INEGI) of increased coverage and representativity of existing surveys,
improvements in questionnaires and data quality, greater use of and greater access to existing information;
(c) the regular and timely production of short-term statistics to allow for the monitoring, on a quarterly
basis, of changes in employment, labor costs and productivity; (d) the definition of a basic set of statistics to
reflect medium and long-term structural changes; and (e) an extensive program of specific surveys and
studies (paras. 3.47-3.50).



- 32 -
3.45. These tasks would be carried out by the staff of the General Coordination Unit for Labor Market
Policies, Studies and Statistics (CGPEET), with support from a technical committee, formed in June, 1992,
chaired by the General Coordinator of CGPEET and comprised of representatives from all technical areas of
STPS, including the General Directorate for Employment (DGE) (paras. 5.3-5.7). This committee, with the
assistance of working groups and external consultants, would also be responsible for setting priority needs
and coordinating the implementation activities to be carried out by the various technical areas. Durin
negotiations. the Government rovWied assurances that: (f) the set of short. medium and long-term statistics
to be used for labor market monitoring would be defined and submitted to the Bank for review no later than
ADril 30. 1993: and rii) once ddfied. these statistics would be updated and Dublished on a regular basis
beginnwng in June 1993 (paras. 3.53 and 7.1(e)).
3.46. The information system would also encompass the industrial information system and the regional
labor market information system, which directly support the operation of the CIMO program and the
functioning of the SEEs (paras. 3.11 and 3.31-3.32). Both the industrial and the regional labor market
information systems would be under the responsibDlity of DEPE in coordination with the DSNE and DAO.
3.47. Surveys. To allow for a deeper analysis of particular labor market issues, specific surveys would be
undertaken. The design of these surveys would be carried out by the CGPEET with the assistance of
external consultants (US$5.7 million). Data collection would be contracted out to INEGI and other research
centers. The most important surveys would be: (a) a national employment survey with a specific module
on training activities; (b) an enterprise survey with an attached worker questionnaire; (c) a retrospective
survey of individuals that would set the basis for creation of a longitudinal data set; (d) a migration survey;
and (e) a survey of micro-enterprises. These surveys, to be conducted every two years, in accordance with
a detailed implementation schedule (Annex 8, Schedule 1) to be agreed upon at negotiations, would expand
the coverage of existing INEGI surveys and would fill important information gaps (para. 2.17). Terms of
reference for these surveys were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal (see Annex 5.7). Dund
negotiations. agreement was reached on terms of rcference and Iementato schedule for the survevs and
on the definition of the content and purpose of additional specc survevs would be discussed during the
nnual rviews (para. 7.2(g)). During negotiations. the Government vrovaded assurances that. ri) all
survev questionnaires would be sent to the Bank for review: and di) basic survn results would be publgshed
and the nucro-data be made avilable to external research institutes, academic institutions and the Bank
within a year of data collection. so as to stimulate timch research on labor issues (para. 7. 1(f)).
3.48. Studies. The increased availability of raw data on the labor market would be accompanied by an
extensive study and research program. Two types of studies would be undertaken: (a) short "diagnosis"
studies which would be carried out on a regular basis and would consist of a simple description of the most
important characteristics of the labor market (active population, skills of the labor force, wage levels, etc.);
and (b) studies and research aimed at providing a deeper analysis of the functioning of the market,
identifying its determinants and predicting the impact of behavioral and institutional changes. These studies,
which would be carried out either by qualified STPS staff and/or fixed-term temporary staff (US$2.8
million), would largely be based on the analysis of existing and newly created labor market data,
systematically gathered or made accossible through the development of the information system and the
surveys program (paras. 3.43-3.47). Tbey would serve to improve STPS's understanding of changing labor
market conditions, provide direct feedback into policy decisions, and allow for continuous monitoring and
evaluation of programs supported under the project.
3.49. The list of the main studies to be financed under the project was discussed and agreed upon during
appraisal (Annex 8). Studies wo'lld be carried out in the following areas: (a) the analysis of the



- 33 -
determinants of employment, wages and productivity; Q,) the relationship between openness, technological
change and growth; (c) the structure and dynamics of labor demand and supply; (d) the informal sector; and
(e) impact of the regulatory framework on the functioning of the labor market. The study program would
also include a number of studies designed to directly support the other project components, such as the
evaluation of education and training programs for the unemployed (para. 3.56) and the evaluation of the
impact of the CIMO program (para. 3.55), as well as regional studies targeted towards specific areas or
sectors. Finally, the study program would include an in-depth mid-term review to assess project
performance and initial impact (para. 5.13). Results and conclusions of these studies would be discussed
with the Bank during the supervision missions and annual implementation reviews. For those closely linked
to the programs supported under the project (CIMO and retraining), the implementation of recommendations
satisfactory to the bank, would also be discussed and agreed upon during the annual reviews (para. 5.12).
Detailed terms of reference for first year studies, implementation schedules (see Annex 8) and consultant
selection processes for the studies to be carried out during the first year of the project were discussed and
agreed upon at appraisal (see Annex 5.8). In particular, it was agreed that the consultant selection process
would involve a general announcement in academic and research institutions requesting proposals in
accordance with the Terms of Reference for the studies. During ncgotiations, agreement ws reached on
the terms of rference. schedules and consultant selection processes for the first-year studies and that the
terms of referenac. reiew and implementation schedules for the studies to be carried out during each
subsequent Year would be discussed and aged Wonwith the Bank ex-ane during the annual
LniMOelntation reWews (para. 7.2(h)).
3.50. Responsibility for the design and management of most of the survey and study programs would also
rest with the CGPEET, with support from the technical committee and relevant technical units of STPS, and
with technical assistance and fixed-term staff support (US$5.7 million). The evaluation of the education and
training programs for the unemployed and of the CIMO program, as well as specific sector regional studies
would be carried out by DEPE.
3.51. Documentation Center and Publications Unit. The project would support the strengthening and
extension of the Information Center on Labor Issues (SIAL), created in 1983 under CGPEET and directly
managed by its General Directorate for Institutional Programs and Documentation (SPID). The proper
functioning of this center, which is both a library and a Publications Unit, has been impaired by information
gaps and lack of resources. This has led to a wide dispersion of data between different institutions and
great difficulties in timely access to them. Strengthening this center would thus have as main objectives the
consolidation and centralization of information flows and the provision of easy access to up-to-date labor
market information to all technical areas of the STPS as well as to other institutions involved in the sector.
3.52. The development of this center would be achieved through: (a) the constitution of catalogues and a
unified access system; (b) the rationalization and computerization of information-gathering procedures; (c)
the creation of a network system to gain access to existing databases in Mexico and abroad; (d) the
extension of the existing stock of documentation through subscriptions, acquisitions, and transfers/loans; and
(e) the production of various types of publications. These actions have been defined on the basis of a 1990
inventory of the existing stock of library volumes (around 100,000) and of a June 1992 diagnosis study
which reviewed the functioning of the editorial programs (see Annex 9).
3.53. Publications to be financed under the project would include various periodic statistical bulletins, a
journal published three times a year and occasional monographs. The statistical bulletins would aim at
ensuring the dissemination of the short-, medium- and long-term statistics generated through the information
system (paras. 3.43-3.45). The journal and monographs would serve to disseminate the results of studies



- 34 -
carried out by STPS and external researchers. The content of each issue would be decided by an editorial
board comprising the members of the technical committee and at least two outside experts in the labor field.
Services from external referees would be requested as needed. Publications would be distributed to the
different areas within the sector, to research centers and to university libraries, and would be available for
sale in specialized bookstores.
3.54. Program Evaluation. Continuous monitoring and evaluation of programs is essential to assure
effective and efficient use of public resources. The project would improve STPS's evaluation capacity by
instituting a systematic framework for data collection and evaluation of all programs supported under the
project. Responsibility for the evaluation would rest with the Directorate of Employment Studies and
Policies (DEPE), in coordination with the directorates responsible for program implementation.
3.55. CIMO Program. A first objective of the evaluation would be to monitor the implementation of
CIMO interventions on a continuous system-wide basis, so as to assure the quality, timeliness and
effectiveness of CIMO services. A second objective would be to measure the impact of CIMO interventions
on the performance and productivity of enterprises, and to assess the efficacy and overall cost-effectiveness
of the program and of its different support modalities. The evaluation would be based on periodic
operational reviews, detailed case studies and time-series data systematically collected from participating
enterprises.
3.56. Retraining and Basic Education and Training Programs. The main objectives of the evaluation
would be to assess the impact of program participation on employment and incomes. This would be
complemented with a cost-effectiveness analysis of the overall program and of each training modality
(including the Basic Education and Training program for under-qualified rural migrants). These evaluations
would be based on longitudinal data gathered on several trainee cohorts. Control groups would be drawn
for the corresponding periods from the quarterly National Urban Employment Survey (ENEU) by exploiting
the panel structure of that survey.
3.57. For all program evaluations (para. 3.37), the project would finance data collection and analysis and
technical assistance (US$1.7 million). Terms of reference for the evaluation systems and methodology,
including implementation schedules, were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal (see Annexes 5.3 to
5.5, and Annex 8). The first set of evaluation results for the retraining program would be made available to
the Bank by March 31, 1995 and would condition Bank's further financial support for the program (para.
3.37). The first set of evaluation results for the CIMO program would be ready by the project's mid-term
review and would be used to adjust program design, if necessary. Later evaluations results would be
discussed with the Bank during annual reviews to allow for further program improvements. Dunea
n=e=tiadons. areement was reached on the terms of reference and completon dates of the evaluations of
the CaMO and retraing grograms and that the Government would: riJ submit to the Bank the results of
these evaluations on the rcfied dates for review: ai) discuss their implications for program desgn. and
(fiiJ develop a satiswiactor action Dan. as ma be needed. to incorporate the reqred changes (para.
7.2(i)). At negotiations, the Government presented a signed general agreement with INEGI, satisfactory to
the Bank, that would guarantee STPS access to INEGI's labor market micro-data, which is essential for
program evaluation and labor market monitoring.



- 35 -
(b)   Institutional St
(US$16.9 million including contingencies)
3.58. This subcomponent would strengthen decision-making processes by improving management and
technical capacity at the central and local levels and modernizing equipment and working methods. It would
also strengthen STPS capacity to implement project activities by financing consultants (US$1.3 million),
fixed-term staff (US$2.8 million), and other expenditures related to project coordination and management.
Activities are grouped under three major areas: (a) human resource development; (b) modernization of the
gathering, processing, and transferring of data; and (c) project coordination and management.
3.59.  Human Resource Developmn. STPS' main strategies for human resource development consist of:
(a) training of selected staff as trainers of new staff and at the central and local levels; (b) continuous
development and updating of training materials for in-house training; and (c) involvement of local and
foreign universities and other institutions, in the development and delivery of specialized training for
managerial, technical and support staff and fixed-term temporary staff. Areas for knowledge and skill
improvement of staff are determined through STPS-wide needs analyses, which are revised and updated
annually. In line with STPS' long-term human resource development strategies, activities supported by the
project include: (a) technical assistance for needs analyses and course development; (b) in-service training
for staff involved in the administration and management of SEE and CIMO support programs; (c) training
for trainers; (d) long-term continuing education programs for upgrading skills at the central level, with
involvement of universities and other specialized institutions, in particular the Bureau of Labor Statistics;
and (e) short-term study tours and scholarships for STPS managerial and technical staff.
3.60. The proposed project would finance: (a) training of 851 staff of the SEEs and 170 internal of the
UPCs, including short-term study tours; technical training for about 155 managerial and technical STPS
staff; training in the use of software; general administration, accounting and statistics courses for about 300
STPS staff; and short-term scholarships for 28 STPS staff; (b) technical assistance for course development at
the central and local levels; (c) audiovisual equipment for selected SEEs and for the General Directorate of
Human Resources; and (d) reproduction or purchase of training materials. STPS has prepared a detailed
training program, including course objectives, duration, instructional techniques, and training providers for
the five years of project implementation. Each year, training plans for the following year of implementation
would be updated and reviewed during the annual reviews (para. 5.12). RmdagzgQda&nL agreement
wLs reached that the Government would submit during the annual reviews, soilsfactord updated training
Dlans. revised on the basis of the annual needs analsis. for the foUowing year of rogram ifmpementation
(para. 7.2()).
3.61. Modernization of the Gathering. Processing and Transferring of Data. To facilitate and modernize
data management at the central and local levels, to integrate information from various technical units of
STPS and to avoid duplication of efforts within the institution, the proposed project would support the
consolidation of the labor market information system (paras. 3.43-3.45). Actions would comprise: (a)
provision and installation of the required computer and communications hardware and software needed to
link the technical units of STPS (including SEEs, UPCs and USIs) and provide access to external
users/generators of labor market data; (b) development of norms and guidelines for the use, updating and
access to information databases; and (c) planning for equipment procurement, installation, maintenance and
software upgrading. The design of the information system was based on a detailed needs analysis of
computer and communications hardware and software. This design, together with detailed lists of
equipment and the implementation plan, were reviewed by an information technology expert and agreed
upon at appraisal (see Annex 5.9).



- 36 -
3.62. The proposed project would finance technical assistance to: (a) select the best alternative to
integrate information and establish communications links among prospective users at the central level; (b)
assist in the preparation of equipment lists and evaluation of bid proposals; (c) assist in system development;
and (d) provide tehnical support to users. It would also finance computer and communications hardware
and software for the central and local levels, subscriptions to externa databases, and maintenance of
equipment. Overall responsibility for the development of the information system, including database design,
determination of hardware/software requirements, and definition of procedures for data entry and database
queries, would rest with the General Directorate for Labor Statistics (SET), which would use its own
information experts supported by outside consultants.
3.63.     ect Coordination    nng      t. Experience under the Manpower Training project showed
that STPS staff, with assistance from consultants, managed and coordinated the project quite effectively.
However, experience also showed that administrative work generated by the project required greater
resources than anticipated, especially given the continuous decrease in permanent staff experienced by
STPS. Thus, the proposed project would support the creation of small administrative units, for the project's
duration, in the offices of the General Coordinator for Labor Market Policies, Studies and Statistics and of
the General Director of Employment that would provide project-related adminis&ative support to all STPS
units involved in project implementation activities. The proposed project would finance: (a) fee for fixed-
term temporary staff who would staff the units; (b) travel expenses of STPS staff responsible for supervision
of project activities; (c) basic office equipment; and (d) other incremental operating costs such as office
supplies and equipment maintenance, which would be financed, as all other recurrent costs, on a declining
scale.
A.    PROJECT COSTS
4.1.   The total project cost, including physical and price coningencies, and tax  and duties of about
US$8.1 million, is estimated at US$355.9 million equivalent, of which an estimated US$14.1 million would
be foreign exchange (Fable 4.1). The baseline cost is estimatd at US$322.1 million. Investment costs
amount to 81 % of base costs and recurrent costs amount to 19% of base costs. Project costs were estimated
at July 1992 price levels and include physical contingencies of 5% for equipment, minor office
rehabilitation, and for technical assistance for studies and surveys. Price contingencies were calculated at
3.7% per year for 1992-97. These rates have been applied to local and foreign costs as well, as periodic
exchange rate adjustments based upon purchasing power parity are assumed to compensate for the difference
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rate.
4.2. Project cost estimates are based on rocent experience with training and stipend costs. Estimated
costs for minor office rehabilitation are based on detailed cost anysos of five typical State employment
offices. Estimated costs of computer, training, and office equipment are based on local market prices.
Estimates for technical assistance and studies are based on current rates for local and foreign experts. Cost
estimat for travel allowances and other operating costs are bsed on current costs or costing standards
used by STPS.



- 37 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(US$ iniious)
Project C=gQombonS                                             Local  Foredgn  Total
-US$ million
Productivity Enhanement                                    87 4       1.8   89.2
Labor Market A4jlutment                                    121.2     6     19284
Strengthening of SEEs                                     36.6      1.1   37.7
Retraining Program                                       155.3      5.4  160.7
Information, Policy, and
Institutional Strenghnng                                             4       4
Labor Market Information System                           15.8      3.3   19.1
Institutional Strengthening                               14.7      0.7   15.4
TOTAL BASE COST                                           nu         12     22 1
Physical Contingencies                                     1.3      0.6    1.9
Price Contingencies                                       30.7      1.2   31.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                         341.      14 1  3552
B.    RECURRENT COSIS
4.3.  Incremental recurrent costs of about US$13.6 million annually, on average, would be generatin by
the project. About one half of these costs, or an average of US$6.4 million per year correspond to i
term temporary staff who would be contracted as UPC promoters and program specialists and manageli. It
is expected that by the end of the project period at least one-fifth of UPC promoters' costs would be
absorbed by enterprises. About one fourth of the costs, or an average of US$3.6 million per year,
correspond to operating costs of the SEEs that would continue to be covered by state budgets as currently
formalized in the annual agreements signed between the Federal and State governments. The agreements
for the current year, signed in September, were reviewed during appraisal, those for subsequent years would
be presented to the Bank during the annual reviews (paras. 3.29 and 5.12). Incremental recurrent costs of
US$1.4 million per year, on average, would be generated by activities of the productivity enhancement
component of the project. A portion of these costs would be gradually covered by enterprise associations as
the program becomes institutionalized within these associations. Recurrent costs of about US$320,000 per
year, on average, would be generated by tie establishment of an incentive system for SEE employees; these
costs are expected to be absorbed, over time, by State Governments. The remainder corresponds to
icremental operating costs of the STPS due to the increased level of activities. It is expected that
implementation and sustainability of the programs are feasible with a modest increase in the sector budget of
about two percent per year, even without further participation from enterprises.



- 38 -
4.4.  Incremental recurrent costs under the project are estimated as follows:
(USS million)
XaS£                              2a      94   2       96    97   IgTal
Total Recurrent Costs             11.41' 12.8  13.8  14.7   15.0  67.7
V Includes start-up project costs for 1992.
C.    FINANCING PLAN
4.5.   The project would be financed by the Bank, the Federal and State Govermments and private
enterprises. The proposed loan of US$174.0 million would finance 50% of total project costs net of taxes
(or 49 % of total project costs). The loan would be made to NAFIN, which would make the funds available
to STPS for the execution of the project. The Federal Government would finance US$114.9 million, or
32% of total project costs. The contribution of private enterprises participating in in-service training and
retraining and benefitting from CIMO technical assistance provided under the project would be about
US$49.0 million, or 14% of project costs. State Governments would finance the remainder, US$18.0
million, or 5% of total project costs. Assurance of the adequacy of annual budget allocations by the Federal
and State Governments would be sought during the project annual implementation reviews (para. 5.12).
The contribution of private enterprises would be ensured through the cost-sharing arrangements described in
paras. 3.19-3.22. The Bank loan would finance 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 47% of local
expenditures. The relatively high percentage of local cost financing under the project is the consequence of
the project's small foreign exchange component. It is justified by the need to ensure a significant impact on
the sector's development and to facilitate desired policy changes. Incremental recurrent costs and stipends
to unemployed workers would be financed by the Bank on a declining basis. Most MSME support activities
would be financed on a declining basis since cost-sharing by enterprises would increase gradually. Also
fixed-term temporary staff services would be financed on a declining basis (para. 4.14).
Firlancing Plan                                  LocS        Foreign        Total
US$million
Federal Government                              114.9          0.0         114.9
State Governments                                18.0          0.0         18.0
Private Enterprises                              49.0          0.0         49.0
IBRD                                            159.9         14.1        174.0
TOTAL                                           31            1.          3S
D.  PROCURENMNT
4.6.   Procurement for goods, office refurbishing, and services would be done following procedures
consistent with Bank guidelines. Procurement of goods and services will be carried out by STPS at the
central level, except for: (a) consulting services for enterprises where the enterprises select the service
providers and bear a continuously increasing share of the costs; (b) local private and public training
providers for the retraining program, who would be selected by SEEs based on specific selection criteria
and on their ability to meet training course requirements; and (c) equipment for a maximum of five private
quality control laboratories where the Government would contribute not more than US$100,000 in each
case. Standard bidding documents agreed upon between the Bank and the Mexican Government would be
used during project implementation. The project executing agency, STPS, has substantial experience with



- 39 -
TABLE 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method                          Total
Project Elenent                                    ICB         LCB         Other        NB..F       Cost
1. WORKS
1.4/                     1.4
1 1 Minor office rehabilitation                                             (1.3)                   (1.3)
2. GOODS
2.1 Equipment and mobile units                     14.0         2.0         1.2 A/                   17.2
(14.0)       (1.7)        (1.0)                  (16.7)
2.2 Publications and printed materials                                      1.4 b/                   1.4
(1.3)                   (1.3)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1 Publicity campaigns                                                     4.3 _/                   4.3
(3.9)                   (3.9)
3.2 Studies, surveys, and local and foreign                                24.11/                    24.1
technical assistance                                                    (21.7)                  (21.7)
3.3 Specialized assistance to enterprises and                              93.1 /                    93.1
training for unemployed                                                 (30.1)                  (50.1)
3.4 Staff training                                                         6.0 2/2/                  6.0
(6.0)                   (6.0)
4. MISCELLANEOUS
4.1 Stipends for trainees                                                  140.8 d/                 140.8
(42.2)                  (42.2)
4.2 Staff incentives, travel and incremental                               49.7_d/       18.0        67.7
opeating costs                                                         (30.8)        (0.0)      (30.8)
14.0         2.0        321.9         18.0       355.9
TOTAL                                             (14.0)       (1.7)       (1583)        (0.0)      (174.0)
Note: Figures in parenthum are the repctivo amounts financed by the Bank loan. N.B.F.: Not Bank-Fnaed.
I/ Local shopping obtaining quotations from at let three uppliom.
h/ Local shopping and/or direct contracting.
SI Consultants and other rervice contract procured in accordanc with World Bank, GCuiduline: Use of Cewukants by World Bank Rorrowrs
and by the World Rak as Eecuidng Agexy (Wrrhington, DC, August 1981).
d/ Does not involve procurement.
*/ US$2.0 million, for internal training, doe not involve procureent.
Bank procurement guidelines, has already used and will continue to use bidding documents in accordance
with the latest agreements between the Government and the Bank, and has procedures and norms acceptable
to the Bank. Table 4.2 below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
4.7.   Minor Office Rehabilitation. It is expected that about 47 State employment offices would undergo
minor rehabilitation. Because of their modest size and scattered locations, it would not be justified to



- 40 -
procure these works through ICB procedures. Therefore, rehabilitation and refurbishing works costing
US$50,000 or less and up to an aggregate of US$1.4 million would be contracted on the basis of price
quotations obtained from at least three contractors. LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used
when rehabilitation and refurbishing works can be grouped in contracts estimated to cost more than
US$50,000; however, such cases are not expected. Individual contract values are expected to range
between US$15,000 to US$30,000.
4.8.   Equipment and Mobile Units. Equipment to be procured under the project amounts to US$17.2
million. Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, audiovisual and office equipment, computers, including
software and maintenance, supplemental training center equipment and the mobile units would be procured
through ICB. The 24 mobile units for the SEEs amount to US$0.9 million. Equipment valued at more than
US$50,000 but no more than US$250,000 would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank, up to an aggregate value of US$2.0 million. Contracts for office and other equipment valued at
US$50,000 or less and not exceeding US$1.2 million in aggregate would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers.
4.9.   Publications and Printed Materials. Contracts for printing promotion and information materials and
publications, totaling US$1.4 million, are expected to average below US$50,000 and would be procured
through local shopping or, in cases where the materials are proprietary and obtainable only from one
source, through direct contracting. Should the cost of any package exceed US$50,000, LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank would be used; however, such cases are not expected.
4.10. Technical Assistance and Studies. All the surveys and some of the labor market studies would be
contracted with private or public sector institutions and with individual . The smaller studies would be done
by STPS's staff. Publicity campaigns would be contracted with private specialized firms. Technical
assistance would be required mainly for institutional strengthening of SEEs and STPS, and long-term
consultants would be contracted to provide key services at the central and local levels. The selection and
appointment of would be consistent with the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.
4.11. Prior Review. All procedures, documents, bid evaluation and contract awards for ICB procurement
of equipment, mobile units, other goods and services would be subject to prior review by the Bank. LCB
bid packages would be too small for effective ex-awe review by the Bank, and therefore only the first LCB
procurement for equipment and for printing of promotion and information materials would be reviewed ex-
ante, regardless of their value. For consultant contracts valued at less than US$50,000 the Bank's prior
review would cover only the Terms of Reference, with the exception, inter alia, of consultant assignments
of a critical nature and for amendments to contracts raising the original contract value above the specified
threshold. These will require prior review by the Bank, in accordance with Bank guidelines. An ex-post
review of contracts disbursed against statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be conducted during field
supervision on the basis of random sampling covering at least one in five contracts. Such review would
verify compliance with Bank's consultant guidelines and the use of an agreed upon model contract
document. The proposed prior review levels cover about 70% of contracts for goods financed under the
loan.
4.12. Recording of Procurement Information. The Borrower and the Bank would continue to record
procurement information in a format agreed under Ln. 2876-ME, including completing Forms 384. The
timing of works, goods and service contracts for the first year of project implementation was agreed during
appraisal. The timing of procurement for subsequent years would be agreed during the annual project



- 41 -
implementation reviews and would be based on implementation progress and budgetary resource availability
(para. 5.12).
4.13. Incremental Salaries and Other Operating Costs. The project includes US$67.7 million of
incremental operating costs (see Annex 6) that would not be subject to special procurement regulations.
E.    DISBURSEMENTS
4.14. The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)    Computer and office equipment, audiovisual, laboratory and training equipment, and mobile
units, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 90%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally, excluding taxes (paras. 3.12, 3.19-
3.22, 3.25-3.26, 3.41, 3.60-3.63);
(b)   Office rehabilitation, 90% of total expenditures (para. 3.26);
(c)    Technical assistance services, studies, surveys, and staff training, 100% of expenditures,
excluding taxes (paras. 3.19, 3.26-3.27, 3.30, 3.43, 3.45, 3.47-3.48, 3.53, 3.57, 3.60,
3.62);
(d)    Temporary, fixed-term staff, at a rate of 100% until an aggregate amount of US$4.5 million
has been reached, thereafter, disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of
80% until an aggregate amount of US$14.0 million has been reached, thereafter,
disbursements would be made at a rate of 40% until an aggregate amount of US$16.0
million has been reached, and the remainder would be disbursed at a rate of 25 % (paras.
3.6, 3.19, 3.48, 3.63);
(e)    Training of private and public institution trainers, 70% (paras. 3.12, 3.18);
(f)   In-service training of workers and supervisors, at a rate of 35% until an aggregate amount
of US$4.5 million has been reached, thereafter, disbursements for this category would be
made at a rate of 25 % until the aggregate amount of US$9.5 million has been reached, the
remainder would be disbursed at a rate of 15% (paras. 3.6-3.8);
(g)   Technical assistance to enterprises, at a rate of 70% until an aggregate of US$1.7 million
has been reached; thereafter, disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of
60% until the aggregate amount of US$3.0 million has been reached, thereafter, at a rate of
50% until the aggregate amount of US$4.0 million has been reached, and the remainder
would be disbursed at a rate of 40% (paras. 3.9 and 3.12);
(h)    Stipends to trainees, at a rate of 55% until an aggregate amount of US$16.0 million has
been reached; thereafter, at a rate of 40% until an aggregate amount of US$25.0 million has
been reached, thereafter, at a rate of 25% until the aggregate amount of US$35.4 million
has been reached, and the remainder would be disbursed at a rate of 10% (paras. 3.36-
3.38);



- 42 -
(i)    Training programs for the unemployed, at a rate of 100%, excluding taxes (paras. 3.36-
3.38);
(j)    Promotion and information materials, publications and related services, at a rate of 100%,
excluding taxes (paras. 3.8, 3.19, 3.25, 3.45, 3.52, 3.60, 3.62); and
(k)   Incremental operating costs, travel expenses and staff incentives, at a rate of 100% until an
aggregate amount of US$3.0 million has been reached, thereafter, at a rate of 80% until the
aggregate amount of US$7.5 million has been reached, thereafter, at a rate of 40% until the
aggregate amount of US$9.0 million has been reached, and the remaining funds would be
disbursed at a rate of 25% (paras. 3.28, 3.63).
The disbursement schedules for (f) and (g) respond to the need to gradually increase the cost-sharing by
enterprises of MSME support activities. No disbursements would be made against operating costs of the
SEEs financed by the State Governments.
4.15. Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of 5½h years against withdrawal
applications, to be fully documented for expenditures under contracts valued at more than US$50,000 for
consultants and US$250,000 equivalent for goods and office rehabilitation. Claims for expenditures under
contracts of lesser amounts as well as those related to stipends for trainees, fixed-term temporary staff,
training, and all incremental operating expenditures, would be disbursed against presentation of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the supporting documentation would be retained by NAFIN for periodic
inspection by the Bank and by external auditors. The Government would set up a Special Account at Banco
de Mexico in US dollars with an initial deposit of US$12.0 million representing an estimated four months of
Bank-financed expenditures. During negotiations. agreement was reached on the Special Account and on
retroacfive financing of up to USSI1.0 million to cover eligible ependitures incurred after Jul I . 1992
(para. 7.2(k)). Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures for key activities of the productivity
enhancement and labor market adjustment components would be required to avoid interruption of technical
support to enterprises and training of unemployed and displaced workers between the loan closing of the
existing project (Ln. 2876-ME) and effectiveness of the proposed project.
F.    ACCOUNTIG AND AUDITING
4.16. STPS would maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the project. Central records
would reflect the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the entire project. Other
sets of records, one for each operating unit (UPCs and SEEs) would be maintained by each unit, under
supervision from the central level, and would reflect the resources and expenditures in connection with
project implementation in or for their respective programs. Data from these operating units would be sent
to the central level for consolidation purposes. During negotiations. the Government proided assurances
that STPS would: ri) have the records and accounts for each fiscal =ear audited bv independent and
gualeied auditors. in accordance with reneralh accepted auditing standards and procedures. and with the
spcidfic current understanding with the Mcxican authorities, (Qi fmrnish to the Bank as soon as avilable.
but in am case not later than six months aftr the end of each year. a certified cop of the agreed audit
reports: and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other informaton concerning the records and accounts as well as
the audit as the Bank would from time to time reasonabl request (para. 7.1(g)). For all expenditures with
respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs), and for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the Special Account,



- 43 -
STPS would provide to NAFIN all records and accounts necessary to allow the timely performance of its
obligations and, to the independent auditors, both records and supporting documentation.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    PROJECT READINESS FOR IMLEMENTATION
5.1.  The project was prepared by STPS staff belonging to the DGE and the CGPEET, placed under the
Undersecretary "B," with periodic inputs from Bank missions. Experience with the current project and
STPS's desire to have continuity in project activities and improved services for enterprises and the
unemployed resulted in an accelerated and well-focused project design process. Project preparation is in an
advanced state of readiness for implementation. Key regions for establishing new UPCs have been selected
and designs for in-service training and technical assistance to enterprises have been completed. SEEs are
expected to deliver improved retraining program services. Staff training course design is being developed,
the design of the information system is completed, and the list of surveys and main studies to be completed
under the project has been prepared. Also, standard bidding documents to be used under the project are
completed, as well as standard equipment lists for the first year of project implementation. These were
reviewed and found satisfactory. The project design has also benefitted from incorporation of experience
with pilot programs and from several studies undertaken to: (a) evaluate the impact and cost-effectiveness
of the existing retraining program; (b) assess the role of CIMO in relation to other ongoing support
programs to MSMEs; (c) diagnose the main operational weaknesses of the SEEs; (d) analyze the importance
and nature of unemployment in Mexico; and (e) review the coverage and quality of existing labor market
statistics (Annex 9). The main findings of these studies were discussed in chapter I (paras. 2.2-2.35).
B.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION
5.2.   The project organization would have two levels: the central level, represented by STPS, which
would have overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation; and the local level, through
operating units of the SEEs and UPCs, which would be responsible for the implementation and delivery of
services to unemployed and displaced workers and to enterprises. This organizational setup is similar to the
one used under the previous project and proved to be effective.
C.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
5.3.   Central Level. Project implementation would be carried out within the existing organizational
structure of STPS through units whose operational and administrative responsibilities are directly linked to
project components. Overall authority for project management would be vested in the Undersecretary of
Labor (Undersecretary "B"). The Undersecretary would be assisted in the general management and
coordination of the project by the CGPEET and by the DGE (see Annex 5, Figure 1). The DGE has
already demonstrated its ability to implement effectively and efficiently a Bank-financed project (Ln. 2876-
ME). Institutional strengthening of the DGE would be mostly directed at modernizing its administrative and
operational systems, and at updating the skills of existing and new staff. By contrast, the CGPEET, while
having very qualified staff at the managerial level, is weak in technical areas; thus, institutional
strengthening activities would focus on the provision of specialized technical assistance, to help develop core
groups of staff with technical skills (see technical assistance requirements in Annex 6, Table 7. During the
annual reviews, implementation progress will be assessed and agreements would be reached on further
institutional developmental plans (para. 5.12).



- 44 -
5.4.   CGPEET would be responsible for coordinating the Information, Policy and Institutional
Strengthening component of the project and implementation of some of its activities through its three
General Directorates (Szbcoordinaciones): (a) liaising and entering into agreements with public and private
organizations that would conduct surveys and studies under the project; (b) conducting specialized studies,
analyzing and publishing the results; (c) issuing periodic publications with labor market information and
reviewing technical STPS publications; (d) managing and improving the labor market information system
and the labor market documentation centers; (e) coordinating delivery of technical training for staff; and (f)
coordinating the installation of computers in central offices of STPS.
5.5.   DGE would be directly responsible for the coordination and implementation of the Productivity
Enhancement and the Labor Market Adjustment components of the project. It would also have direct
responsibility for specific activities under the Information, Policy, and Institutional Strengthening component
of the project: (a) managing, updating, and improving DGE's human resources and labor market
information database; (b) providing technical support to STPS units in the implementation of computerized
data collection and processing in the SEEs and UPCs, and training of staff in the use of the systems; (c)
carrying out studies and basic data analysis to support DGE's policies and programs; (d) monitoring
implementation of project activities and evaluating the impact of the productivity enhancement and retraining
activities of the project; and (e) coordinating staff training activities of DGE and the SEEs and UPCs.
5.6.  To facilitate coordination between CGPEET and DGE and to support decision-making related to
studies, surveys, and publications, a high-level technical committee was set up in June 1992. It is chaired
by the General Coordinator of the CGPEET and its members are the General Directors of the technical
areas of STPS. The committee would be supported by outside experts when needed. Its recommendations
would be presented to the Undersecretary "B" for approval.
5.7.   The CGPEET General Coordinator and the DGE General Director would be assisted and supported
by staff and consultants from their directorates and other STPS administrative units to coordinate and
implement project activities, manage personnel, procurement, consultant contracting, accounting and
financial activities under the project. STPS, having successfully implemented the Manpower Training
project through DGE, already has adequate support systems in place to manage and monitor the project's
physical, financial and human resource activities. The use of additional fixed-term temporary staff and
technical assistance would reinforce its capacity to manage and implement the new project activities (para.
3.63). STPS is also familiar with Bank procedures.
5.8.   Local Level. Responsibility for assisting in project implementation at the local level would rest with
the operating units of the SEEs and the UPCs, with support from DGE at the central level. The local
operating units would be responsible for implementing project components and for providing assistance to
unemployed and displaced workers, as well as technical assistance and support services to enterprises within
the area of their jurisdiction. Both UPCs and SEEs have acquired considerable experience in implementing
the CIMO and retraining programs through their involvement in the Manpower Training project.
D.  IMPLEMNTATION SCHEDULE
5.9.   The proposed project would be implemented over a period of about five years and is expeted to be
completed by December 31, 1997, with the closing date set for June 30, 1998. The cost estimates prepared
for the various components (Annex 6) and implementation schedule (Annex 8) would serve as a basis for
project implementation planning and would be updated annually by STPS in preparation for the annual
project implementation reviews (para. 5.12). During the annual reviews with the Government, the Bank



- 45 -
would pay particular attention to the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation of project components,
and changes would be agreed as needed. In addition, an in-depth mid-term review (para. 5.13) would
provide an opportunity for a preliminary assessment of project impact and performance and for the
definition of necessary adjustments.
E.    MONITORING TARGETS
5.10. To assist in the monitoring of project implementation, particularly in the context of the annual and
mid-term reviews, a comprehensive and well-focused list of monitoring indicators would be used (Annex 8).
It includes a detailed implementation schedule for all surveys and studies. This list was discussed and
agreed upon during appraisal. During negotiafions. a=reemce was reached on the list of peCrfrance
indicators and Droject rogress review criteria to be used including for the annual and mid-term reviews
(para. 7.20)). In order to assess the developmental impact of the project, the following evaluations and
monitoring indicators are considered critical (with gender analysis integral to items (i), (ii), and (iii)):
(i)    PROBECAT Evaluation                                         Annex 5.4
(ii)   CIMO Evaluation                                             Annex 5.5
(iii)   Basic Education & Training Program Evaluation              Annex 5.6
(iv)   Number of Workers Participating in CIMO Training Courses    Annex 8
(v)    Numbers of Workers Trained under PROBECAT                   Annex 8
(vi)   Number of Labor Statistics Publications                     Annex 8
F.    LOAN SUPERVISION, ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS
5.11. Project supervision is expected to take place at least twice a year, to monitor progress with the
proposed project. Supervision missions at the appropriate point of the annual budget cycle would seek
assurance of the adequacy of budget allocations for each component, which would be confirmed in the
annual reviews. For the surveys, studies and program evaluation subcomponents, supervision would need to
include experts in labor economics. Overall supervision needs for the proposed project are expected to be
somewhat higher than those required by the Manpower Training project. They are estimated at about 125
staff weeks, or an average of 25 staff weeks per year, over the project life. The required supervision team
would be a combination of Bank staff and consultants with experience in the operation of similar projects in
Latin America and other regions. Their main areas of expertise would be labor economics, training,
business administration, and administration of employment services. The mid-term review, which would
rely on a similar team of experts, would require about 12 staffweeks in addition to regular supervision
requirements.
5.12. Specific annual reviews, no later than November 30 of each year, would provide an opportunity for
an assessment of project impact and performance, and for an agreement of necessary adjustments. During
these reviews, progress in compliance with the actions and policies specified in the sector policy statement
(Annex 1) would be assessed. The cost estimates prepared for the various components (Annex 6) and the
key monitoring indicators and implementation targets (Annex 8) would serve as a basis for project
implementation planning, and would be updated annually by STPS in preparation for the annual reviews.
The annual project implementation review would: (a) analyze previous year performance as measured by
the set of monitoring indicators and targets, and review budget allocation and expenditures; (b) analyze and
agree on the proposed work plan and budget level for the following year to ensure the adequacy of
counterpart funding; (c) review the surveys and studies carried out the previous year and discuss their
implications for project design, as well as discuss and agree on the Terms of Reference for studies to be



- 46 -
undertaken in the following year; (d) verify that the timing of completion of the survey and study program
complies with the agreed upon schedule; (e) assess the effectiveness of project management and coordination
and discuss adjustments to be made in the project's implementation schedule or targets; (f) review the
annual agreements with the State Governments; and (g) consider progress in implementing the Government's
policy statement. The proposed work plan and budget for the following year would have to be previously
defined at the central and local levels and contain a detailed description of targets and planned activities.
During appraisal, the 1992 budget was reviewed and verified to include financial provisions for project
start-up activities. During negotiations. thc Govewnment rovided assurances that STPS would: fi) conduct.
jointlv with the Bank. the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). and NAFIN. annual proIct
impIementation reviews in November of each year. beiinning in 1993: and rii) by January 31 and July 31 oe
each year. beginning in 1993. vreXare and submit to the Bank annual wropress rCeorts on the
implementation of the proect in accordance with tarWets established in !revious semi-annual work and
investment ians. incuding the proMosed budgetary rcuiremnts for vro!ct imvlementation during the
subsLc.ggyfgear (para. 7.1(h)). By March 31, 1995, a special review of the retraining program would take
place, based on the results of the first evaluation, and would condition further Bank financial support to that
program (para. 3.37).
5.13. The third annual review would be the mid-term review and would be undertaken no later than
November 30, 1995. It would assess overall project performance and initial impact in the light of project
objectives and STPS policies. The key areas to be covered, in addition to all aspects of project
implementation covered during the annual reviews include:
(a)    Productivity Enhancement Component: (i) the annual operation reviews of the CIMO
program; (ii) the results of the first evaluation of the impact of CIMO; (iii) progress in the
financial participation of private enterprises in CIMO activities; and (iv) progress in
implementing the industrial information system;
(b)    Labor Market Adjustment Component: (i) progress in increasing efficiency of the SEEs; (ii)
impact of the introduction of the work incentive scheme; and (iii) progress in implementing
the information system on local and regional labor markets; and
(c)   Infor,nation, Policy and Institutional Strengthening Component: (i) progress in the
development and implementation of the information system; (ii) results and findings from
the survey and study program, and implications for project implementation; (iii) experience
with the development of the documentation center and publications program; and (iv)
progress in the human resource development and institutional strengthening program.
5.14. STPS would prepare detailed terms of reference for the mid-term review based on all aspects of
project implementation. These Terms of Reference would be submitted to the Bank for comments, and
STPS would subsequently prepare the report. On the basis of this review, the Bank and STPS would agree
on adjustments to project design and implementation, as necessary. ,D-ur  negotarions. t c
provided assurances that: (1) the in-depth mid-term review would cover all aspecs of Droicst
implementation.: (1) it would be conducted bv mS. under terms of referce satisfactov to the Bank. to
assessDroc-t performonce and impact: (ffff results would be submitted to the Bank for its review and
comment bv Jul 31. 1995. and (lv) on the basis of this review, action glans. satisfactor to the Bank. would
be preared and initated by December 1. I99 (para. 7.1(i)).



- 47 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    PROJECT BENEFTIS
6.1.  The project would increase productivity and competitiveness in MSMEs, creating higher earnings
and employment opportunities for Mexican workers. About 35,000 enterprises, employing about 1.0
million workers, are expected to be reached. Project benefits, however, would extend beyond the
participating enterprises, as the project is intended to have an important demonstration effect. Through the
increased involvement of private enterprises in MSME support programs and the promotion of closer inter-
institutional links, the project would also foster improvements in the quality of training services supplied to
enterprises and a faster rate of adoption of new technologies through provision of a better trained labor
force. The labor market adjustment process would be eased as the improved quality of services provided to
unemployed and displaced workers would reduce the costs of hiring and job search, improve the job
matching process and thus provide better opportunities for employment stability and subsequent wage
growth. Approximately 2 million unemployed workers are expected to benefit from placement services over
the project life. About 300,000 unemployed workers whose current skills fail to match those in demand
would also benefit from the training to be provided. The cost effectiveness of the retraining programs will
be enhanced by targeting the training to those groups (workers with at least completed primary education
and some work experience) where evaluation has demonstrated the highest rates of return to such training.
The results of the evaluation showed a 20-30 % monthly salary increase for male trainees with some prior
work experience. For male target trainees, the evaluation showed that benefits of program participation
outweigh the costs of the program within 3 months of starting employment. For younger inexperienced
workers and rural migrants, the project is expected to improve their entry conditions in the urban labor
market. In addition to sharing the general benefits of the project listed above, women would benefit from
the improvements to be introduced in the training programs and reduction of labor market barriers which
hamper the realization of the full benefits of training by females. Finally, the project would enhance the
Government's capacity to design, monitor and evaluate labor market policies and programs, thus
contributing to a more efficient use of public resources. The project is not expected to have any significant
environmental impact.
B.  IPACT ON WOMEN
6.2.   Women hold about one third of all jobs in the manufacturing sector and nearly balf in the service
sector. They would thus comprise a significant fraction of workers benefitting from project-supported
assistance to MSMEs. Women also suffer more frequently from unemployment than men, and when
unemployed, suffer spells of longer duration. They would therefore largely benefit from job placement
assistance and retraining programs. Agreement has been reached with Government that a full investigation
will be carried out and an appropriate action plan developed to deal with the issue of effectiveness of
training provided to women (para. 3.35 and Annex 1).
C.    PROJECT RISKS
6.3.   The main risks are: (a) a possible decline in Government commitment to project objectives after the
change in administration in 1994. The risk is small given the existing strong support for current economic
policies and the importance given to productivity and mobility issues in light of the North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA); (b) insufficient budgetary allocations to guarantee program sustainability
beyond project completion. This risk will be minimized by the coverage of trainee stipends and recurrent
costs on a declining basis, by increased private sector participation in the financing and operation of the



- 48 -
CIMO program, and by rigorous monitoring of budgetary allocations during the annual project
implementation reviews; (c) slower than expected acceptance by enterprises of the productivity enhancement
actions. This risk quite small given growing support by private enterprises of interventions initiated under
the ongoing Bank-supported Manpower Training Project and will be further mitigated by strengthened
program management and availability of services; and (d) project complexity and the fact that there are
many implementing agencies at different levels may limit the achievement of the project objectives. This
risk will be mitigated through the early identification and resolution of any problems which develop through
close supervision, and the mid-term and annual project reviews.
VII.  GE!NSR3A                 AND RECOEMEMINATION
7.1.  During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)    a final agreement between STPS, NAFIN and SECOFI, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
formalized and submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1993 (para. 3.16);
(b)   the precise guidelines for the operation of the work incentive scheme for SEE staff,
including an implementation schedule, would be submitted to the Bank for review by March
31, 1993, and that the Evaluation Committee would be established by June 30, 1993 (para.
3.28);
(c)   the annual agreements with the State Governments for subsequent years would be reviewed
with the Bank during the annual reviews, so as to verify the adequacy of State financial
contributions for the operation of the SEEs (para. 3.29);
(d)   (i) the precise guidelines for the operation of the pilot Basic Education and Training
program, including contents of the program courses and detailed operational procedures,
would be presented to the Bank by May 31, 1993 for review and approval; (ii) the results of
the evaluation of the pilot in line with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would be
submitted to the Bank for review no later than March 31, 1994 and that based on those
results, agreement would be reached on the continuation and possible redesign of the
program; (iii) a satisfactory agreement between STPS and INEA for the expansion of the
Basic Education and Training Program beyond the pilot stage would be signed by May 31,
1994; and (iv) an evaluation of the expanded program would be undertaken along the lines
agreed upon during appraisal and described in Annex 5.6 (para. 3.40);
(e)   (i) the set of short, medium and long-term statistics to be used for labor market monitoring
would be defined and submitted to the Bank for review no later than April 30, 1993; and (ii)
once defined, these statistics would be updated and published on a regular basis beginning in
June 1993 (para. 3.45);
(f)   (1) all survey questionnaires would be sent to the Bank for review; and (ii) basic survey
results would be published and the micro-data be made available to external research
institutes, academic institations and the Bank within a year of data collection, so as to
stimulate timely resarch on labor issues (para. 3.47);



- 49 -
(g)    STPS would: (i) have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent
and qualified auditors, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
procedures, and with the specific current understanding with the Mexican authorities; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each year, a certified copy of the agreed audit reports; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the records and accounts as well as the audit as the Bank
would from time to time reasonably request (para. 4.16);
(h)    STPS would: (i) conduct, jointly with the Bank, the Secretariat of Finance and Public
Credit (SHCP), and NAFIN, annual project implementation reviews in November of each
year, beginning in 1993; and (ii) by January 31 and July 31 of each year, beginning in
1993, prepare and submit to the Bank annual progress reports on the implementation of the
project in accordance with targets established in previous semi-annual work and investment
plans, including the proposed budgetary requirements for project implementation during the
subsequent year (para. 5.12); and
(i)   (i) the in-depth mid-term review would cover all aspects of project implementation; (ii) it
would be conducted by STPS, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assess
project performance and impact; (iii) results would be submitted to the Bank for its review
and comment by July 31, 1995; and (iv) on the basis of this review, action plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared and initiated by December 1, 1995 (para. 5.14).
7.2.   During neggtiations, agreements were reached, satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)    on a final sector policy statement which includes a broad view of the Government's labor
market strategies for the project implementation period and beyond and their linkages with
the proposed project (para. 2.39);
(b)    on the selection criteria for quality control laboratories and that proposals for creation of
quality control laboratories, including feasibility studies, would be sent to the Bank for
review and approval (para. 3.10);
(c)    on the selection criteria for centers and/or independent instructors who would beefit from
CIMO support (para. 3.15);
(d)    on the selection criteria for instructors belonging to workers' organizations who would
benefit from CIMO support (para. 3.18);
(e)   that the Government would submit to the Bank the revised operational mauals for SEEs by
June 30, 1993 (para. 3.25);
(f)    on the terms of reference and timing of the PROBECAT evaluations for: (i) retraining for
displaced workers program; and (ii) training for young inexperienced workers program
(para. 3.37);
(g)    on terms of reference and implementation schedule for the surveys and on the definition of
the content and purpose of additional specific surveys would be discussed during the annul
reviews (para. 3.47);



- 50 -
Oh)    on the terms of reference, schedules and consultant selection processes for the first-year
studies and that the terms of reference, review and implementation schedules for the studies
to be carried out during each subsequent year would be discussed and agreed upon with the
Bank ex-ante during the annual implementation reviews (para. 3.49);
(i)    on the terms of reference and completion dates of the evaluations of the CIMO and
retraining programs and that the Government would: (i) submit to the Bank the results of
these evaluations on the specified dates for review; (ii) discuss their implications for
program design; and (iii) develop a satisfactory action plan, as may be needed, to
incorporate the required changes (para. 3.57);
()    that the Government would submit during the annual reviews, satisfactory updated training
plans, revised on the basis of the annual needs analysis, for the following year of program
implementation (para. 3.60);
(k)    on the Special Account and on retroactive financing of up to US$11.0 million to cover
eligible expenditures incurred after July 1, 1992 (para. 4.15); and
1I)    on the list of performance indicators and project progress review criteria to be used
including for the annual and mid-term reviews (para. 5.10).
7.3.   The conditions for disbursement would be that:
(a)   for the 24 'mobile" employment units, the Government would present an evaluation,
satisfactory to the Bank, of the experience with the six pilot units supported under the
Manpower Training project (Ln. 2876-ME) (para. 3.25); and
(b)   for the work incentive program, the Government would present the guidelines for the
operation of the work incentive scheme for SEE staff, including an implementation schedule,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.28).
7.4.   An event of suspension of disbursements for the retraining program for the unemployed beyond
US$25.0 million would arise if: (i) the Govenment fails to present to the Bank, within 60 days of the time
such amount is reached, a satisfactory evaluation that: (a) measures the impact of altenative training
programs and delivery systems on the employment and earnings of the trainees; (b) identifies possible
improvements in program targeting; and (c) assesses the cost-effectiveness of the program and its different
modalities; and (ii) the Govenment fails to present a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for improving
such retraining program in a manner that takes into account the results of the evaluation. The timetable for
the completion of the evaluation and agreed action plan is by March 31, 1995. Inter alia, the number of
trainees would not exceed 55,000 per annum until such satisfactory evaluation has been completed (para.
3.37).
7.5.   Rsomm         . Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$174 million equivalent to the United Mexican States, to be repaid over a period
of 15 years, including a five-year grace period.



-51-
MECO
IABOR MIARE AND PRODUCITVIff ENHANCDDNTPRJ}C
ANNEX LIST                                                                            Page
ANNEX 1:   Labor Sector Policy Statement            ............................... 53
ANNEX 2:   Labor Mrket Statistics  ...................................  62
Table 1:    Distribution of Total Population 10 Years and over
by Age Group and Education Level .............................  62
Table 2:    Labor Productivity and Total Factor Productivity by Sector .............. 63
Table 3:    Total Factor Productivity by Firm Size ...........................  64
Figure 1:    Manufacturing Productivity 1982-1990: Output per Hour ............... 65
Table 4:    Number of Firms and Employment by Sector and Firm Size  ....      ......... 66
Table 5:    Male Unemployment Rates by Age Group and Level of Education ....    ...... 67
ANNEX 3:   PROBECAT and CIMO Programs ............................  68
Annex 3.1:  Evaluation of the Mexico Labor Retraining Program: Summary of Results   .... 68
Table 1:    Summary of Program Effects .................................  72
Table 2:    Net Benefits by Type of Trainee ............................... 73
Annex 3.2:  Mexico's System for MSME Support and CIMO's Role in it .74
Table 1:  Mexico's System for MSME Support .76
Annex 3.3:  The CIMO Program and its Cost-Sharing with Enterprises .77
Table 1:    Pilot CIMO Program: Costs and Cost-Sharing during 1991 .79
Figure 1:    Cost-Sharing Arrangements under CIMO Pilot Program  ................ 80
ANNEX 4:   Sector Organization ......................................  81
Figure 1:    Organizational Structure of STPS  ..............................  81
Organization and Structure of the National Employment Service (SNE) .... ... 82
ANNEX 5:   Project Desciption  ......................................  84
Figure 1:    Organizational Structure of Project Management ..................... 84
Annex 5.1:  Selection Criteria for Trainees ................................ 85
Annex 5.2:  Training for Young Inexperienced Workers .86
Annex 5.3: Efficiency Indicators .87
Annex 5.4:  Terms of Reference for PROBECAT Evaluation .88
Annex 5.5: Terms of Reference for CIMO Evaluation .91
Annex 5.6:  Terms of Reference for Basic Education and Training Program .96
Annex 5.7: Terms of Reference for Surveys .98
Annex 5.8: Terms of Reference for Studies .107
Annex 5.9: Information Technology Equipment .111
ANNEX 6: Projet Costs .116
Table 1:  Project Cost Summary .116
Table 2:    Summary Account by Project Component ......................... 117
Table 3:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary .118
Table 4:  Summary Accounts by Year .119
Table 5:    Summary Accounts by Year (including contingencies) .120



- 52 -
Table 6:    Project Components by Year        ................................. 121
Table 7:    Technical Assistance, Studies, Surveys and Int     Consultants ....  ....... 122
ANNEX 7:   D                Sddule .       ................................... 123
Table 1:     Estmated Schedule of Disbursements ........        .................... 123
Table 2:     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan .......................... 124
ANNEX 3:   Key Motlt     Indats and bunp               l_mm  t le   .....        ......... 125
Table 1:    Key Monitoring Indicators and Implementation Targets .125
Schedule 1:  Surveys and Studies Implementation Schedule .128
ANNREX9:  Key Docnutb Avaable in the Project Fil.132



-53-                                  An1n I
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
MCO
LAIIOR MAUAND PRDClYEN}IANCEMEN PROJCT
SER CTOR POLICY STATENT
November 19, 1992
Mr. LeWis Proston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.    Over the past decade the Mexican economy has undergone a major transformation. It was
initiated by a profound macroeconomic adjustment process, aimed at eliminating major imbalances
that led in 1982 to a break in the country's development process. At the same time, a set of
structural reforms was put into effect in order to transform a highly regulated and protected economy,
redefine the role of the state and create the necessary conditions both to foster sustained growth of
productive employment and wealth and to respond more effectively to the most pressing needs of the
Mexican people.
2.    The adjustments encompassed a comprehensive tax reform, the successful renegotiation of the
foreign debt and a stabilization strategy based on consensus gathering and a strong fiscal and
monetary adjustment policy. These macroeconomic changes were accompanied by a far reaching
trade reform that turned the Mexican economy into one of the most open among the countries of the
developing world, a deregulation of key sectors such as transport and communications, an extensive
privatization program, and a substantive reform of the ejido system (Mexico's system of communal
farming ownership). In parallel, the Government has financed an unprecdented social policy
program which focuses on the neediest people and is based on community initiatives and participation
in project decision-making.
3.    The macroeconomic stabilization policies, together with the set of structura reforms
implemented during this period, have set the stage for long-term economic development. However,
meeting the demands of a rapidly changing and challenging world and responding more effectively to
the social needs of the population will require sustained action in ongoing reform, complemented by
adequate finance for investment, improved physical infrastructure and, especily, an educated and
skilled labor force. The latte is critical to the country's ability to increase the productivity and living
standards of its workers, to produce higher quality goods and to compete on international markets.
Moreover, full succes of the adjustment program requires policies that are effective in promoting
social mobility and a more equal distribution of the gains from economic reform. These objectives
can be achieved only through sustained investments in human capital.
4.    Further liberaization of the economy through the expected Free Trade Agreement with
Caunda and the U.S. (NAFTA) will accentuat the need for an educated and skilled labor force.



- 54 -                                Annex I
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
NAFTA will represent an unprecedented integration of large economies at very different stages of
development. Mexico's capability to compete with more developed U.S. and Canadian producers will
hinge on its ability to increase the productivity of its workers, adopt and improve new production
processes and technologies, train less-skilled workers, and develop new skills as the structure of
demand evolves. It will also require implementation of policies aimed at increasing labor mobility
and facilitating the flow of labor between expanding and contracting sectors and regions.
5.    Conscious of these needs, the Mexican Government is now giving high priority to the
development of human resources through investments in human capital both before and after entry
into the labor market. It is also making major efforts to reduce the cost of labor mobility and labor
market adjustment. Success in this endeavour requires close collaboration and understanding between
Government, the private sector and the labor movement. In this context, the Government has
committed itself to the following:
National Policy for the Modernization of the Labor Market
6.    In an increasingly interdependent and competitive international environment, Mexico's ability
to increase the living standards of its people depends critically on its capacity to increase the
productivity of its workers and firms, adopt and improve new technologies, produce higher quality
goods and improve the use of its resources. Conscious of this, the present administration has
committed itself to the modernization of the Mexican economy. In this process, the Government has
given highest priority to the development of human resources through investments in education and
training.
7.    As part of its modernization strategy, the Administration established in the National
Development Plan 1989-94 general criteria governing the education and training policy, which are
rooted in principles of equity and efficiency. Based on this policy, the Federal Government has
formulated the National Training and Productivity Program (Programa Nadonal de Capacitaci6n y
Produclvldad 1991-94, PRONACAP). On May 25, 1992, in line with its goal of stimulating the
participation of workers and private-sector firms in the modernization process, the Federal
Government signed an agreement with representatives of business and labor, the National Agreement
for Increased Quality and Productivity (Acuerdo Nadonal para la Elevaci6n de la Producnvidad y la
Calidad, ANEPC).
8.    Recognizing that the modernization of the economy can only be brought about through a
collaborative effort involving all participants in the productive process, the Goverment has sought
the active participation of business, workers and unions in the design of its development policies.
One outcome of this emphasis on dialogue and collaboration is the new Pact for Stability,
Competitiveness and Employment (Pacto para la Estabilidad, La Competitividad y el Emplco,
PECE), replacing the former Pact for Stability and Economic Growth (Pacto para la Estabilidad y cl
Crecmiento Economico), which has served since December 1988 as an instrument for the
Government and the productive sectors to agree on concerted actions to abate inflation, promote
economic growth and structural change. PRONACAP, ANEPC and PECE are described below.
National        aned Ftoduivitv BroX= (PRONACAP)
9.    PRONACAP sets forth the general direction, objectives and characteristics of the
Government's training and productivity strategy. The purpose of the program is to promote a greater



-55-                                   Anex I
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
efficiency in the use of resources, so as to increase productivity and thereby the standards of living of
Mexican workers. PRONACAP recognizes the importance of technological change, access to
information, and improvements in organization and management in achieving greater efficiency in the
use of resources. However, its primary focus is on the development of human resources, which are
viewed as the key element in increasing productivity and sustaining growth.
10.   The main objectives of PRONACAP are to: (i) increase the skills of the labor force as a
means for raising productivity and improving the living standards of Mexican workers; (ii) foster skill
upgrading and retraining of workers necessary to support the adoption of new technologies and rapid
adjustment to changing structures of demand; (iii) promote a work environment that fosters efficiency,
quality and productivity; and (iv) broaden the basis for growth through a wider distribution of
income-generating opportunities within the population.
11.   To achieve these objectives, the Government has undertaken actions to improve the
effectiveness, quality and relevance of both pre-service and in-service training programs. To this end,
PRONACAP has sought to strengthen the linkages between the education and training system and the
productive sector, by encouraging the active participation of business organizations, worker
associations, educational institutions and research centers in the implementation of the program.
12.   In parallel, in the realm of education, the Government has signed the Agreement for the
Modernization of Basic Education on May 18, 1992 which seeks to: (i) adjust the educational system
so that it is more responsive to the needs of the labor market; (ii) increase the coverage and quality of
education for socially disadvantaged groups; and (iii) strengthen math and science education,
beginning at the level of basic education.
National Agreement for Increased Ouality and Productivity (ANEPC)
13.   The National Agreement for Increased Quality and Productivity (ANEPC) was jointly signed
on May 25, 1992 by the Federal Government and representatives of workers' and employers'
associations. It falls within the framework of the PECE and thus is based upon the principles of
dialogue and collaboration between the various participants of the production process. The main
objective of ANEPC is to eliminate structural inefficiencies in the use of resources and barriers to
productivity growth. ANEPC reflects the consensus between the signing parties on the need to foster
a more efficient use of resources, a faster rate of adoption of new technologies in the Mexican
economy, and the need to develop incentives to promote an active participation of the labor force in
the process.
14.   ANEPC emphasizes that sustained increases in productivity cannot be brought about by the
efforts of a single factor of production, be it labor or physical capital; rather, it views productivity
growth as the result of the interaction of a multiplicity of elements involving the planning and
organization of production, the skills and motivation of the worklforce, the availability of financial
resources, an efficient public administration, and an increased capacity to adopt and adapt to
technological change. In consequence, ANEPC underscores the need to Ci) involve all participants in
the production process - workers, managers, administrators, business and labor associations - in a
common effort to achieve sustained increases in quality and productivity; and (ii) ensure equity in the
distribution of benefits which will arise from these productivity and quality gains.



-6 -                                  Annx 1
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
15.   To achieve these objectives, the Federal Government and the representatives of worker and
business associations have set forth the following action plan:
2    Modemizgaion of Organizational Structures of Production. The primary objective of
this strategy is to remove rigidities in the organization and management of production, to
increase the rate of adoption of new technologies in the enterprise, and strengthen firms'
ability to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and fluctuations in worldwide demand.
To this end, efforts will be aimed at promoting more streamlined organizational and
hierarchical structura within the enterprise, through: (i) fostering a greater flow of
information to and within the firm; (ii) developing efficiency indicators for monitoring
enterprises improvements in productivity, quality and consumer satisfaction; (iii) promoting
increased linkage between firms and their suppliers; and (iv) increasing the participation of
workers at all levels within the enterprise, and promoting their understanding of the whole
organizational structure of the firm.
f                  _.A                            The goal is to strengthen
administration and management in the private and public sectors, to facilitate the
modenization of organizational structures of production in the context of an increasingly open
and competitive economy. To this end, actions will focus on: (i) upgrading the skills of
administrators and managers; (ii) improving the efficiency and quality of public services; and
(iii) creating a work environment that emphasizes quality and productivity, and encourages
innovation.
()    Increased Emphasis on Human Resources. ANEPC emphasizes that labor must be
viewed as a valuable and essential factor of production, complementary to physical capital and
technology. It recognizes that increasing productivity requires sustained investments in the
human capital of workers, suitable working conditions and work environment, and incentives
for workers to reward individual performance. This will be achieved through: (i) promotion
of in-service raning for the whole occupational structure of the enterprise, including
retraining of workers to adapt their skills to changing technological requirements; (ii)
improvements in work conditions through better enforcement of existing regulations and
promotion programs for occupational safety and health; (iii) the development of a well
structured set of incentiveg for workers through an increased flow of information between
workers and their supervisors, enhanced opportunities for self-development and job
satisfaction of workers, and the recognition and reward of good performance; and (iv) the
revision of existing promotion and wage schemes to reward individual performance.
f)               g of Labor Relations.    ANEPC highlights the need to: (i) strengthen
the dialogue betwen workers, managers and enterprise owners to minimize conflict; and (ii)
promote the participation of worker associations in the definition of new reward systems, and
in the enforcement of regulations governing safety, health and worker protection in the
enterprise. These objectives will be promoted through a strengthened system of employer-
worker dialogue and improved conciliation procedures.
Z  Technological IXrovement Raesrch and Develgpment. ANEPC stresse that
technology research and the adoption of new technologies are key to improving the quality,
producdvity and international competitiveness of enterprises. The parties agree to: (i)
strengthen science education within the established educational system, beginning at the level



- 57 -                                Annex I
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
of basic education; (ii) promote investments in R&D within firms; and (iii) develop training,
information systems and consulting services to induce a faster rate of adoption of new
technologies within the private sector.
(fl    Maintaining a Favorable Macroeconomic Environment. ANEPC underscores the
Government's commitment to maintaining a macroeconomic environment that fosters price
stability and real income per capita growth. To simulate a more efficient use of resources,
increased competitiveness and productivity growth, the Government also commits itself to:(i)
attend to the needs for physical and human infrastructure; (ii) improve the efficiency of public
services; (iii) ensure that the regulatory framework promotes efficiency and competitiveness;
and (iv) develop information systems that facilitate the decision-making process and the
monitoring of productivity performance.
Pact for Stability. Compdetitivenes and Floymept (PCE)
16.   The PECE, an agreement signed betwe :n the Federal Government, business, agricultural
sector and labor on October 22, 1992, is intended to strengthen the Government's strategy to involve
the private sector and workers' associations in consolidating the country's economic stability,
furthering its competitiveness, and creating employment. A principal objective of the PECE is to
support actions that will lead to increased productivity and competitiveness, generate employment
while at the same time maintaining price stability.
17.   The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Mexico, the United States and
Canada and the decline of global economic activity will require a more strengthened effort to improve
productivity and thus competitiveness. The NAFTA will result in more opportunities for economic
expansion, increase in exports, expansion in productive investments, employment generation and a
more equitable distribution of income.
18.   The main points embodied in the PECE are: (i) maintaining strict fiscal discipline through the
Government's proposed Income Law Initiative and Budget, currently being reviewed by Congress; (i)
achieving single digit inflation; (iii) setting the minimum wage, on the basis of the PECE, that will be
in effect on January 1, 1993; (iv) revising contractual agreements between labor and business to
encourage economic growth and employment generation, and improve workers' incomes; (v)
businesses will absorb, as much as possible, the cost increases derived from the agreement without
increasing the prices of their products and services and will maintain their adequate supply; (vi)
establishing agricultural sector support programs that would benefit the producers without increasing
consumer prices; and (vii) expanding the range of the floating exchange rate (banda de flotacion). A
single Committee for PECE Monitoring and Evaluation will coordinate with State Committea to
develop concrete action plans to increase productivity, competitiveness and employment generation in
all sectors.
Govenmnent PrgM= and Polid-e
19.   To implement the strategies desaibed in the National iing nd Pductivty Program and
in the National Agreement for Increased Ouality and Productivity as described above, the Federal
Govenment has undertaken several policy actions directed at (i) increasing the skills and productivity
of workers and firms; and Cii) retrAining displaced and unemployed workers. These actions were
supported by the Manpower Trairing Project. The Federal Government now intends to develop these



- 58 -                                 Annex 1
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
actions further through several policy instruments which will be supported by the Labor Market and
Productivity Enhancement Project. These policy instruments and the supporting project activities and
targets are outlined below.
Consolidation and Extension of the CIMO Program
20.   The Multiple Support Service Program to Micro, Small and Medium Size Enterprises (CIMO)
program, operated by the Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS), is directly linked to the
PRONACAP and the ANEPC. Its primary objective is to eliminate inefficiencies in the use of
resources and barriers to productivity growth. The program aims to: (i) modenize management and
organization of production through the provision of technical assistance to enterprises, and improved
information flows; (ii) improve the quality of human resources and induce the adoption of new
technology through the promotion of in-service training, and through improvements in work
conditions and reward systems; and (iii) strengthen the operation and efficiency of support programs
for the private sector through upgrading the skills of managers and administrators.
21.   To achieve these objectives, the program would provide training, process-consulting services,
and access to industrial and technological information to micro, small and medium size enterprises.
A fundamental characteristic of this program is that the role of the Government is strictly one of
coordinator/facilitator, promoting interest in worker training and improved product quality,
organization and management, and disseminating information and facilitating access to the relevant
instructors or services.
22.   In line with the approach set forth in the ANEPC, one of the objectives of the Federal
Government is to increase steadily the share of the participation of the private sector in the operation
and financing of the program. Ultimately, the Government would maintain only an information and
technical assistance role in its support to MSMEs. To this end, cost-sharing arrangements for
services facilitated under the CIMO program will be agreed upon with the private sector according to
the following targets: (i) for training activities, the share of costs financed by the private sector will
gradually increase from 65% in 1993 to 85% in 1997. During these five years, in which 11,250
training courses are planned, enterprises would contribute an average of 75% of training costs; (ii) for
process-consulting services, the share of costs financed by the private sector would increase from
30% to 60% over the same period. On average, enterprises would cover approximately 45% of costs
associated with this service. A total of 3,000 consultancies are planned over the five year period
1993-1997; and (iii) for industrial and technological information services, the private sector would
finance 30% of the costs. It is anticipated that there will be 3,000 enterprise utilizations of this
service over the five year period 1993-1997.
23.   The Government would also support actions aimed at improving the quality and relevance of
training and consulting services supplied to enterprises through the improvement of consultants' skills.
The consultants will bear 30% of these training costs, the program 70%. Additionally there will be a
net increase of 70 promoters in the Regional Productivity Support Units (Unidad Promotora de
Compeddvidad, UPCs) in 1993, recruited through a stricter selection process, rising to 170 by 1997.
24.   The Federal Government intends to assimilate the UPCs into business organizations of each
region over the medium term, in coordination with each local executive committee of the UPCs.
Several actions will facilitate this assimilation process. On the technical side, the UPCs will be
transformed into Multiple Service Support Units (Unidades de Sercidos Integrados, USI), which is a



-59-                                   Annex I
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
new concept to provide services to enterprises. On the legal side, the local executive committees of
the UPCs will assume a new legal status allowing them to receive funds from other sources. It is
expected that by the end of 1997, at least 20% of the staff will be financed by the private sector.
25.   According to the decreasing government share of the costs proposed in the cost-sharing
structure for 1993-1997, the CIMO program will ensure the institutionalization of the services beyond
the end of the program. This process will be assisted through: (i) the increasing understanding by
enterprises of the knowledge they need and how to gain access to it; (ii) the decreasing amount of
government support to promote training, that will decline to only 15% at the end of the program,
permitting a natural transition; (iii) growth in the supply of local consulting services as the econmy
developes; and (iv) the information service will be provided primarily through local technical
resources by 1996, thereby reducing its cost. All of these capacities will be assimilated by business
organizations and will be institutionalized through appropriate legal schemes.
26.   Overall, the contribution of the private sector is estimated to grow from US$5.0 million (56
percent of total costs) in 1993 to about US$12.0 million (76 percent of total costs) in 1997. The
Government contribution is estimated to decline slightly from US$ 3.9 million in 1993 to about USS
3.8 million in 1997, however this represents a major decline in the share of the costs covered by
Government from 44 percent to 24 percent over this period.
27.   To promote a more integrated private-sector development, the Government would seek
improved coordination between the CIMO program and other institutions providing support to micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises. To this end, work is underway to reach an umbrella agreement
of collaboration between STPS, the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI),
and Nacional FYnanciera (NAFIN) by March 31, 1993.
28.   With regard to SECOFI, the agreement seeks to ensure the participation of CIMO
representatives in the Joint Commission for the Modernization of the Micro, Small and Medium Size
Industry (Comisi6n Mixta part, la Modernizaci6n de la Industria Micro, Pequefla y Medana). The
objectives are to: (i) identify potential business groups to participate in the CIMO program; and (ii)
to facilitate the access of enterprises receiving CIMO support to SECOFI's single window mechanism
established to speed up the various administrative requirements for the operation of micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises.
29.   With regard to NAFIN, the agreement seeks to enable the CIMO program to take advantage
of NAFIN's Program for Managerial Development (Programa de Desarrollo Empresarial). This
program was designed to provide basic training to managers of micro, small and medium-sized firms.
In addition, NAFIN will help enterprises served by CIMO gain access to the different types of
financing it provides, as well as to specialized technical assistance. NAFIN will also help identify
potential enterprises that can be supported through CIMO.
30.   The Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT) would support CIMO in the
following areas: access to information on business opportunities, characteristics and requirements for
exports, technical assistance and financing for suppliers of export enterprises, direct exporters and
enterprises with export potential. Modalities already exist for this support and the pace of
implementation will be accelerated in 1993.



- 60 -                                Annex 1
LABOR SECTOR
POLICY STATEMENT
&U_1af o I_  Maket Adjumet MWeab_
31.   To facilitate labor market adjustment, increase labor mobility and thus increase efficiency in
the use and allocation of labor resources, the Government has improved the coverage, quality and
efficiency of placement services and increased the flow of information on local and regional labor
markets through enhanced employee incentives linked to productivity, stronger coordination with the
private sector, improved telecommunications links and a rationalization of the information system.
32.   The Government will strengthen the National Employment Service and promote the creation
of a framework for a closer and more effective coordination between public and private placement
agencies.
33.   The general legal foundation for the operation of private employment services is given by
Section XXV of Article 123 of the Mexican Constitution, which stipulates that employment services
may be offered by public or private organizations, but must be done so free of charge to the job
seeker. The Federal Labor Law, Articles 538, 539 and 539 A, B, C, D, and F reiterates the
complementary character of placement services, and the legality of its provision by either public or
private agencies.
34.   Although the legal framework allows the existence of private placement agencies, their
operation was hampered in the past by the Mexican Government's subscription to Part I of
Agreement No. 96 of the International Labor Organization, which ratified the monopoly power of the
State Employment Agency. However, as of March 1, 1991, Mexico has rescinded its signing of Part
11, and subscribed to Part Im of Agreement No. 96 of the ILO, which ratifies the legal guarantees of
the Mexican regulations that allow the operation of private agencies. Thus, there are no longer any
legal obstacles to the operation of private placement agencies.
35.   In order to strengthen the operation of the National Employment Service (SNE) and its
network of State Employment Services (SEEs), the Government will seek the increasing financial
participation of the State Governments in the operation of the SEEs. The State Governments will
integrate federal staff working in the SEEs into their State social security system over the period
1993-1996. The targets are that at least 25% of the federal staff will be so incorporated each year
such that all are covered by the end of 1996. This participation is ensured through annual agreements
signed between the Federal and State Governments within the context of the Convenmos de DesarroUo
Social. Compliance by the states will be monitored closely and compliance will be a requirement for
continued federal financing.
36.   In line with its goals of upgrading the skills of the labor force and widening the distribution of
training opportunities within the population, the Government will improve the cost-effectiveness of the
retraining program for unemployed and displaced workers (PROBECAT) through improved targeting.
From December 1992, more rigorous selection criteria will be applied to trainees. Workers should
have significant prior work experience, be between 18 and 55 years of age and have completed either
full primary or at least some secondary education. Workers between the age of 18 and 25 years
without significant work experience could qualify for in-plant training only. In order to provide more
time for a fuller evaluation of PROBECAT, the number of trainees will be frozen at the 1992 level of
55,000. A full evaluation will be completed by March 31, 1995, and only the cost-effecdve elements
of training will be continued, or where justified, expanded. As part of its policy for establishing links
with the private sector, the Federal Government will increase the participation of private enterprises



-61 -                                  An    I
LABOR SECrOR
POLICY STATEMENT
in the operation and financing of these training activities through outreach and dissemination. Many
enterprises are already participating and financing the costs of materials and trainers from their own
resources. About 75 percent of the trainees have even been able to find employment with the
enterprise where the training has taken place.
37.   The Government intends to fully investigate the reasons for the apparent low benefits for
female trainees under PROBECAT. The problems may be less to do with the training per se, but
rather other rigidities or barriers in the labor market for women. This issue will be fully reviewed
and appropriate corrective actions taken. In order to assist labor mobility anticipated as a result of
the full implementation of NAFTA, a pilot training program for under-qualified rural migrants will be
established. The pilot will be subject to a full review also. The World Bank will be invited to
discuss the outcome of these reviews and to make recommendations on the actions to be taken.
lngroed Womution. Polig and bInsitutional Slrenthaftn
38.   As evidenced in the ANEPC, the Federal (Government recognizes that the modernization of
the country requires an effort to strengthen and ;estructure the operation of the Public Administration;
in regard to the modernization of the labor market, this implies a strengthening, in particular, of the
technical areas of STPS. At the same time, the Federal Government also acknowledges that in the
context of Mexico's reform process, the availability of timely and accurate information on the labor
market. is a pressing need. To address this growing demand for information and support its objective
of strengthening the Administration, the Government has begun the process of rationalizing labor
market information systems, improving the coordination of the many agencies involved (eg. STPS,
SEEs and UPCs), and developing the skills of the staff working in these organizations through
appropriate training. Much remains to be done in all these areas to provide a modern, effective and
accessible labor market information system and to improve policy formulation for the sector, however
the Government is committed to modernizing and strengthening its labor market information system
and policy formulation. Additional computer equipment and an enhanced training program for staff
in the STPS, UPCs and the SEEs will commence in 1993. A program of high priority labor market
surveys and studies has been developed for the period 1993-97 covering such areas as employment,
wages, productivity, migration trends and incentives, and an evaluation of micro-enterprises. All
these studies and surveys are designed to provide policy-relevant information for policy makers in the
sector and will be completed according to a specified schedule rer the period 1993-97. The World
Bank will be invited to discuss the results of these studies and surveys and to make recommendations
on the actions to be taken. The training and computer equipment will both facilitate the gathering and
analysis of data and equip the staff to implement labor policies and *erve the labor market more
effectively.
Sincerely yours,
ustavo Ponce Mel6ndez                         Agustin E. lb  a
ordinador General de Politicas              Director Gen     E pp
studios y Estadfsticas del Trabajo           Secretarfa del   ajo  Pr i  n ocial
(on behalf of Undersecretary 'B")              (on behalf of Oade ect    U U)



- 62 -                               Annex 2
LABOR MARKET STATISTICS
TABLE 1
DISIBUTION OF TOTAL POPULATION 10 YEARS AND OVER
BY AGE GROUP AND EDUCATION LEVEL
1979-1990
TOTAL       No     Prim    Prim    Low.   High    Voc.    Con
Educ   Incom   Comp    Sec        Sec    Educ   Univ
1-S yrs   6 yrs   7-9 y   10-12   10-12    13+
yrs     yrs     yrs 
.=_ __ __                                 Ir
1970
Total 10 +    32334732    29.1    44.3    15.3        6.1     1.5      1.6     1.7
10-19 yrs     11450565    18.7    53.7    15.5       9.2      1.6     0.8     0.2
20-29 yrs      7292759    24.8    39.5    19.7       6.5      2.4     3.2      3.6
30-39 yrs      5107910    31.9    42.9    15.0       4.2      1.1      1.9     2.6
40>  yrs        8483498    45.0    36.7    11.3       2.8     0.9      1.2     1.7
1980
Total 10+     47215010    12.2    33.9    17.8        12      3.4      3.5     4.5
10-19 yrs     16750890      5.4    41.7    16.9       19      4.7     2.0      1.1
20-29 yrs      10958919     8.7    24.3    22.3       12      5.0      6.4    10.0
30-39 yrs      7244993    14.0    32.3    18.5         7      1.8     4.8      6.6
40>  yrs       12260208    23.5    32.7    13.9        4      1.0      2.3     2.9
1990
Total 10+     59999968    11.7    28.6    19.2    18.0        7.3     3.9      7.4
10-19 yrs     20053495      3.6    35.3    19.2    28.2       7.8     2.6     0.8
20-29 yrs      14233675     6.4    15.9    19.5    21.4    12.4       6.8    14.7
30-39 yrs      9966735    10.8    25.4    22.6    12.4        6.7     4.7    13.1
40>  yrs       15746063    27.4    33.7    16.8       5.6     2.5      2.2     5.8
Note:        Category "non/specified" not included.
Source:      1970-1980: Anuario Estadtsdco de los Estados Unidos Meicanos, 1988-1989, p.
257, INEGI; 1990: Xl General Population Census, 1990, pp. 114-195, INEGI



- 63 -                                Annex 2
LABOR MARKET STATISTICS
TABLE 2
LABOR PRODUCTITY AND TOTAL FACTOR PRODUCTIVITY BY SECTOR
(MANUFACTURING) (1984=100)
Output per Worker             1986         1987         1988        1989   l
Food, Beverages & Tobacco                97.2         92.7        91.3        102.1
Textile, Apparel & Leather               93.3         92.6         87.9        92.1
Wood & Wood Products                     88.5        102.9        75.8         92.6
Paper & Printing                        116.2        109.0        110.2       115.2
Chemicals & Plastics                     95.1         87.4         84.4        97.6
Non-ferrous Metals                      102.9        109.2        102.6       111.5
Iron & Steel                            102.4        116.3        102.3       115.3
Metal Products, Equipment &             101.7        108.1        107.9       117.1
Machinery
Total Manufacturing Industry             98.9         99.7         96.0       106.1
Total Factor Productivity
Food, Beverages & Tobacco               108.4        109.6        114.1       137.6
Textile, Apparel & Leather              103.7        105.3        103.0       111.5
Wood & Wood Products                     96.1        117.2         93.6       117.1
Paper & Printing                        125.7        122.2        124.6       138.5
Chemicals & Plastics                    100.8         98.8         99.6       119.5
Non-Ferrous Metals                      110.5        129.1        128.2       144.4
Iron & Steel                            108.6        125.5        118.3       136.4
Metal Products, Equipment&              110.3        117.8        124.6       141.3
Machinery
Total Manufacturing Industry            107.2        112.2        113.5       131.2
Source: Hernindez Laos (1992) (See Annex 9).



- 64 -
LABOR MARKET STATISTICS
TABLE 3
GROWTH IN TOTAL FACTOR PRODUCTIVITY BY FIRM SIZE
(MANUFACTURING) (1984=100)
1986     1987      1988      1989
Food, Beverages & Tobacco
Small                             97.0    127.8    147.2      145.7
Medium                           111.1    119.7      98.6     134.1
Large                             99.5     91.9    106.4      135.0
Giant                            111.8    108.3    115.4      136.7
Textile, Apparel & Leather
Small                            108.2     96.0      69.5      69.3
Medium                           117.7    108.2      99.0     114.5
Large                             82.0     81.7      85.1      88.8
Giant                            107.8    115.0    113.2      123.6
Wood & Wood Products
Small                             84.6     75.3      62.6      95.9
Medium                           104.0    112.9      78.9      87.0
Large                             83.8    114.6      94.0     139.5
Giant                            109.5    151.4    135.0      155.3
Pae & Printing
Prm Pi i                         114.8    111.4      96.9     122.2
Medium                           100.2    107.5    112.5      123.0
Large                            139.7    138.4    134.0      160.8
Giant                            123.8    118.3    120.4      132.5
Chemicals & Plastics
Small                            111.9    118.2      83.7     132.0
Medium                            92.0     83.4      89.3      98.6
Large                            100.3    107.0    110.4      105.7
Giant                            103.0     98.5      99.0     127.0
Non-Ferrous Metals
Small                            149.0    174.4      88.9      95.3
Medium                            92.6     83.8      79.9     145.6
Large                            114.7    116.9    136.5      132.7
Giant                            111.6    134.1    131.0      149.0
Iron & Steel
Small                              8.0      4.8      11.1      22.6
Medium                           110.9     95.5    121.6      165.3
Large                            105.6    106.4    119.3      113.2
Giant                            115.6    136.3    122.9      146.1
Metal Products, Equipment &
Machinery
Small                             77.7     74.3      66.3      68.6
Medium                           109.6    103.9    122.0      109.0
Large                            117.4    109.2    102.6      134.9
Giant                            113.7    123.9    132.9      151.5
TOTAL MANUFACTURING
Small                             88.7     98.5      91.6     105.7
Medium                           104.1    103.5    101.7      118.8
Large                            104.2    104.4    108.6      119.2
Giant                            110.2    117.1    118.4      138.7
Source: Hernindez Laos (1992) (see Annex 9).



-65 -                                   Annex
LABOR MARKET STATISTICS
Manufacturing Productivity, 1 9 8 2 -9 0
Output per hour
145
1 40
1 35
0130
1 25
4C 1 20
'o 115
110
105
100
95
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
U. S.    '- Canada --*- Japan
-E- U.K         Me- Mxico



TABLE 4
NUMBER OF FIRMS AND EMPLfOYME
BY SECTOR AND FIRM SIZE (%)
19861989
TOTA.L**                     MANUFACTURING                           REIAIL                            SERVICE
NUMBER OF         PERSONS         NUMBER OF         PERSONS         NUMBER OF          PERSONS         NUMBER OF         PERSONS
FIRMS         EMPLOYED            FIRMS         EMPLOYED            FltMS          EMPLOYED            FIRMS         EMPLOYED
1916    19S9    1986    1m        1916    1989    1916    19        1916    1919    1916    1919    1916    199    1916    199
2orle      72.1    70.1    20.3    15.7       43.9    48.6      4.1     4.4     79.4    31.6    38.1   42.4       67.5    61.3    23.4    11.7
3 to S    S1.1    17.2    13.3   10.0       21.3    26.5      5.7    5.9      14.7    13.0    17.8   17.6       22.3    21.0    20.0   10.2
6 to 10    4.3      5.7     6.3    6.9        7.5     9.6      3.1     4.4      3.0     3.1      7.3     1.7      5.3      7.9     9.5     8.0
llto20      2.2      3.4     6.3     3.0      4.9      5.9      4.0    5.3       1.5     1.3      7.8    7.3       2.3     5.0      3.2    9.3
21 to 50    1.5      2.1      9.5   10.1       4.9     4.7      3.7    9.2       0.9     0.7      9.7    3.0       1.4      3.0    10.6   12.6
51 to 100    0.6      0.7     7.7    1.5        2.4     2.1      9.3    9.0       0.2     0.2      5.8     5.1      0.4      1.0     7.4    9.5
101 to2SO     0.4      0.5    10.9   11.2        1.9     1.5    16.3   14.6        0.1     0.1      6.0    5.5       0.2     0.6      3.2    11.4
251 toS00     0.1      0.1     3.3    8.4        0.3     0.6    14.3    13.6       0.0     0.0      4.0    2.9       0.1      0.2     5.1    7.7
501 or more    0.1      0.1    17.0   20.3        0.5      0.5    34.1    33.7      0.0      0.0      2.2    2.4       0.0     0.1      7.7    19.0
*  Totd of the dime sectors dm appear in the table.
Sore: SPS' result using R*Re9ladoa Opomos NaciJales 19m   and 'EpadFromuidenro Urbo  197, INEOI.
r



- 67 -                                A=  2
LABOR MARKET STATISTICS
TABLE 5
MALE UNEMPlOYMET RATES
BY AGE LEVEL AND LEVEL OF EDUCATION (%)
Active job seekers    All job seekers     Job seekers and idle
workers
Age
12-15                                4.2                   5.3                 17.7
16-20                                8.4                  9.9                  15.2
21-25                                5.3                   5.9                  7.9
26-30                                3.0                   3.1                  4.5
31-40                                1.2                   1.5                  2.4
41-50                                1.7                   2.0                  4.0
51-60                                1.9                   2.1                  4.3
61-70                                2.4                   3.0                  3.0
Education
No educ.                             2.1                   2.3                  6.9
1-5 yrs                              2.1                   2.3                  5.2
6 yrs                                2.5                   2.8                  5.9
7-8 yrs                              4.8                   5.7                  8.9
9  yrs                               4.7                   5.3                  8.1
10-12 yrs                            4.1                   4.8                  6.9
13 + yrs                             3.4                  4.0                   4.8
TOTAL                          3.4                     -                  6.3
Source: Results from 1988 National Employment Survey, INEGI



-68 -                               Annex 3.1
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
EVALUAIION OF THE fCO LBR R33tAMG PROGRAM:
SARY OF R13SULTS
In the early 1980s, Mexico entered a period of economic crisis when rising world interest
rates, falling oil prices and a refusal by external creditors to roll over Mexico's short-term debt put an
end to its expansionary policies. Against this background, the Government of Mexico established a
retraining program in 1984 for unemployed and displaced workers (Programa de Becas de
Capacitacion para Trabajadores, or PROBECAT). Its objective was to dampen the social costs of
major economic restructuring and rising unemployment during this period of macroeconomic turmoil.
In 1987, the PROBECAT program was incorporated into the Bank-supported Manpower Training
Project, and its scope and coverage expanded. Since that time, PROBECAT has provided short-term
vocational training to over 250,000 unemployed people-approximately 50,000 trainees per year.
Although originally viewed as a transitional measure, the PROBECAT program is currently
being considered for continuation over a longer period of time. Several reasons exist for this. The
most important is concern about the impact of the proposed North America Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) on migration flows, especially from rural areas, and on unemployment. Second, while the
adjustment process to date has taken place with relatively little impact on observed unemployment
rates, sizeable labor reallocations between expanding and contracting sectors still remain with further
liberalization and privatization of the Mexican economy. The third reason is that the PROBECAT
program is the only unemployment scheme currently in place in Mexico. In making decisions about
the future of the PROBECAT program, policymakers will need information about the impact of
retraining on target populations and the cost-effectiveness of the program.
This annex summarizes the main findings of an evaluation of the PROBECAT program.Y'
The objective of said evaluation was to determine the impact of participation in the PROBECAT
program on the post-training employment and incomes of trainees. We sought to address four
questions: (i) what is the impact of training on post-training employment of trainees; (ii) does
training increase the speed with which they move from unemployment to employment?; (iii)
conditional on their finding employment, what effect does training have on monthly earnings, hours
worked, and hourly wages of trainees?; and (iv) do the monetary benefits from program participation
outweigh the costs of providing retraining?
In answering these four questions, we compared the post-training labor market experiences of
trainees with those of a control group-a matched sample of unemployed individuals who were eligible
for, but did not participate in, the PROBECAT program. Since individuals are not selected randomly
to join the training program, the evaluation methodology must account for any systematic differences
in the attributes of trainees and the control group. Otherwise, group differences are likely to lead to
biased estimates of program effects, because of sample selectivity, or because trainees are
overrepresented in the data relative to their true weight in the unemployed population. Both kinds of
methodological problems were addressed in our evaluation. Our evaluation also sought to estimate
program effects for specific groups of trainees-by sex, age, schooling completed, prior work
j1 For the detailed evaluation see A. Revenga, M. Riboud and H. Tan, 'Mexico Labor Retraining
Program: An Evaluation of its Impact on Employment and Wages," World Bank Report No. 10972-
ME, revised September 1, 1992.



-69 -                               Annex 3.1
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
experience, and degree of attachment to the labor force-to provide policymakers with guidelines on
specific groups of unemployed individuals who should be targeted for retraining.
The evaluation was conducted using retrospective data on post-training experiences of the
1990 cohort of PROBECAT trainees, collected by the STPS in February 1992. For a control group,
we developed a matched sample of unemployed individuals from the 1990-91 quarterly urban labor
force surveys (ENEU). The two datasets permit an evaluation of the PROBECAT program that
substantially improves upon previous evaluation efforts. The earlier studies were constrained by lack
of an appropriate comparison group (outcomes were compared for training completers and those who
dropped out of training), and by relatively crude wage data (wage information was bracketed, and
reported in reference to the minimum wage). Both of these limitations have been largely overcome in
our evaluation.
Our evaluation of the PROBECAT program yields several main finding:
(a) On average, the duration of job search is shorter for trainees than for controls. Post-training
job search for male PROBECAT trainees averages 4 months, as compared to an average job search
spell of 6.5 months for the control group. Thus, participation in PROBECAT reduces the mean
duration of search time by 2.5 months. For the average male trainee, this shorter search period
nearly compensates for the length of the training period: total time spent out of a job for the average
trainee (equal to time spent in training plus post-training search time) is only 12 days longer than for
the average control. Moreover, for certain groups (those with work experience and those over 25
years of age), the shorter search spell more than compensates for the time spent in training. Total
time spent out of a job for those two groups of male trainees is shorter than for controls (see Table
1). In contrast, trainees without work experience suffer longer spells of joblessness than do controls.
For women, the picture is fairly similar. Compared to the control group, female trainees with work
experience and those over 25 years of age spend less without a job: total time to first job (including
time spent in training) for these groups of trainees is approximately 1 month shorter than for the
controls.
(b) Male trainees are more Ikely to be employed three and six months after training than the
controls. However, this effect does not persist: at twelve months, the probability of employment is
the same for trainees and controls. Taken together with (a), the implication is that for certain groups
of trainees (those with work experience and/or those over 25 years of age), PROBECAT training
shortens the time to first job, and thus increases the amount of time trainees spend in employment in
the first year after training.
(c) Female trainees with work expeuience are more hlkly to be employed three, six, and twelve
months after program completion as compared to the controls. However, women without prior
work experience are less likely to be employed at comparable intervals after completing training.
(d) Male trainees are more likey to find employment in large ru than comparable controls.
Large firms are Inown to pay higher salaries, and provide more stable employment, more training
and more promotion opportunities. For females, no similar effect is found. This issue will be fully
investigated to establish whether there are labor market rigidities or other barriers to female
employment. This will form part of the full review of PROBECAT to be completed by March 31,
1995.



-70 -                               Annex 3.1
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
(e) Trining naes the monthly earnings of male trainees, but this effect varies systematically
by levd of schooing attainment. Large and statistically significant effects (increases of 28 % to 37 %
in monthly earnings following tratiing) are found for males with 6 to 12 years of schooling. To a
large extnt, this earnings effect among males can be attributed to increased weeldy hours worked
rather than as a result of a higher wage per hour, possibly because they are more likely than the
control group to find employment in large firms where monthly earnings and work hours are higher.
For females, training does not appear to raise their monthly earnings. While there is some evidence
of positive effects on hours worked, this does not translate into higher monthly earnings for them.
(f) The monetary baenits of trining outweigh the costs of the PROBECAT program for cetain
groups of trainees. Considering only the employment effects, the benefits associated with finding a
job more quickly compensate the costs of training for males over age 25 and for females with prior
work experience. When earnings effects are incorporated into the calculations, benefits outweigh
costs within a year for all males, but not for females. The analysis will include correlations between
the wage effect and the type and duration of training provided.
Policy Inlications
This evaluation suggests that the unemployed constitute a heterogenous group and that
eligibility criteria for program participation are important determinants of the cost-effectiveness of the
program. In the specific case of Mexico, the analysis suggests that the selection criteria should be
modified to target those demographic groups likely to benefit most from the program, namely
unemployed workers with prior work experience, slightly older workers (aged over 25), and those
with 6 to 12 years of schooling. For certain groups - the very young, new entrants into the labor
force, and those with low levels of schooling attainment - it may be more important to provide other
kinds of training, introduce apprenticeship programs to give new entrants some work experience, or
facilitate return to school. These conclusions have been used to redefine trainee selection criteria for
the new retraining program under the proposed project. To further strengthen the cost-effectiveness
of the PROBECAT program, Bank disbursements above US$ 25 million would be conditional upon
the outcome of the full evaluation of PROBECAT to be completed by March 31, 1995 (see Annex 5
and pam. 337).
More broadly, our study demonstrates that the results can be very sensitive to the way in
which training effects are measured. We identified two principal sources of bias that many manpower
training evaluations are likely to encounter: biases arising from (a) sample selectivity and (b) from
non-representativeness of the tratment group. Addressing these biases is essential in any program
impact evaluation. The Terms of Reference (Annex 5) for the program evaluations to be carried out
under the proposed project contain specific data and methodology requirements to address these
issues.
Our results strongly sugest that a wide variety of potential program impacts be investigated.
Training programs may have an impact on some labor market outcomes but not others. Focusing on
one outcome versus others may make the difference between continuation or trmination of the
program. A broad approach is also potentially more revealing about the direct and indirect ways in
which training programs affect target populations. These considerations have also been incorporated
into the Terms of Reference for the program evaluation (see Annex 5).
Finally, it is worth noting that this evaluation still has some limitations. One, our control
sample is quite small. Two, our duration data for controls had to be imputed by reconstructing



- 71 -                                Annex 3.1
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
complot spells from observations on the same individuals in successive quarters. Three, some
important dimensions of PROBECAT -training duration, type of training, mix of theory and practice,
different training provides- were not studied. Future evaluations will attempt to address these
shortcomings. In particular, they will investigate the differential impacts of alternative training
modalities, and evaluate their relative cost-effectiveness.



TAKJ I
EVALUAnOt OF LAS OT!ADUN: PROGRAM
SUIMARY OF rOGRAM  IECTS
... . ..                                                                                                                     astofksb  hn..1moJo    obWe 5tW~  .~MOiyW
r ~~~~~~~~~                                                                          Thima.,un ,F;;0{i ,<   :V +X  Lt~LatW   ;XS.;
AJI                                    4.0                 6.5                 6.9                  0.4                 27-               642                490
Wl  riar Wk lap.                       3.5                 6.5                 6.4         40.1                        3S                 665         507
No FgwU  a                             7.2                 5.9                 10.1                 4.2                .2                 541                413
4  <(-25                               4.7                 6.1                 7.6                  1.5                3r                 639                421
4e> 25                                 3.2                 6.9                 6.1                  4.0.               .2?                719                m77
s           vzhuSSIOCIbI                           3.9                6.1                  6.3                  0.7             .28 to 37'            6324f
A11                                    5.9                 7.1                 8.3                   1.0               .02                444                435
W PtAer WkK.                         5.0                9.0                  7.9                 -1.1                .11                467                457
8.2                5.1                 11.1                  S.3                .02                402               394
No Pio x K
A4  <-25                               6.0                 7.0                 3.9                  1.9                .16                475                404
Aue) 25                                5.7                 9.4                 8.6                  -.0S                .04               454                436
Nulsdai  ncr                           7 5.9               7.3                  3.1                  1.0            _.3to.10              435                422
* Sipi_a~t 10S level
- SipH_ mie5% Ica
Age > 25    of                                                  96 period-72.9 mn9 
bg_ede qaia emls, a d_nmy for suf.arpyloynt duatoof                mutprio_pr to t0n d, a dumm  for pdior workepuec, sad i_irct.betee the
'Pvsetil asdmudyage  timyem frm-rgreln
tahiag Amum  and scdhoolin etatta, ansd betee th trligdqan  and ag (_e main text and table 10 and 11 Ifr detiled descipton of reit). 5 i
* dom w&                                 3_9                 6.         b.                            0.7       b n    lo  wr62



-73 -                               Annex-3.1
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
TABLE 2
NET BENEFITS BY TYPE OF TRAINEE
Costs of Traiing        Baeft:J In c   - in Moothly Wage
Direct Trg  ot    erbCs        Over 3 monfthsOe 12 monitbs
(04      000s)
_______________   (I)      (2)             ~~~~~            ~~~~~(3)  :(4)i
males
All                   350.4            196.0            456.0          1,824.0
With Prior Wk Exp.     350.4          -66.5 2           474.0          1,896.0
No Prior Wk Exp        350.4 -1,734.6                   384.0          1,536.0
Age <=25              350.4            631.5            564.0          2,256.0
Age > 25               350.4          -575.22           426.0          1,704.0
Meeting Education
Selection Criteria'    350.4           322.0            516.0          2,064.0
FeMales
All                    350.4           435.0             0               0
With Prior Wk Exp.     350.4          -513.72             0              0
No Prior Wk Exp       350.4           2,088.2            0               0
Age <=25              350.4            767.6             0               0
Age > 25               350.4          -348.82            0               0
Meeting Education
Selection Criterial    350.4           422.0            560              0
Equals the additional time trainees take to find a job (because of time in training) times the
opportunity cost of that time (which equals the wage of the controls - i.e. the wage the
trainees would have received without the training).
2     Trainees with work experience and those aged 25 andoover find a job sooner than controls
even when you take into account the training period. This estimate equals the extra time
worked by trainees relative to controls * trainee wage.
oporuit  os o ha im  (hcheuasth wg o hecotol   ie.te  ae h



- 74 -                               Annex 3.2
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
MEXICO'S SYSTEMM FOR ML%E SUPPORT, AND CIMO'S ROLE IN ITV
1.    Mexico has a complex system for technical and financial support to its about 1.5 million small
and medium-sized enterprises. Conceptually, this system of support is similar to MSME support
systems in other countries, but in practice, its effectiveness has been constrained by a scarcity of
resources and lack of operative coordination. These constraints have affected in particular
microenterprises of less than 15 persons.
2.    During the 1980s successive Governments, aware of the potential of MSMEs as major
creators of employment, equity, and wealth, have taken important new initiatives to reinforce the
MSME support system, especially to make it more responsive to the needs of microenterprises, and
also have acted to streamline administrative procedures to facilitate the creation and growth of small
enterprises. Among these initiatives are the Federal Law for the Development of the Microindustry,
the relevant parts of the National Program for Training and Productivity, 1991-94, the National
Program for the Modernization and Development of the Micro, Small and Medium Sized Industry,
1991-94, as well as the creation in 1987 of the CIMO program itself. As a result of these and earlier
initiatives, a division in principle of responsibilities for MSME support now exists. Table 1 shows
the main fields of action and the agents primarily responsible for each.
3.    In spite of these efforts, MSME support in Mexico is still not effective for various reasons,
including:
(a)   insufficient numbers of suitably trained staff in the agencies;
(b)    scarcity of information materials and resources, including lack of a system for
information, both regarding technical/management/ market information, and
concerning labor market conditions;
(c)   remaining unclear division of responsibilities for implementation of the programs,
which causes lack of coordination and overlap of activities particularly at the
operational level, and lack of implementation of some of the measures mandated by
the Federal Law;
(d)    difficulties in effectively reaching out to enterprises at the firm level, especially as
regards micro and small firms;
(e)   in many agencies, a supply-oriented and reactive approach, instead of offering
services guided by enterprises' needs and demands;
1/ This Annex is based on a study done for STPS as part of preparation for the proposed project and
documented in a report entitled "Evaluaci6n de los Mecanismos de Apoyo a la Micro, Pequefia y
Mediana Empresa en M6xico", April 1992, by Consultant Antonio Maza Pereda, and on other
feedback from enterprises obtained by CIMO, including that documented in the report "Tendencias de
Modernizaci6n en la Empresa Grande y Modalidades de Capacitaci6n en la Micro, Pequefia y
Mediana Empresa", 1992 (see Annex 9).



-75 -Annex 3.2
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
(f)   too high a level of specialization in the technical assistance offered, to the detriment of
more basic needs of enterprises;
(g)   lack of systematic efforts to consolidate or combine demands for assistance from
different firms in order to achieve economies of scale; and
(h)    an absence of actions to obtain multiplier effects which could partly compensate for
the scarcity of resources, including dissemination of relevant information. The only
exceptions are NAFIN's effort to promote the creation of credit unions among
MSMEs, and CIMO's proposed information dissemination program and its program
for upgrading the supply of process consultants and trainers at the local level.
4.    In spite of the continued existence of these problems, substantial efforts have been made in
two areas: MSME finance, through NAFIN and 'Asesorfa Dinamica a la Micro EmpresaH ADMIC,
and training, mainly through CIMO (and NAFIN, through its incipient program of mass distribution
of management training materials for MSMEs); tens of thousands of firms have benefitted from
assistance in these two respects. Nevertheless, this is only a small fraction of the large number of
MSMEs; some needs such as systematic industrial and labor market information are hardly touched;
and there are inevitable biases which favor support to the larger or technically more advanced
enterprises to the detriment of the smallest and least technified. Overall, the shortcomings listed
above tend to have particularly serious consequences for the very small enterprises, which are most in
need of assistance and which require a very direct, individualized, and practical type of support.
5.    The results of a detailed survey of 115 enterprises participating in the CIMO program clearly
demonstrates that the scarcity of MSME assistance affects the smallest enterprises most severely. For
instance, while the medium-sized enterprises surveyed had all begun to develop human resource
uevelopment policies and programs to some extent, 90% of small enterprises with over 15 workers
had no structured training program before participating in CIMO; for microenterprises this number
was close to 100%.
6.    The fundamental problem is a lack of communication, in both directions: few of the support
agencies have the policy or the means to listen to firm owners and managers. Among all of the
agencies mentioned, only the ADMIC, essentially a financing agency for microenterprises, and
CIMO have the resources and mandate to visit enterprises to seek out their needs; and conversely,
there is an acute scarcity of information materials and systems adapted to the needs of small
enterprises. Under the project, an increased number of MSME promoters will be trained to provide a
broader range of services to MSMEs, including training, organizational strengthening and business
orientation. The project fully supports the decentralization of CIMO activities to UPCs, which will
be closer and more attentive to the needs of MSMEs.



-76 -                                Annex 3.2
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
TABLE 1
MEXICO'S SYSTEM FOR MSME SUPPORT
Aspect of support           Instruments/Actions           Responsible Agency
Organize Enterprise         Joint buying and marketing    SECOFI
associations                 NAFIN
Technology Transfer          National Service for         LANFI 1/, SEP, CONACYT,
Technological Consultation   Universities
Total Quality                Promote concept of Total     General Directorate of
Quality                      Standards
Management training         Insavice training and support   STPS and
committees                   for training                 NAFIN
Credit                       Create credit unions, factoring   NAFIN
-______________________ ^associations, quick credit etc
Organization of enterprises for   NAFIN and
| export                       BANCOMEXT 21
Investment promotion         List of projects, directory of    State Governments and
investors                    enterprise organizations
Investment programs; MSME    PRONASOL 3/
participation in procurement 
Deregulation, administrative    Customs                   SHCP and SECOGEF4I
simplification
One-stop approval of MSMEs   SHCP and SECOGEF4/
in States
Information                  Information System on        SECOFI
MSMEs and on Support for
MSMEs
v LANFI             National Laboratories for Industrial Support (Laboratorios Nacionales de
Fomento Industrial)
2/ BANCOMEXT        National Bank of International Trade (Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior)
3/ PRONASOL         National Solidarity Program (Programa Nacional de Solidaridad)
4/ SECOGEF          Secretariat of the General Comptroller for the Federation (Secretarfa de la
Contralorfa General de la Federacidn)



-77-                                 Annex 3.3
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
1CIMO PROGRAM AND IT C0OSHARING W1E EN TPISE
Purpose of the Program
1.    The CIMO program, as proposed for inclusion in the Labor Market and Productivity
Enhancement Project, is a program for demand-driven assistance to micro, small, and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs). It is designed specifically to support productivity enhancement activities in
these enterprises, and to catalyze access to other actors in Mexico's system for MSME support, for
instance technology development support agencies and MSME financing institutions such as NAFIN
and the Agency for Technical Assistance to Micro Enterprises (ADMIC). CIMO does not provide
financing for direct productive investment.
Program History
2.    CIMO grew out of the Pilot Inservice Training and Productivity Program supported under the
Manpower Training Project, and implemented during the period 1987-1992. This pilot program was
designed mainly as an effort to increase the awareness of MSME owners and managers of the benefits
of providing inservice training programs for workers, and documenting and disseminating the
outcomes of such programs in terms of increased productivity and profitability, improved product
quality, and strengthened competitive position of participating enterprises. This program was
implemented by means of a number (currently 28) of geographically dispersed professional groups
called UPCs (Training Promotion Units), each composed of 2 to 5 MSME specialists (promoters)
contracted by STPS as fixed-term consultants.
Organization of the Program
3.    The UPCs are all physically based in collaborating enterprise associations (mostly Chambers
of Commerce and Industry) which have formally agreed with STPS, as a condition for the
establishment of each UPC, to provide logistical and in-kind financial assistance (office space,
secretarial help, communications) and to participate in the local Executive Committee which guides
the work of each UPC at the local level. The program is highly decentralized, with only a light
structure for oversight, technical assistance and financial control which is located in STPS's
Directorate of Occupational Analysis (DAO). The program is also highly participative in terms of
substantive work; for instance, all assistance to MSMEs is based on systematic situation and problem
diagnoses carried out by enterprises themselves with the help of promoters.
Financing of the Program
4.    The Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare finances the fixed costs of the promoter corps
(salaries and travel) and the central oversight and support functions in STPS, plus general information
and dissemination costs.
5.    CIMO-assisted improvement programs directly benefitting individual enterprises, such as
worker training, have been financed by the CIMO program on a declining basis. For regular
inservice training, the program started by financing about 60% of the training costs; it currendy
finances an average of 30 to 40% of the expenses for instructors only, with enterprises fully financing
consumable materials and rental of equipment and facilities. This percetage will be further reduced



- 78 -                               Annex 3.3
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
(to about 23 % by the end of 1997) as a function of the time each UPC has been active in a locality
(and presumably, built up its credibility) thereby reducing the need for special incentives to
enterprises to use its services.
6.    The financing of the program has thus been shared from the beginning between STPS and
enterprises, with enterprises paying a grow portion of total costs over time. Figure 1 summarizes the
evolution of cost-sharing of inservice training under the pilot program between 1988 and 1991. This
Annex presents a more detailed study of total program costs and resulting effective financing during
calendar year 1991. The outcomes are as follows:
-     if only direct outlays for all program activities are counted, the total program cost was
US$8.1 million, financed 58% by STPS. 37% by enterprises, and 5% by training providers (through
rebates on facilities rentals, etc.);
-     if the time spent by workers in organized training activities is valued at the average wage of
participants in the PROBECAT retraining program (which is a very low valuation), the total cost rises
to USS10.1 million financed 46% by STPS. 50% by enterprises, and 4% by training providers; and
-     if the calculation is made to include also the time of MSME managers and supervisors spent
with CIMO promoters and in self-assessment and evaluation activities directly tied to the program,
and the cost of this managerial time is valued at a salary equal to that of the promotor (which again is
a low estimate), the total program co  increases to USS12.7 million, financed 37% by STPS. 60% by
enterurises, and 3 % by training providers.
7.    It should be noted that the above is probably an underestimate of the average enterprise
contribution to overall costs also for another reason: 1991 was a year during which the program still
had very substantial and exceptional start-up costs, notably for an intensive training program for all
promoters in the UPCs. The relative importance of these fixed costs is expected to decline over time.
8.    Despite high and increasing private sector participation in the financing of CIMO activities,
and thus favorable prospects for continuing this trend, it is likely that a small percentage of public
financing (between 15 and 20% of total costs) will be required beyond the life of the project. The
number of MSMEs in Mexico is very large, and the process of modernization of their forms of
production will take time. Ultimately, however, the Government would maintain only an information
and technical assistance role.



- 79 -                               Annex 3.3
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
TABLE 1
PILOT CIMO PROGRAM
COST AND COST-SHARING DURING 1991
US$ mill.                 %
Direct Training Costs
STPS                                       2.1                    40
Enterprises                                2.8                    53
Contribution by Providers                  0.4                    7
Total                         5.3                   100
Total Costs
STPS                                       4.7                    58
Enterprises                                3.0                    37
Contribution by Providers                  0.4                    5
Total                         8.1                   100
Total Costs induding the
Cost of Workers' Time
STPS                                       4.7                    46
Enterprises                                5.1                    50
Contribution by Providers                  0.4                    4
Total                        10.1                   100
Total Costs including the
Cost of Management and
Workers' Time
STPS                                       4.7                    37
Enterprises                                7.6                    63
Contribution by Providers                  0.4                    3
Total                        12.7                   100
Notes:
' Total Costs = Direct Traning Costs + Direct Costs of Other Services + Fixed Program Costs
b Costs in 1991 USS with an exchange rate of US$ 1 = MEX$ 3000.
C Cost of time of workers estimated at 680,000 pesos per month (average for PROBECAT
graduates).
d Cost of management time valued at promoters' salaries.



- 80 -                           Annex 3.3
PROBECAT & CIMO PROGRAMS
COST-SHARING ARRANGEMENTS UNDER CIMO PILOT PROGRAM
Figure 2
DIRECT COSTS
OF IN-SERVICE TRAINING
1968        1969         1960         1 91
|l STPS Contrib. 2 narrs Cnrb.|
|Source: CIMO databs



ORGANIZATIONAL CHART FOR STPS
lSccrdlarld t Of
land Social Weatre  _c
for Mhnom  a
Under-Seastartat           Under-Secretariat
thll brMtabr     4t  l                Chi
Admk*bt
of S.CO   r                 Communication
and Human Rle.moure
Ofd E_nv  ft    lAdmimbiUason                                                Un_ _l
_ ot TraIning   1                               _Od <lSkm                 Fodoi Labor
nd  oduqI                        I "am"Psud _
__       _             I            t       anPWIS D                     Dulg
_ ____o t Q_________I___________      I      I   __________________________
.               I 
0-i Praiwdb of                    l
so"              ,1amim               I
I  0
FRae"ufaU
L4ArkrJo
II



- 82 -                                  Annex 4
SECTOR ORGANIZATION
ORGANIZATION AND SRCUEOF THE NATIONAL EMPIdOYNMT SE3RVCE (SNIn
1.    Employment services and retraining are the responsibility of the National Employment Service
(SNE) and its network of State Employment Services (SEEs), set up in coordination with the State
Governments. Employment services offered by the SEEs include registration of job seekers and
vacancies, career counseling, referral, and placement in jobs or training. Programs are financed
mainly under the federal budget, supplemented with contributions from the state budgets. The system
has operated since 1983. As of December 1991, it comprised 99 operating units, organized into 32
SEEs, one for each state and the Federal District, and involved a staff of 851 individuals, divided
evenly between state and federal staff.
TABLE 1: NATIONAL EMPLOYMNT SERVICE (SNE
OPERATING                  STAFF
SEE                UTNIT         F1DERAL           STATE           TOTAL
Aguascalientes                    1              9                10               19
Baja California                   3              13                1               14
Baja California Sur               1              10                7               17
Campeche                          2              11                4               15
Coahuila                          3             21                 1              22
Colina                            1               8                1               9
Chiapas                           2              12                2              24
Chihuahua                         3              12                7               19
Distrito Federal                 16              0               160             160
Durango                           2             20                 1              21
Guanajuato                        6             22                14              36
Cueprero                          2              13               3               16
Hidalgo                           2              13               10              23
Jalisco                           5              15               13              28
Mexico, Estado de                 4             27               56               83
Michoacan                         3              12               2                14
Morelos                           1              16                3              19
Mayarti                           1              11               4                15
Nuevo Leon                        3              13                3               16
Oaxaca                            1              10                8              18
Puebla                            2              12               12              24
Queretaro                         2              7                10              17
Quintana Roo                      2              10               2               12
San Luis Potosi                   3              16               4               20
Sinaloa                           4              19                3              22
Sonora                            5             20                13              33
Tabasco                           3              15              20               35
Tamaulipas                        4              16                2               18
Tlaxcala                          1              9                11              20
Veracruz                          4              17               9               26
Yucatan                           5             24                6               30
Zacateuca                         2              11               5                16
TOTAL                         99             444              407              851
Source: 0. Tangelson, 'Evauaci6n del Servicio Nacional de Empleo' (see Annex 9).



- 83 -                               Annex 4
SECTOR ORGANIZATION
39.   Overall management and coordination responsibilities for the programs rest with the
Directorate for Employment Services of the DGE. At the state level, operational responsibility is
held by the SEE, with support from the central level. The structure and procedures for SEE
management of the programs are established in detail in manuals issued by the STPS. The
relationship between the SNE and the Federal States is contractual: annual agreements determine the
financial contribution of each, as well as the norms and legal framework for the year's activities.
TABLE 2: OPERATING STATISTICS FOR THE SNE
1990                            1991
State       Job Seekers  Vacanes Referrals Job Seekers Vacandes  Referrals
Aguascalientes           1,857      1,726    1,602      2,955      2,501     2,779
Bala California          3,869      8,766    2,315      4,477      5,892     2,766
Baja California Sur      2,452      1,031    1,516       2,598     1,131     1,635
Campeche                 1,904       764    1,287       2,868        842     1,467
Coahuila                 1,792       956       799       2,654     1,779     1,338
Colima                     178       160       224        273        133       227
Chiapas                  4,609      3,729    3,963       5,785     3,947     5,330
Chihuahua                6,586     13,221    7,465       5,477     6,262     5,965
Distrito Federal        45,905     37,050   28,932      36,161    39,374    28,079
Duran$o                    781       507       399       1,054       395       455
Guanajuato               9,308     6,186    4,278        8,226     5,765     3,527
Cueprero                 1,649       439    1,196        1,661       496       990
Hidalgo                  1,428      1,626      734       1,706     1,636       515
Jalisco                  2,988      2,828    2,579       3,378     2,433     2,370
Mexico, Estado de       77,578     88,717   53,606      80,539    104,273    67,605
Michoacan                4,218      3,859    3,463       4,386     3,052     3,669
Morelos                  1,668      2,936    2,868       2,083     2,723     2,592
Mayarit                    648       186       295        721        179       348
Nuevo Leon               9,732     18,337   11,621       9,865    16,570    10,542
Oaxaca                   2,339      1,243    1,245       2,264     1,248     1,439
Puebla                   6,489      5,360    3,826       7,343     4,992     3,989
Queretaro                8,830     11,609   17,111      7,162     14,143    11,260
Quintana Roo             2,099      3,107    3,418      2,371      2,826     3,110
San Luis Potosi          2,633      2,332    2,068      3,725      2,256     2,668
Sinaloa                  2,610     2,587    2,427        1,791     1,837     1,315
Sonora                  11,132     12,131    10,634     13,196    12,253    12,130
Tabasco                  5,260      4,677    3,299       4,832     5,136     3,358
Tamaulipas              10,016      3,129    5,475       7,719     3,979     6,370
Tlaxcala                 5,021      6,443    3,591       5,339     8,186     4,171
Veracruz                 2,007      1,381    1,492       3,181     2,234     2,060
Yucatan                  2,410      1,028    1,591       3,658     1,879     2,888
Zacatecas                1,183       564       7241      1,771       709       979
TOTALS                 241,177   240,615  186,035      240,411    261,065   197,898



ORGANIZATIONAL SIRUCIURE
OF PRQIECr MANAGEMI
UNDER-SECRETARY
General Coordinaton                                          fobr Shalss
of Policie, Studbs                                          Survy  S
a Labor s _oei                                             Pub /
D.E..E.        D.S.N.E.        D.A.O.
SEEs           UPCS             to



- 85 -                              Annex 5.1
PROJECT DESCRIPI1ON
SCTON  RITRIAFOR TRADIIX
LABOR MARKET ADJUSTNMT COMPONENT
Rel_ for DW acend Ueamplozoe Workers
Eligible trainees would satisfy the following criteria:
(a) registered as a job applicant at the local state employment office;
(b) have prior work experience if entering classroom training (minimum 3 months);
(c) be between the ages of 18 and 55 years;
(d) have either complete primary or some secondary education; and
(e) all trainees without prior work experience would be eligible only for the in-plant training
modality.
The rationale for these criteria is based on the results of the evaluation of the retraining program
(classroom modality only) presented in Annex 3.1
Baic Edcao
This program would target those individuals who:
(a) register as a job applicant at the local employment office;
(b) have prior work experience (minimum 3 months);
(c) are between the ages of 16 and 40; and
(d) have no formal education or have not completed primary school.
The rationale for these criteria is that the training should benefit these seeking employment who are
under-qualified both from the point of view of specific skills an in terms of basic education.
Participants are largely, but not exclusively, anticipated to be rural migrants seeking more
remunerative employment in urban areas. Under the project, this is a pilot program which will be
fully evaluated.
In both programs, priority would be given to family heads with economic dependents and therefore
more urgent needs.



- 86 -                              Annex 5.2
PROJECr DESCRIPTION
TRAENING FOR YOUNG INEXPER3:CD WOREER
1.    Workers who lack the necessary skills to qualify for existing vacancies and who have no prior
work experience would qualify for training under the in-plant training modality supported by the
project.
2.    In-plant training has been successfully used under the Manpower Training Project (Ln. 2876-
ME). Under this training modality, enterprises communicate their needs for workers with specific
skills to their local employment office. SEE staff then select, among the unemployed, the most
appropriate candidates for training. Basic selection criteria included heads of household 18 or more
years old with economic dependents.
3.    Course content is determined by the enterprise and always includes a combination of
classroom and on-the-job training. Course duration varies between two and six months with the
average duration being three months. While enterprises are not required to hire all trainees upon
training completion, experience has shown that the majority of trainees are hired.
4.    Under the in-plant training modality enterprises cover the costs of instructors and materials,
provide the necessary physical training facilities and normally pay the trainees a small amount to
cover transportation and meal costs. The Government provides a stipend equal to the minimum wage
to each participant.
5.    The proposed project would target this type of training to those workers who lack work
experience and, thus, do not qualify for the retraining program. SEEs would actively promote the in-
plant training program and would encourage enterprises with skilled worker needs to participate in the
program. The program would have the dual-purpose of providing skills to the most disadvantaged
youth and unemployed and giving them the opportunity to obtain the necessary work experience to
become active labor force participants.
6.    Cost recovery options for this group of trainees would not be feasible because of the high
administration and transaction costs involved.
7.    Evaluations of all of PROBECAT'S training modalities would be carried out during the
project implementation period (the first one in 1994) to measure the impact of alternative training
programs and delivery systems on the employment and earnings of program participants and to assess
the cost effectiveness of the programs. Terms of reference for evaluation of the program were agreed
upon during appraisal and will be confirmed during negotiations (Annex 5.3).



- 87 -                               Annex 5.3
PROJECr DESCRIPTION
Evaluation indicators to measure SEE performance include (but need not be limited to):
I1  =  Vacancies/Number of Employees
12  = Placements/Number of Employees
13  = Training Courses Organized/Number of Employees
I4  = Placements/Job Seekers
15  = Actual Job Seekers Registered/Planned Job Seekers Registered
16  = Actual Vacancies Captured/Planned Vacancies Captured
17  = Actual Placements/Planned Placements
I8  = Actual Labor Retraining Graduates/Planned Labor Retraining Graduates
I9  = Job Seekers Registered per Employee * I5
I10 =  Vacancies per Employee * I6
Ill =  Placements per Employee * 17
These indicators will be compiled monthly on the basis of daily data at the SEE level and reported
every six months to the central level.



- 88 -                              Annex 5.4
PROJECT DESCRITON
TE RMB OF REFEENCE FIOR PROBECAT EAUTO
OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY. Th objectives are: (i) to design surveys for use in evaluations of
the PROBECAT program; (ii) to meaure the impact of alternative training programs and delivery
systems on the employment and earnings of PROBECAT participants; and (iii) to assess the cost-
effectiveness of PROBECAT and its different training modalities (classroom versus in-plant).
A. Swreys
The first part of the study is intended to develop data bases needed for evaluations of the
PROBECAT program. Samples of trainees should be administered a retrospective survey at least one
year after training completion. The survey should elicit information on respondents' demographic
attributes, household characteristics, and both pre-intervention and post-intervention labor market
histories. Similar data should be collected for a comparable group of unemployed individuals that did
not participate in PROBECAT, to serve as a control group for the PROBECAT trainees. The
following specific actions are needed:
(1) A retvspectve survey of trinees should be fidded In 1994 to the 1993 cohort of
trainees. This survey should be modeled on INEGI's 1992 PROBECAT survey of trainees who
completed training in 1990. That survey elicited a wealth of information on the individual, on all
jobs held since completion of training until February 1992, including start and end dates for each job,
monthly salary, weeldy hours worked, occupation, and industry of employment. The survey should
be augmented to elicit more pre-training information, in particular about the last job held prior to
entering the PROBECAT program, if any; this information should include, at a minimum, industry,
firm size, monthly salary, hours worked, and start and end dates for the job.
(2) The 1994 PROBECAT survey should be administered to a sample of trainees that is
representative of both training modalities; it should cover at least 5 % of the men and women who
completed training in the middle of 1993 - or about 2,000-3,000 individuals. This survey should
limit coverage of the post-training period to about one year. Whilst it would be desirable to monitor
these trainees over a longer period, in practice it is both difficult and costly to do so. The survey
would be completed between September and December 1994, ie. 12 months after the 1993 trainees
have completed their courses. This would enable the analysis and tabulation of results to be
completed by March 31, 1995 for a full review with the World Bank. A second PROBECAT
survey should be fidded In 1995 to a similar size sample of trainees completing training in 1994. A
third survey, possibly modified to address specific issues that arise during the program's
implementation, could be fielded in 1997.
(3) A control grwp sould be developed for the 1994 PROBECAT sample. In principle,
such a control group can be selected from the unemployed individuals in the quarterly urban labor
force survey (ENEU). As structued, each rotation group of households in the ENEU is followed
over five consecutive quarters. Each quarter, household members are asked a set of questions about
employment status, monthly salary, hours of work per week, firm size, and industry. Thus, the 1994
PROBECAT and ENEU surveys should be broadly comparable, both in their one year coverage of
the post-training/unemployed period and in the kinds of labor force questions asked. Four ENEU
rotation grups -households etering in the first, second, third and fourth quarters- should yield a
control group sample of about 2,000 unemployed men and women at existing unemployment rates.



- 89 -                              Annex 5.4
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(4) Two minor modifications to the ENEU should be negotiated between STPS and INEGI
no later than December 31, 1993, to make the ENEU more useful for this evaluation. First,
information on the start dates of jobs should be elicited if an individual reports being employed in a
given quarter. As currently structured, information is available on the duration of the current
unemployment spell but not the current employment spell at the time of the survey. This presents
problems for determining when an individual leaves unemployment and enters employment. Second,
information should be elicited not only about the current job, if employed, but also about the last job
if currently unemployed. In its present form, the ENEU provides no information about the last job
held by an individual, a particularly acute omission for the unemployed people beginning the first
quarter of their five-quarter rotation, and for those who remained unemployed in subsequent quarters.
(5) Two altenatives exist for getting information on Ist job. INEGI can either ask all
respondents about current or last job (as in the U.S. Current Population Survey), or ask the
unemployed a limited set of questions about firm size, industry, hours of work, and monthly salary in
their last job. The first approach requires modification of ENEU's job-related questions and skip
patterns; the second approach, the addition of four questions about the last job. The second approach
generates a broader data set on the unemployed and thus is preferable.
B. Evaluation Studies
The evaluation studies are intended to measure the effects of program participation on labor
market outcomes, and to assess the cost-effectiveness of the PROBECAT program. Another objective
is to evaluate the impact of different training modalities and alternative training delivery systems so as
to improve the quality of services provided the unemployed. Design of the evaluation study should
reflect the following considerations:
-- (1) A range of labor market outcomes should be evalusted. These should include (but not
be limited to) the following outcomes: (a) time to first job, (b) employment probability over
progressively longer periods of time, (c) the proportion of time spent unemployed over one year, (d)
job stability, (e) monthly salary and hourly wage, and (f) hours worked per week.
(2) A control group should be used in the evaluation. Selection bias in measurement of
program impacts arises because PROBECAT participants rota random sample of the unemployed
population. As such, the effects of trferred by comparing outcomes to the
experiences of an appropriate control group.
(3) Three approaches exist for addressing the issue of selection bias. One approach uses a
control group with similar attributes to the trainee population. This technique uses program selection
criteria to identify an "eligible" group of non-trainees. A second approach is to correct for sample
selectivity using a two-stage econometric technique in which outcomes are measured conditional upon
selection into training. A third approach is to compare post-training outcomes (e.g., wages) to
comparable pre-training measures. This method recognizes that individuals are heterogeneous (e.g.,
because of unmeasured ability, tastes, and motivation), and that they are their best controls. To the
extent possible, the sensitivity of results using the various approaches should be compared.
(4) The surveys described in Section A will yield roughly equal numbers of trainees and
controls. Account should be taken of the oversampling of trainees in these data relative to their true
proportion in the population (about 10% in 1989). The data should be reweighed, and regression
models estimated using choice-based weights.



- 90 -                              Anne 5.4
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(5) The cost-fecivenss of the PROBECAT program should be adused. A
methodology for assigning a monetary benefit to each of the different impacts of program
participation should be developed and justified by DGE prior to the commenen of the survey, ic.
before June 30, 1994. For example, the private benefit from shorter unemployment spells attributable
to the intervention may be valued at the average trainee's post-training wage. These benefits should
be compared to the per-trainee costs of PROBECAT to derive a benefit-cost estimate. Program costs
should include both direct and indirect costs.
(6) AlMternive training modalities and delivery system should also be evaluated. Issues to
be addressed include (a) the relative impacts of various kinds of training provided; and (b) the relative
efficacy of alternative training delivery systems, and whether outcomes vary across training
institutions once the background characteristics of trainees, training mix, type of course, gender of
trainee and regional effects are taken into account. Special attention would be placed on attempting to
identify the causes of different employment and wage effects of training for men and women.
C. Comultant Proposals
Evaluations should be conducted under the direction of the Directorate of Employment Studies
and Policies, in coordination with the DSNE, and with technical assistance, as required, by outside
consultants. Technical assistance needs are estimated at 8 to 9 person-months per evaluation study.
Consultants should have demonstrated expertise in manpower training evaluation studies,
familiarity with current developments in evaluation methods, and experience using the econometric
methodologies described in Section B.
D. Schedule
The retrospective survey of 1993 trainees would be fidded in the second and third quarters of
1994, and cover their whole labor marlet history for the year following training. Prior to the
commencement of the survey, the questionnaire would be submited to the Bank for approval. These
data would be available for analysis by December 1994. The first evaluation study would be
completed by March 31, 1995 (subject to Section 5.01(a) of the Leon Agreeennt). The results and
implications for program design would be discussed with the Bank at that time and would condition
further Bank's financial support to the program (for details see Annex 3.1).
A second PROBECAT survey would be fielded in he third and fourth quarters of 1995 in
parallel with the Basic Education survey to a sample of trainees completing training in 1994. The
corresponding evaluation would be completed by September 30, 1996, and results discussed with the
Bank during the 1996 annual review.
A third survey, slightly modified to address specific issues that arise during the program's
implementation would be fidded in 1996. The evaluation study would be completed by September
30, 1997, with results to be used for the overall project evaluation and project completion report.



-91-                                 Annex 5.5
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
CIMO EVALUATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MONITORING AND E3VALUATION
OBJECTIVES. A first objective is to monitor the implementation of CIMO interventions on a
continuous system-wide basis, so as to assure the quality, timeliness and effectiveness of CIMO
services. A second objective is to measure the impact of CIMO interventions on the performance and
productivity of enterprises and to assess the efficacy and overall cost-effectiveness of the program,
and its different support modalities. To this end, the evaluation framework for CIMO comprises a
range of monitoring and evaluation instruments, namely: (i) program-wide annual operational
reviews; (ii) semi-annual progress reports at the UPC level; (iii) detailed case studies compiled at the
UPC level; and (iv) rigorous program impact-evaluation analyses of CIMO, including a cost-benefit
study of CIMO interventions. The Bank would review each of these evaluations at the appropriate
annual reviews, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project modifications to be
undertaken as a result.
1. MONITORING
A. Program-Wide Annual Operational Reviews
The annual operational reviews would analyze previous year performance, budget allocation
and expenditures for the program as a whole, and present the detailed set of monitoring indicators and
progress review criteria agreed with the Bank. Annual performance reports would be compiled at the
central level on the basis of program performance information generated through the financial and
administrative control system.
B. Semi-Annual Progress Reports at the UPC Levd
Each UPC would prepare semi-annual progress reports summarizing the key monitoring
indicators at the local level and contrasting actions programmed with actions actually undertaken over
the previous six-month period.
C. Detailed Case Studies
Each UPC would also document a limited number of case studies, aimed at illustrating both
quantitative and qualitative effects of CIMO interventions. The case studies would focus on one or
more areas of impact, documenting effects of CIMO actions on individual firms, groups of firms,
training suppliers and/or public institutions supporting MSMEs. The case studies would provide
important insights into the more qualitative affects of CIMO interventions, and contribute to CIMO's
dissemination/demonstration strategy.
2. PROGRAM IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
The objectives of the impact evaluation study are: (i) to design a data collection strategy to
evaluate the effects of the CIMO program; (ii) to measure the impact of interventions on improving
the performance and productivity of enterprises and its workers; (iii) to assess the overall cost-
effectiveness of the CIMO program; and (iv) to develop improved productivity measures by relating
the qualitative improvements to quantitative outcomes such as output or inputs.



-92 -                               Annex S.5
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Data Reqe       :
The first part of the study is intended to develop data bases needed to evaluate the CIMO
program and to improve the effectiveness of CIMO support for micro, small, and medium-sized
enterprises. This effort should be designed to institutionalize evaluation capabilities at the program
level and at the level of the individual UPC. It will require: (a) routine, and ongoing collection of
key economic data for each diagnosis; (b) use of a common format for recording data across UPCs;
(c) familiarizing all promoters with evaluation concepts and methodologies; (d) surveys of selected
enterprises to measure post-intervention outcomes; and (e) use of a control group of enterprises in
assessing the impact of CIMO interventions. Specifically,
(1) Background data on a time-series of key economic variables should be collected from all
enterprises at the diagnosis that precedes the intervention. This practice of colecing a common set
of variables across UPCs should be institutionalized for all interventions, beginning in 1993. The
kinds of data collected may vary by intervention type, being more limited for pure training services
(type A interventions) and more comprehensive for integrated services and support for groups of
firms (type B interventions).
(2) Diagnoses should include information on key variables for a minimum of the two most recent
yeas. For Type B interventions, the data should include year-end levels of production, inventories,
number of workers, new hires and quits, costs of raw materials, and estimated value of equipment
and machinery. For Type A interventions, where intrusive data requests may not be appropriate,
these data shoula include (at the minimum) year-end levels of production and the number of workers
(from which labor productivity is calculated). Contemporaneous data on the enterprise-average wage
rates, and other qualitative information-should also be collected for all interventions.
(3) In each UPC, two representative groups of r    should be sdected, one a group of firms that
experienced a CIMO intervention and one to serve as a control group. The first group of firms
should be administered a follow-up survey one year after the intervention to elicit information on
intervention outcomes. The control firms should be selected from diagnoses conducted in the same
year as the follow-up survey. The impact of CIMO on the first group of firms may be inferred from
comparing outcomes with pre-intervention data provided by the control group. Thus, survey costs
would only be necessary for the follow-up sample.
(4) Follow-up surveys should provide information on the levels and changes in key economic
outcomes one year after the inervention, as well as information on the qualitative changes and
improvements that are directly attributable to the intervention. The latter may include questions from
the original CIMO survey, as well as new questions on other outcomes. The design of this survey
instrument should begin when the original evaluation is completed, and its methodology, limitations,
and findings thoroughly discussed. A small pilot should be fielded to test and refine this survey
instrument.
(5) The first follow-up survey should be fielded in 1994 to a sample of enterprises that experienced
an intervention in 1993, and elicit retrospective data for the years 1992-1994. By 1993, all UPCs
would have adopted a common format for the diagnoses that will be used as a control group for the
follow-up survey. About 225 enterprises dxould be surveyed, including about 175 Type A
interventions (pure training services) and about 50 Type B interventions Qmtegrated and group
services). Each UPC will be responsible for fielding the survey to an average of 7 enterprises. A



- 93 -                    ~~~~~~Annex 5.5
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
similar-sized (225) sample of control firms should be selected from the universe of enterprises given a
diagnosis in 1994.
(6) A second survey should be fielded in 1996 to a similar sized sample of interventions in 1995.
Diagnoses already exist for these enterprises, so the follow-up survey need focus only on collecting
outcomes data for 1995-1996. The outcomes should be compared to the control group of enterprises
given a diagnosis in 1996. The objective of this second survey should be to evaluate new kinds of
CIMO interventions and to improve existing services.
B. Evaluation Analyses
The objective of the second part of the study is to evaluate the impact of CIMO interventions
on the performance of enterprises, using the data described in Section A. Analysis should focus on
evaluating the cost-effectiveness of the CIMO program, comparing the relative effectiveness of
different kinds of CIMO interventions, and developing better measures of productivity by relating
changes in physical output measures to improvements in various qualitative outcomes. The analyses
should be designed to yield concrete recommendations for improving the quality of CIMO support for
enterprises.
The evaluation should include the following tasks:
(1) Desgning a progrm  impact m     nt methodology. This methodology should take into
account the following considerations:
(a)    The impact of an intervention can be measured by comparing outcomes against the
pre-intervention measures of the same enterprise or that of a control group of firms.
The analyst should make an assessment of whether the alternative measures yield
different conclusions.
(b)   A control group should be selected from the data bases obtained through the initial
diagnoses. To the extent possible, the control group selected should resemble the
enterprises with an intervention, particularly with respect to industry and firm size.
(c)   In measuring impacts, checks for accuracy, consistency of responses across questions,
and avoidance of double-counting should be made. These concerns should be
reflected in the methodology for quantifying each outcome and summing across
outcomes to get a total program impact.
(d)    Both quantitative and qualitative outcomes should be analyzed. The quantitative
impacts include increased production (sales) and labor productivity, and reduced
inventories, materials use, and job turnover. The qualitative impacts may include
better product quality, systems for cost accounting, identification of new products and
markets, new forms of work organization, improved worker incentives, morale and
attitudes towards work, and work conditions.
(e)    Different measurement and evaluation strategies may be needed for Type A and Type
B interventions. The analyst should work closely with CIMO and UPC promoters to
tailor evaluations for each intervention type.



-94-                                 Annex 5.S
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(2) Evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of CIMO should relate quantifiable benefits of the
intervention to the total direct and indirect costs associated with that support. The total cost of each
CIMO intervention has to be measured, taking into account the cost of all components (the UPC's
equipment, furniture, promoter's salaries, etc.) that may be justifiably allocated to it (e.g., on the
basis of promoter's time or cost of the intervention). Private costs should also be measured,
including all direct costs borne by the enterprise (tuition, wages and salaries of workers involved, and
materials use), and the opportunity costs incurred by workers when participation occurs outside
regular working hours (imputed using average hourly wage rates).
(3) Sensitivity-analysis should also be conducted. Cost-benefit estimates can be sensitive to
assumptions about both benefits and costs. The sensitivity of estimated cost-benefit ratios or internal
rates of return calculations should be assessed for a variety of alternative assumptions. These may
include assumptions about the period over which benefits are accumulated, the time path of such
benefits, and the inclusion of increasingly more comprehensive categories of direct and indirect costs.
(4) Different kinds of CIMO services should be analyzed for insights into the relative
effectiveness of altenative interventions. These analyses should be possible through a judicious
selection of firms provided different kinds of CIMO support. Separate estimates of the quantitative
and qualitative impacts of different kinds of CIMO interventions (e.g., Types A and B) should be
made, and their relative cost-effectiveness compared.
(5) An effort should be made to develop improved measures of productivity. The empirical
relationships between quantitative and more qualitative outcome measures should be studied (e.g.,
What impact does introducing a just-in-time inventory system have on changes in inventory levels?
How effective is it to train workers without parallel improvements in work organization or
supervisory control? Do improvements in product quality and timeliness of supply translate into
increased sales for the enterprise?) The separate, and joint, effects of qualitative improvements on
quantitative outcomes should be investigated using regression models. The results may be used to
infer the likely productivity or cost-saving effects of changes in qualitative outcomes that are the
target of integrated CIMO services.
C. Consultant Proposals
The UPCs will be responsible for data collection. The Directorate of Employment Studies
and Policies, in coordination with CIMO, will be responsible for the development of the data bases,
and the evaluation methodology and analysis. Technical assistance, as required, should be provided
by outside consultants. Consultants should have demonstrated expertise in evaluation studies,
familiarity with current developments in evaluation methods, and experience using the econometric
methodologies described in Section B.
D. Schedule
Enterprise performance data would be collected in all UPCs on a systematic and continuous
basis beginning in 1993. Prior to the com n     of the survey, the questionnaire would be
submitted to the Bank for approval. The first follow-up survey would be fielded in 1994 to a sample
of enterprises that experienced an intervention in 1993. The first evaluation study would be
completed by June 30, 1995 and results included in the mid-term review.



-95-                                Annex 5.5
PROJECr DESCRIPTION
The second follow-up survey would be fielded in 1996 to a sample of 1995 interventions.
The evaluation study based on this survey would be completed by March 31, 1997, and results would
be used for overall project evaluation in the project completion report.



- 96 -                              Annex 5.6
PROJECr DESCRIPTION
EYALUAUIQ  OF TSBASIC 13DIZCA3=NPRGA
TE3RNMS OF REFRENCE FOR DAACOLL1C`T   AND S1TUDY
OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY. The objectives are: (i) to design a data collection strategy for use
in the evaluation of the Basic Education program; (ii) to measure the impact of program participation
on employment, earnings and working conditions of trainees; and (iii) to assess the cost-effectiveness
of the Basic Education Program. The Bank would review the survey at the 1996 annual review, and
agree with the Government on any action plans or project modifications the be undertaken as a result.
A. Survey
The first part of the study is intended to develop the database needed for the evaluations of
the Basic Education program. Samples of trainees should be administered a retrospective survey at
least one year after training completion. The survey should elicit information on respondents'
demographic attributes, household characteristics, and both pre-intervention and post-intervention
labor market histories. Similar data should be collected for a comparable group of unemployed
individuals (with little or no formal education) that did not participate in the Basic Education
Program, to serve as a control group for the trainees. The following specific actions are needed:
(1) As part of the regular PROBECAT evaluation effort, a retrspective survey of Basic
Education Program trainees sbould be fielded in 1996 to the 1995 Cohbrt of trainees. This survey
should be modeled along the lines of the PROBECAT survey described in the PBCAT
Evaluation: Terms of Reference for Data Collection and Studies in thisi -amex. The survey should
elicit a wealth of information on the individual, including demographic and household characteristics;
on last job held prior to entering the PROBECAT program if any, including at a minimum, industry,
firm size, monthly salary, hours worked, and start and end dates for the job; and on all jobs held
since completion of training, including start and end dates for each job, monthly salary, weekly hours
worked, occupation, and industry of employment. The 1996 suz ey should be administered to a
representative sample of 1995 Basic Education trainees (it should cover at least 10% of the men and
women who completed Basic Education training in 1995).
(2) A control group should be devdoped for the 1996 Basic Education Trainee sample. In
principle, such a control group can be selected from comparable unemployed individuals -i.e., those
with no formal education or with just incomplete primary schooling- in the quarterly urban labor
force survey (ENEU). Four ENEU rotation groups -households entering in the first, second, third
and fourth quarters- should yield a control group sample of about 200 unemployed men and women
with no or little formal education at existing unemployment rates and schooling levels.
B. Evaluation Study
The evaluation study is intended to measure the effects of program participation on labor
market outcomes, and to assess the cost-effectiveness of the Basic Education program. Design of the
evaluation study should reflect the following considerations:
(1) A range of labor mket outcomes should be evaluated. These should include (but not
be limited to) the following outcomes: (a) time to first job, (b) employment probability over
progressively longer periods of time, (c) the proportion of time spent unemployed over one year, (d)



- 97 -                              Annex 5.6
PROJECT DESCRIPION
job stability, (e) insertion into formal sector jobs, including size of firm and where employed (f)
changes in occupation and/or industry, (g) monthly salary and hourly wage, and (h) hours worked per
week. For the underqualified unemployed workers targeted by the Basic Education Program, the
impact of program participation on moving from informal sector jobs to formal sector employment is
likely to be of key interest. The evaluation should explicitly consider this issue.
(2) A control group should be used i the evaluat. Seection bias in measurement of
program impacts arises because program participants are not a random sample of the unemployed
population. As such, the effects of training should be inferred by comparing outcomes to the
experiences of an appropriate control group. Two approaches should be used in addressing the issue
of selection bias. One approach should use a control group with similar attributes to the trainee
population. This technique uses program selection criteria to identify an eligible" group of non-
trainees. The second approach should compare post-training outcomes to comparable pre-training
measures. This method recognizes that individuals are heterogeneous (e.g., because of unmeasured
ability, tastes, and motivation), and that they are their best controls. To the exte  pouible, the
sensitivity of results using the two approache should be compared.
(3) The sample data for trainees and controls should be reweighed to reflect the true
proportions of trainees and controls in the overall unemployed population, and regression models
estimated using choice-based weights.
(4) The cost-effectivene  of the Baic Educaion progrm  should be asessed. A
methodology for assigning a monetary benefit to each of the different impacts of program
participation should be developed and justified. These benefits should be compared to the per-trainee
costs of the program to derive a benefit-cost estimate. Program costs should include both direct and
indirect costs.
C. Conutant Propos
Evaluations should be conducted under the direction of the Directorate of Employment Studies
and Policies, in coordination with the DSNE, and with technical assistance, as required, by outside
consultants. Consultants should have demonstrated expertise in manpower training evaluation studies,
familiarity with current developments in evaluation methods, and experience using the econometric
methodologies described in Section B.
D. Schedule
A retrospective survey would be fielded in the third and fourth quartera of 1994 to a sample
of the 1994 cohort of Basic Education program trainees. The evaluation study of the Basic Education
program would be completed by September 30, 1996 and results discussed at the 1996 annual review.



-98 -                               Annex 5.7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. NATIONAL EIPLOYIMT SURVEY AND TRAPNING MODULE
OBJECTIVES. The objective of the survey is to elicit household-based information on employment
and unemployment characteristics of the population 12 years of age and over at the national level.
The survey is complemented by a module on education and training, which seeks to obtain
information on education and training of workers, and on the links between these investments and
worker earnings. By eliciting data on employment and unemployment with national coverage, the
survey would address some key gaps in Mexico's labor market data, and contribute to a better
understanding of the economic factors driving individual labor force behavior, and therefore to a
better evaluation of labor market policies and programs.
THE SURVEY. A National Employment Survey (ENE) was fielded in the second quarter of 1988,
and again in the second quarter of 1991. To ensure the availability of a continuous series of
comparable information, the new survey would be fielded in the second quarter of 1993, and every
two yeas thereafter (1995 and 1997). The Bank would review each of these surveys at the
appropriate annual review, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project
modifications to be undertaken as a result. The survey would have the following features:
A. SmRling. The sampling scheme, sample coverage and data collection methods would follow
those of the 1988 and 1991 ENEs. The survey would be collected from a probability, multi-stage,
stratified sample of approximately 50,000 households. It would cover two population universes,
urban areas and less-urbanized areas. The first universe would comprise the 32 main urban areas plus
all localities with 100,000 inhabitants or more and the state capitals. This sample would consist of
approximately 45,000 households. The second universe, for less urbanized areas (under 100,000
inhabitants), would comprise the rest of the country, grouped into nine regions according to a set of
income, health, education and employment indicators. This sample would consist of 5000
households.
B. Survey Instrument. The survey questionnaire would be modeled along the lines of the 1988 and
1991 ENEs, and would include a household characteristics section, a basic urban employment section
to be used in urban areas, a basic rural employment section to be applied in the less-urbanized areas,
and a module on training and education to be used for all households. The survey instrument for the
training module would follow that of the 1991 ENE trining module (which improved upon the
1988), but would attempt to distinguish between total amount of training received and amount of
training received with the current employer. The survey questionnaire would be sent to the Bank for
review prior to the fielding of each ENE.
RESULTS. Basic survey results would be published, and the microdata contained in these surveys
made available to external research institutes and academic institutions, within a year of data
collection.



-99-                                Anne 5.7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. The surveys would be conducted under the direction of the
CGPEET, in coordination with INEGI. Expert technical assistance, as required, would be used in
survey design.
SCHEDULE. Preparation work for the 1993 ENE survey would begin in October, 1992. The
survey questionnaire would be sent to the Bank for review and approval by January 31, 1993. The
survey would be fielded in the second quarter of 1993 (April-June). Microdata would be available by
December 31, 1993. The calendar would be identical for the 1995 and 1997 surveys.
2. NATIONAL SURVEY OF EMPLOYMENT. COMPENSATION. T                 NOLOGY AND
llG
OBJECTIVES. The objective of the survey (Encuesta Nacional de Empleo, Salarios, Tecwlogfa y
Capacitation) is to elicit basic data on the characteristics of employment, compensation, technology,
and training in a representative sample of establishments in the manufacturing sector. Tbis
information will be important both for describing the current status of enterprises and their evolution
over time, and for developing government policies to modernize Mexico's manufacturing sector and
improve its productivity and international competitiveness. The Bank would review this survey at the
1994 and 1996 annual reviews, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project
modifications to be undertaken as a result.
SURVEY STRUCTURE. The structure of the national survey should be modelled broadly on the
survey developed with assistance from the ILO, that was fielded in the spring of 1992. Information
should be collected on each of the following six topics:
(1) Production: level of production and sales; main products; domestic and foreign
ownership; primary inputs including machinery and equipment, labor, raw materials, and energy;
changes in inputs and outputs over the past three years; capacity utilization; and estimates of capital
equipment by type of technology.
(2) Employment: current level and changes in employment over time; the stucture of
employment by occupation, full-time and part-time status, and sex; hours of work; job turnover and
recruitment policies.
(3) Compnation: average compensation by occupation, sex, and length of job tenure; the
level and structure of compensation, including salaries, bonuses, allowances, and severance pay;
factors that shape compensation policy.
(4) Technology: investments in technology acquisition, including spending on research and
development and technology licensing; the importance of quality control; problems and constraints on
improving technology and productivity.
(5) Organization: forms of work organization; consequences for employment; quality control
and promotion policies.
(6) Iraining: sources and type of training provided different groups of workers; frequency
of training; hours of training; consequences of training for productivity and product quality;
constraints and incentives to provide training; factors that shape training policies.



- 100 -                              Annex 5.7
PROJECr DESCRIPTION
IMPLMENTATION. The first survey should be fielded in 1994 to a random sample of about
7,000 manufacturing establishments, and be followed by a second survey in 1996.
(1) The sample sdected should be representative of the underlying population of
manufacturing establishments, in terms of the establishment sizes, occupational categories, and
industries used in the System of National Accounts.
(2) Development of survey insuments for the 1994 and 1996 surveys should build upon
INEGI's experiences with the 1992 survey. STPS should work closely with INEGI to modify the
length and content of survey instuments to minimize both response burden and measurement error in
future surveys.
(3) The 1992 survey data should be analyzed extensively, both for checks of consistency in
the data and for the economic content of responses. For example, can sensible production functions
be estimated using three years of production data? Is productivity relatively higher in establishments
using more technologically sophisticated equipment? Is labor turnover lower in plants which pay
higher wages or provide more training? Answers to questions such as these should help refine or
augment questions to be asked in future surveys.
(4) A random sample of about 600-700 establishments in both the 1994 and 1994 surveys
should be selected to respond to a short worker survey (Encuesta a Trabajodores Manufacturros).
The experience with the 1993 worker survey should provide lessons on how this supplementary
worker-level survey may best be incorporated into the National Survey.
SCEDULE. Preparation work for the 1994 survey would be initiated during the last quarter of
1993. The survey questionnaire would be sent to the Bank for review by January 31, 1994. The
survey would be fielded Oointly with the survey of workers in manufacturing) in April-June, 1994.
Microdata would be available by December 31, 1994. The calendar would be similar for the 1996
survey.
3. SURVEY OF VWO          IN MNUFACTURING
OBJECTIVES. The objective of the survey (Encuesta a Trabojadores Mamofareros) is to elicit
basic information on a sample of workers employed in establishments that responded to the National
Survey of Employment, Salaries, Technology, and Training (Encuesta Nacional sobre Empko,
Salarios, Tecaolog(a, y Capactad6n en el Sector Mwu(*zcuirero). Worker-level information on
employment, earnings, and training histories may be linked with enterprise-level data such as
machinery, technology, and work organization, to better understand the economic factors that shape
employer and worker incentives to train, and the productivity outcomes of their training investments.
The Bank would review the survey at the 1993 anmnal review and agree with the Government on any
ction plans or any project modifications to be undaken as a result.
TM SURVEY. The first worker survey would be fielded in 1993 to a ten percent sample of
manufacturing firms that responded to the 1992 National Survey of Employment, Salaries,
Technology, and Training. The survey would be fielded again in 1994 and 1996 atteme eim  as
the Natonal Surveys of etablishmet planned for those years. These surveys would have the
following features:



- 101 -                              Annex 5.7
PROJECI DESCRIPTION
(1) A random sample of about 600 establishments would be selected to respond to the Survey
of Workers. This sample would be restricted to those establishment with relatively complete
responses for the establishment-level survey. Small establishments may be over-sampled to
compensate for potentially lower survey response rates. The resulting sample of establishments would
generally reflect the distribution of establishment sizes and industry in the National Survey.
(2) The Number of workers interviewed would vary with the size of the establishment: 10 in
establishments with less than 200 employees, 20 in establishments with 200-500 employees, and 25 in
establishments with over 500 employees. Workers to be interviewed would be selected randomly
from the payroll of the establishment. This sampling frame would yield a sample of about 10,000
workers.
(3) A pilot study would be fielded in early 1993 to determine the best approach for
administering the worker survey, as well as to refine the survey instrument. One approach is to mail
out a pre-interview survey instrument to selected establishments. Personnel managers will be asked to
(i) sdect a random sample of employees to respond to the survey, and (ii) provide basic data about
each worker's characteristics, and both their employment and wage histories. This survey will be
augmented by in-plant interviews with individual employees.
KEY VARIABLES. Workers in each establishment will be asked to provide additional data about
their employment, earnings, and training histories. This would include the following variables:
(1) Worker Chatstcs. These include age, sex, marital status (and dependents), years
and level of schooling attainment, date completed the highest level of schooling, and whether worked
anytime prior to completing school.
(2) Prior Work History. These include data on prior work experience, the attributes of the
most recent employer-industry and firm size-years of tenure, occupation, and compensation (wages,
non-wage benefits and bonuses), date left last job, and the main reason for leaving the last employer.
(3) Current Employer. These include date joined the current employer, attributes of first job
in the company (occupation, time needed to become fully competent, wages and non-wage
compensation), attributes of the job currently held (occupation, time in occupation, time needed to
become fully competent, and current wage and non-wage benefits).
(4) SkiDs and Training. Workers may get training from: (A) schools, vocational or
technical institutes; (B) industry association centers; (C) formal training in company centers; (D) on-
the-job instruction by supervisors and coworkers; or (E) informal learning on-the-job. Training data
would be elicited at three points in time, in all previous jobs, in the first year with the current
employer, and over the past one year. For training with the current employer, data would be
collected on the total hours of training received (1) at work or on company time, and (ii) not on
company time.
(5) Worker sueslions. Information on suggestions made by workers for improving (I)
materials and input use, (ii) product quality, and (iii) sales, and both the nunber of sugestions by
type, and how they were implemented.



- 102 -                              Annex 5.7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
RESULT. Basic survey results would be published, and the microdata contained in these surveys
made available to exenal research institutes and academic institutions, within a year of data
collection.
TECNICAL ASSISTANCE. The surveys would be conducted under the direction of the
CGPEET, in coordination with INEGI. Expert technical assistance, as required, would be used in
survey design.
SCHEMULE. Preparation work for the 1993 survey on workers in manufacturing would begin in the
last quarter of 1992. The survey questionnaire would be sent to the Bank for review and approval by
January 31, 1993. The survey would be fielded between August and October of 1993 (to allow for
the ENE survey to be fielded in April-June, 1993). Microdata would be available by December 31,
1993. In 1994 and 1996, this survey would be fielded as a module to the National Survey of
Employment, Compensation, Technology and Training.
4. SURVEY ON ,.GRATION
OBJECTIVES. Tbe objective of the survey is to elicit timely information on the size, characteristics
and determinants of migration flows to the U.S.-Mexican border and to the U.S., with emphasis on
the links between these flows and labor market conditions. The Bank would review the survey at the
1993 annual review, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project modifications to
be undertaken as a result.
THE SURVEY. The first migration survey would be fielded in 1993. On the basis of this survey,
the Bank and STPS would revise and agree on the methodology and design of future migration
surveys (to be fielded in 1995 and 1997). The 1993 survey would have the following features:
(1) The survey would be collected from a sample of approximately 14,400 individuals drawn
from the population of migrants. Three types of migrant populations would be sampled: the
population comprised of those seeking to migrate to the U.S.; that comprised of those voluntarily
returning to Mexico; and that comprised of those being deported.
(2) The survey would be collected from each population in three Northern regions (East,
Central and West) and would be fielded at two different times corresponding to low and high
migration season. About 1600 individuals from each population would be interviewed in each region
(800 per season) during a 12 month sampling period, yielding sample sizes of 4800 per population
type.
(3) The sampling scheme, survey methodology, and survey instrument would be refined on
the basis of the results from the pilot recently applied in Tijuana, and of the needs of STPS.
KEY VARIABLES. Individuals would be asked to provide data about their demographic
characteristics, migration and labor market histories. This would include the following variables:
(1) Demographic Characteristics. These include age, sex, marital status (dependents), years
and level of schooling attainment. The survey would also elicit information on the characteristics of
the home at the point of origin.



- 103 -                              Anex 5.7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(2) Labor Market History. These include employment status, occupation, sector/industry,
hours worked, tenure, and earnings before and after migration. The survey would also include a
question on remittances to Mexico.
(3) Migration Characteristics and History. These include point of origin
Oocality/municipality), type of migration flow (individuals/family), reasons for migrating, type of
networks at the place of destination (family, individuals from same town of origin etc), and date of
migration. The survey would also include, depending on the type of population sampled, questions
on characteristics of the trip and crossing into the U.S., time spent in transition and in destination
point, and reasons for returning to Mexico.
RESULTS. Basic survey results would be published, and the microdata contained in these surveys
made available to external research institutes and academic institutions, within a year of data
collection.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. The 1993 survey would be conducted under the direction of the
CGPEET, in coordination with the Colegio de la Frontera Norte. Expert technical assistance, as
required, would be used in future survey design.
SCHEDULE. Preparation work for the survey would begin in September, 1992. The survey
questionnaire would be sent to the Bank for review by June 30, 1993. The survey would be fielded
at two different times between September, 1993 and September, 1994 (to cover both low and high
migration seasons). Results would be generated in parallel with the fielding of the survey, beginning
in March, 1994. On the basis of the 1993 survey, the Bank and STPS would agree on the design,
methodology and calendar for future migration surveys (scheduled for 1995 and 1997).
5. SURVEY OF MICROENTERPRISES
OBJECTIVES. The purpose of the survey is to elicit basic information on employment, earnings,
training, financing and cost patterns in microenterprises. The Bank would review the survey at the
1994 and 1996 annual reviews, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project
modifications to be undertaken as a result.
THE SURVEY. A microenterprise survey was fielded in 1992. The new survey would be fielded in
1994, and again in 1996. The survey would have the following features:
(1) The survey would be applied to a probability subsample of the household-based National
Urban Employment Survey (ENEU). This subsample would comprise those individuals who reported
to be either self-employed or the owner of a firm employing 1 to 15 workers in manufacturing and 1
to 5 workers in other sectors.
(2) The survey would be collected from the last ENEU sample for the preceding year. For
example, in 1992 the survey comprised 17500 households selected from the ENEU December sample.
Sample sizes would remain similar in future surveys.
(3) The information collected on the self-employed, owners and workers in small
establishments could be matched with their household characteristics drawn from the household
registration module of the ENEU.



- 104-                               Anne 5.7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
KEY VARBLES. Individuals would be asked to provide data about their employment, earings,
and training. This would include the following variables:
(1) Individual/household characteristics. These would include age, sex, education, marital
status, dependents, employment status, sector of employment and earnings.
(2) CharaceristIcs of the Microenterprise. These would include size, date established,
reasons for establishing miaote, sources of financing, type of building, accounting system,
equipment, saes and profit, inventories, breakdown of expenditure, suppliers, clients, work
schedules, characteristics of salaried workforce and of unpaid workers, including prior labor force
experience and training.
RESULTS. Basic survey results would be published, and the microdata contained in these surveys
made available to external research institutes and academic institutions, within a year of data
collection.
TECHNICAL ASSIWANCE. The survey would be conducted under the direction of the CGPEET,
in coordination with INEGI. Expert technical assistance, as required, would be used in survey
design.
SCHEDULE. Preparation work for the 1994 survey would begin in the last quarter of 1993. The
survey questionnaire would be sent to the Bank by January 31, 1994. The survey would be fielded
between July and September, 1994. Microdata would be available by February 28, 1995. The
calendar would be similar for the 1996 survey.
6. RETROSPCIVE SURVECY OF INDIVDUAS
OBJECTIVES. Many labor market phenomena are inherently dynamic in nature, and cannot be
adequately studied using cross-sectional data. Repeated surveys can help characterize the ways in
which particular phenomena evolve over time but, since different groups of respondents are used each
time, longitudinal data are seldom available on the same individuals. In particular, little is known
about the constraints and incentives that they face at different times, the way they respond to changing
economic conditions and different government policies, and the future outcomes of these earlier
decisions.
The objective of the Retrospective Survey is to develop longitudinal data on individuals in a
random sample of households covered by the Urban Labor Force Survey (ENEU). The first survey
in 1994 will elicit retrospective histories of individuals; subsequendy, individuals will be followed at
two-year intervals to got information about intervening labor market experiences. By tracking them
over time, policymakers and researhers will be better able to study the individual detmina   and
outcomes of a variety of key labor market issues-including labor force entry and exit, unemployment
and employment, job turnover, education d training, earnings and earnings growth, and migration-
and lead to improved progm evaluations and labor market policies. The Bank would review the
survey at the 1994 annual review, and agree with the Government on any action plans or project
modifications to be undaken as a result.
SURVEY   UCTUR. In developing the longitudinal survey for Mexico, STPS should review
and draw upon the expri       that many industrialized and developing countries have bad with



- 105 -                              Annex 5.7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
fielding longitudinal surveys. Examples include retrospective surveys such as the Malyasian Family
Life Surey, conducted in 1978 and again in 1988, and prospective surveys such as the National
L&ngWidial Survys (NLS) and the Panel Survey of Income Dynamics (PSID) of the United States.
The Retrospective Survey of Individuals should include the following four components: (1)
family income and wealth; (2) retrospective histories of males; (3) retrospective histories of females;
and (4) migration. Information on each component should be updated in subsequent follow-up
surveys. Information to be collected in each component should include (but not be limited to) the
following key variables:
(1) Family Income and Wealth: Data on household structure and earnings collected as part of
ENEU should be supplemented by information on other forms of family income and wealth. These
include family ownership of businesses, houses, land, durables, and other assets; business earnings
and income from rental of rooms, houses, or land; other forms of family income including gifts,
interest income, and pensions.
(2) Retrospective Histories of Males: The questionnaire should elicit a life history from all
economically active males in the household. Retrospective information should be collected from age
15 to the present, and should cover schooling and training, marital status changes, all employment
and unemployment spells, earnings and amount of time worked in each job, occupations, and the
characteristics of employers.
(3) Retrospective Histories of Females: This questionnaire should be administered to all
economically active females in the household. In addition to the questions asked of male respondents,
retrospective information should be collected on all pregnancies, withdrawals from the labor force,
and the main activities while out of the labor force.
(4) Migration: This component elicits information on the extent of regional mobility and
ascertains the causes and consequences of families' migration. It should cover all moves made by the
family, and then focus on the most recent migration event. Questions should be asked about distance
moved, accompaniment of family members, reasons for moving, where lived on arrival, economic
support received, and employment status after moving.
IMPLEMINTATION
(1) The first survey should be fielded in 1994 to all economically active individuals in a
random sample of about 2,000 urban households. This sample will be drawn from one cohort of the
Urban Labor Force Survey (ENEU).
(2) In addition to the ENEU questions, male and female respondents will be administered
separate retrospective questionnaires about their life histories. Household heads, together with their
spouses (if present), will be responsible for answering questions about family income and wealth, and
migration.
(3) Respondents should provide start and end dates for the major events which occur in time.
Interviews should emphasize cross-referencing dates and ages of respondents across events in different
areas, and checking the consistency of the life history over time.



- 106 -                              Ar 5.7
PROJECr DESCRPTION
(4) The 1994 survey data should be analyzed extensively, both for checks of consistency in
the data and for the economic content of responses. Are trends over time in key indicators-such a
unemployment, labor force participation, or earnings-revealed by the retrospective data consistent
with trends developed from external sources? How serious is the recall problem? Are analyses based
on retrospective data capable of yielding additional insights into labor market issues? What other
kinds of data are needed to better investigate these issues? Answers to questions such as these should
help refine or augment questions to be asked in future surveys.
(5) The second survey should be fielded in 1996. Life histories elicited in the first survey
should be updated to include their labor market experiences over the intervening two years. Added
questions raised by the analyses in (4) should be incorporated at this time. In checking the
consistency of the 1996 survey, the 1994-95 labor market information collected by ENEU for this
sample should be compared to that provided by the 1996 survey for the same time period.
SCHEDULE. Preparation work for the 1994 survey would begin in the last quarter of 1993. The
survey would be sent to the Bank for review and approval by January 31, 1994. The survey would
be fielded by INEGI, as a module of the ENEU, in the second quarter of 1994. Microdata would be
available by December 31, 1994. The survey would be fielded again, to the same sample of
individuals, in the second quarter of 1996.



-107 -                                Annex 5.8
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
TERMS OF REFERENCE F'OR SITUDIESS
(TO BE COFRI AND COMILETE3D DURING NGlITOS
1. NEW FORMS OF ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION, AND THEIR
IMPACT ON PRODUCTIVITY GOT
BACKIGROUND AND GENERAL OBJECI1VE
As set out in the recently signed National Agreement for Increased Quality and Productivity,
the Government's labor market strategy has as a key objective the modenization of traditional forms
of organization and management, as a means of facilitating the adoption of new technologies and
fostering productivity growth. STPS is expected to play an important role in this modernization
process through promoting, advising and assisting enterprises and unions on organization and
management practices. The Bank would review this study during the 1993 annual review, and agree
with the Government on any action plans or project modifications to be undertaken as a result. This
study would strengthen STPS capacity to provide this technical assistance by:
(a)    documenting recent developments in enterprise management and organization in a cross-
section of countries;
(b)   reviewing, through a series of case studies, the use of these new forms of management and
organization in Mexico, with emphasis on the more export-oriented and competitive sectors;
(c)    linking these developments with increases in productivity, product quality and
competitiveness.
DATA SOURCES
The study would draw principally on the existing literature and on studies for other countries.
It would also rely on case studies (some of which could be based on CIMO enterprises), and on the
analysis of basic data on organization, training, technology, and promotion and wage schemes from:
the National Employment Survey and Training Module;
the National Survey on Employment, Wages, Technology and Training; and
the National Survey on Microenterprises, among others.
RESULTS
The output would help strengthen STPS advisory capacity in the area of organization and
management. It would also provide information relevant to the CIMO program.



- 108 -                              Annex S.8
PROJECT DESCRIPIlON
PROJECr LENGTH
The study will be carried out during February-May, 1993. It is expected to involve
approximately 8 person-months of work.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The study would be conducted under the direction of the CGPEET, with technical assistance
support from an outside consultant with experience in the field of industrial organization and
management.
2. ENMPLOyYM IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
BACKGROUND AND GENERAL OBJECTTVE
In 1992, the Government initiated a radical reform of the regulations and institutions
governing the agricultural sector. These reforms are expected to have a significant impact on the
labor market through: (a) the appearance of new forms of salaried employment in rural areas; and (b)
via rural/urban and/or rural/rural migration flows. To respond appropriately in its policies and
programs to these possible labor market developments, STPS needs to identify, and to the extent
possible forecast, the potential labor market effects of the reforms.
To this end, the study would seek to:
(a)    document the current structure of employment in the rural areas, and examine recent changes
and their possible link to the reforms;
(b)   analyze existing rural migration patterns and mechanisms, examine their effects on
employment in the secondary and tertiary sectors, and in particular, their effects on export-
oriented industries and the maquiladora;
(c)   on the basis of (a) and (b), identify qualitatively and quantitatively the potential effects of the
reform process, and the populations and regions most likely to be affected.
DATA SOURCES
The study would review and compile all available information on the subject, drawing
especially on the information obtained by the Secretariat of Agriculture (SARH).
To examine land tenure patterns, it would draw on data from the Population Census, the
National Agriculture Census, the Economic Census and the data compiled through the SARH.
To analyze employment behavior in rural areas, the study would rely on the National
Employment Survey (1988 and 1991), and on the migration module of the National Urban
Employment Survey.



- 109 -                              Annex 5.8
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
RESULTS
The output would help strengthen STPS capacity to develop policies and programs to
adequately respond to the changes currently underway in the agricultural sector. It would also help
address some key gaps in existing Inowledge of rural labor markets.
PROJEC LENGTH
The study will be carried out during January-June, 1993. It is expected to involve
approximately 12 person-months of work.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The study would be conducted under the direction of the CGPEET, with technical assistance
support from an outside consultant.
3. THMEXICAN LABOR MARKET: PATTERNS OF BEHAVIOR
OBJECTIYE
The general objective is to develop an operational model which will help to identify and
estimate the effects of implementting different measures and economic policy tools. The model will
be based on a wide theoretical basis. Its main goal is to measure supply and demand variations in the
labor force caused by:
(a)    Specific economic policy actions such as price variations, goods and services
rates produced by the public sector, taxes, exchange rates, interet rates,
inflation control, fiscal deficit, foreign investment, salaries, etc.
(b)    Behavioral pattern of the national aggregate demand and by sector.
(c)    Trade policy, especially tariffs, trade balance and balance of payments
and foreign trade.
(d)    Adapting the legal framework in different areas: foreign investment,
technology transfers, rural, educational, labor and public sector, etc.
(e)    World economic trends, in particular strategic products prices, supply,
interest rates, exchange rates, employment, salaries and economic
growth.
MODEL IMPLICATIONS
The study will result in the formation of a simulation model, quantifying tie impact of
macroeconomic, regional or sector actions, as they relate to labor force demand. Through model



- 110 -                              Annex 5.8
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
development, the main variables and variable relationships will be identified to explain, changes in the
demand and supply of labor force. Different combinations of these variables will be tested, especially
those pertaining to economic policy and interactions with economic policy goals and objectives and
with the national and international economic behavior will be examined. It will also provide
macroeconomic consistency to that currently being carried out by the GEA Group, contracted by this
STPS, on the impact of NAFTA in the labor market.
SQURCES
To form the document base, the results obtained by several consulting firms and higher
education institutions dedicated to modeling, such as: GEA Group, Wharton, Macroasesor(a
Econ6mica, and El Colegio de Mcxco will be used.
From the review of the goals and objectives in the main Government programs and policies,
both on labor issues as well as general economics, dependency relationships between variables will be
derived. These will be the foundation upon which the model will be built. The different currents of
economic theory will be discussed to support the formation of the theoretical framework supporting
the model and which shall adhere to the behavior of the economy and to the general policy on
employment.
An analytical follow-up of changes and paths of current domestic and international economic
and labor issues will be developed. To support the development of the database, a review will be
made of the statistical information related to selected variables, of the time series that can be built and
of their consistency.



- 111 -                                 Annex 5.9
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
INFORQATION TECHNOLOGY EUJIPMENT
MWoriQ Categgries of E4u!Rment
r inunum workstation
25MHz 486 w/4MB RAM           33MHz for equment procured under DGE
80MB hard disk
3.5/5.2S" disket drive.
VGA Color Monitor
LAN board
DOS/Windows/Mous
Voltage regular
Word node
Lots node
Harvard Graphics node
Additional software
Medium size equipmet
33MHz 486 w/4MB RAM           50 Mhz for oqipment intalled in the DGE
170MB hard disk
3.5/5.25" disket drives
VGA Color Monitor
2400bp. modem                 Modem 9600 auto for equpmnt procured under
*  I          -            1~~~DGE
400cps -
DOS/Windows/Mouse
UPS
PC Coordinato
Word/Lotus
HrHvard Grapic
Run-time DFlex
AN Server
SOMHz 486w/8MB RAM            Procesor speed vais from 33 Mhz to 50 Mhz,
and hard disk caacity from 120MB to 1.4GB
320MB hard disk
3.5/5.25' diskt drives
VGA Color Monitor
2400bps modm                  Modem 9600 auto for equipmet procured u
DGE
_ w Pr                      '
Tape bck-up unit
*   *    3adows__
||S:iM I                                       _    ._  _____
11      ' W ordSa e                      __     _   _   _   _    __    _   _   _



-112 -                            Annex 5.9
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EOUIPMENT
Mgjor Categories of Equ=ment
(Continued
Llam Sa W
I Harvard Grapic. Server
D_t_Flex
R IS Eqm__
I Staimicsa Packag RISC
8 Terninal
I x.25 board
4 Modem v.32
j 2 Enmuad  board
1 Commuter x.25
_   Ranl9
_    ktu o eq
Rinl9
x.25 board
DBE



- 113 -                                      An    5.9
PROJECT DESCRIETION
INFORMATION TE-CHNOLG EOUIPMENT
EquMMen under DOE Resgonibilit,
-m199i     [194        FS -' 11996             TOT -L
w~~~                         ~~~~~~~~~ F -* --   I Qi-'  I Q*   Qt, 
SUBTOTAL CIMO
UPCS
Minmum work*won                             0          0           0           0          0
I Medium size equimen                       12           3          3           4         22
M|LAN Serier                                0          0           0           0          0
Minimumworkotatio                           0          0           0           0          0
Medium izequipm                             6         16          14          14         SO
LAN Server                                                                     0          0
iTrating Centrs
Minimum worksoa on                         0          0           0           0          0
Medium size equiat                          2          2           4           2         10
[LAN Server                                  0           0          0           0          0
S nformtion CeIters
Minimum worklaton                           0          0           0           0          0
Medium size u    _                         20          2           4          24         10
ISUBTOTAL CIMOI 
I   MULAN Sarver                                 0           0           0          0          0
SEIs
Mbiimum worksaion                                     48          48          48        144
I    Medium size reqpmen                                    22         26           4         52
LAN Server                                             16         16          16         48
General Directorate of Sodal Seryles and
Humnu  ReSources AdInlutraton 
|   [Minimum wo      8 ttion                    11           0           0          0          11
|   [MediumDUCe.q ImS                            0           0          0           0          0
LAN Server                                  2          0           0           0          2
DGE
rTIO-minimum rwektiol                           26           3          0          22         51
IIMedim sizeeh1t                                 4           0          0           0          4
LAN Servr
TOTAL under DGE Rpepodbh__t_
I   I    m Ii wodOO                    I_       37 1         1 |       4S          701       206
I    Medium izee 0p                      .... 241           4S1        511           1         1-. j
_ l LAN Suer                                          NEW



-114 -                                        Annex 5.9
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EOUEPMENT
_                        S~~~~~~~~udr  Sif
1-~
199          1994          1995         1996         TOTAL
L_                   ~~~~~~Qty      Qty           Qty    Qt                  Qty
CGPECET
Minimum workoa3io                 1                                       0            4
Modium uizeu opmont               1             0            0             0            1
LAN mver                          1            0             0            0             1
Commnication                      I            0             0            0             1
SET
Minimum workstation               1             5            0             0           6
Medium size   q 1                              0            0             0            1
LAN wver                          1             0            0             0            1
RISCequi;mxmt                     I             0            0             0            1
SAPL
Minimum workstatin                1             5            0             0            6
Medium mze eui;ee                1             0            0             0            1
LAN mever                         1             0            0             0            1
Communication                     I             0            0             0            1
SPID
Minmumworkstaion                  1             S            0             0           6
Medium pizequpmet                 1             0            0             0            1
LAN erver                         1             0            0             0            1
Communkation                      1             0            0             0            1
Gral. Dir. of Ocnupatoml
Safety and Health 
Minimum workstaion                1             5            0             0           6
Medium uizequipwnu                1             0            0             0            1
LAN Osver                         1             0            0             0            1
Communicauon             ~      ~1     0            0             0            1
DGCP
Minimum workstatio                1             5            0             0           6
Medium ize ou pmet                1             0            0             0            1
LAN mever                         1             0            0             0            1
CoI munication                    1             0            0             0            1
DGE
I  I                 1                              0             0            0             1
I                                 ___



-115 -                                     Annx59
PROJECr DESCRIMPTON
Eguipment under SET Res=nsiblt
(Continued)
National Committ  for
M inium Wages
Communication                    1            0            0            0            1
e q                           __ent
Federal bard of Reconciliation
and Arbitration
Co1muunication                       1            0            o                        1
_ equnmt
TOTAL under SET
Responsibit_
Minimum workstation              6           28            0            0           34
Medium size equipment            6            0            0            0            6
LAN erver                        6            0            0            0            6
Communication                    8
RISCequipment                    1            0            0            0            1
TOTAL DGE+SET
Minimum worksaion               43           79           48           70          240
Medium size equipment           30           45           51           28          154
LAN erver                       10           16           16           16          5S
Comnmunication                   8            0            0            0            8
__ Cequipment
-_RISC equipment                     1            O            O                        1



MEXICO
LABR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENNANCENENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
RexS                               USS                             X Total
----------------    ---------------------------    X Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total       Exchwnge      Costs
A. Pr.hictivity Enh ncement         272095.7    5600.0   277695.7          87.4       1.8     89.2            2.0       27.7
B. Labor Narket Adjustmnnt
1. StrwUthening of SES           113791.7    3506.5   117298.2          36.6       1.1     37.7           3.0        11.7
2. Retraining Progrin            483214.0    16800.0  500014.0         155.3       5.4    160.7           3.4        49.9
Sub-Total                           597005.7    20306.5  617312.2         191.8       6.5    198.4            3.3       61.6
C. Info., Policy & Inst.Str.
1. Labor Nrkt.Info.System         49375.6    10105.9    59481.5         15.9      3.2      19.1          17.0         5.9
2. Inst. Strengthening            45760.5     2195.7    47956.2         14.7       0.7     15.4           4.6         4.8                          0'
Sub-Total                            95136.1    12301.6   107437.7         30.6       4.0     34.5           11.4       10.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                964237.5   38208.1  1002445.6         309.8      12.3    322.1           3.8       100.0
Physical Contingencies             3978.8     1811.2      5789.9         1.3       0.6      1.9          31.3         0.6
Price Contingencies               95580.6     3798.0    99378.6         30.7       1.2     31.9           3.8         9.9
Totat PROJECTS COSTS               1063796.8   43817.3  1107614.1         341.8      14.1    355.9            4.0      110.5
asss- wss s = = = ; = s s*-- .- .- .- .- - - - - -  ............... -====....-.= ..... -.
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 11/3/1992 14:56
k



OIL. AI LU
MAOM NAMEI AND PRODUCTIVI IV EUNAECENEI PROJECt
Sumary Account by Project Component
Productiv                                                                   Pbr ll               Priem
Ity    streothe                 E ber      In t                        canton -rclot       Cantlinerles
Enhance    ninf of  Retrainin brtt.fnfo  strnogthe                    --------.---------------------.-----
nt       EUS      g Pre r _    S"ytm       inon         totel         I      Aeeunt       2    Amunt
UUSfsnU2sSwSSS-3fl2fl--S*S*iSSfl3fS-USCflS3SSUSS--*USSSU*Sflflflf--S SUtas5=3=3SfSfUSr*N3SSflUSU3SU3flSZSUss
I. IvESINEWT COSTS
....................
A. Equipent
1. Cot iter Equlpment                   6.0        0.0         6.0    11719.0    3970.0   15609.0           5.2      *10.6      6.4     1316.4
2. Training Ctnter Equipannt            6.0        60.    210006.         6.6        6.6   ii11.0           5.6      HSO       11.4    2391.1
. Oel. Ctnter. Lab & Other           696.0         6.6 O.                 6.60       6.6 0   *96.           S.6      36.5      11.6    m7.
4. Audio  isul and Office               6.0    366S.6          6.0        0.6      211.0    36946 60        S        1 4.7      5.5      213.6
sub-total                              09.       33.6    21006.0    11719.0    4161.0  4*663.0               S 1    2359.3       9.9    4626.5
. off ice Rehabilitatlin                 6.0    3766.0          0.0        6.0       06.      3766.6        S0       10.0       7.9      297.3
C. technical Assistne.
1. Iternal ConsuttAnts                S56.0     1660.5        40.0    12343.4    2772.     17566.0         0.6       103.2      7.9     13J5.8
2. Consultants WE                       6.6   25606.6          0.0        6.0        6.0   25606.           0.0       06.       9.7     2417.7
3. Studies nd surveys                   0.0        0.0         00    23946.6         6.*   23946.6          6.5     2029.r    10.5    2S2n.3
4. I.A. to Enterprises              73401.3          6 0       0.0       060         0.6      401.3         0.0        0.0     10.7    61910.
Sub-total                            75951.3   26660.5         40.0   36269.4      2772.1  144913.3          l.S     2132.9    10.2   14U16.7
*.  chotorships                           6.6        0.6  399534.0         0.0        0.0  399534.0          0.0        0.0      9.7   38930.7
E. training
1. Prore_  fwr Enterprises         104340.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0   104340.0         0.0        0.0     10.6    11096.4
2. Staff nd Internal Cons.              6.0      425.2         6.6        *.0    16645.S    17070.6         0.1       17.6      9.0     1S44.2
3. Trainins for 0ecarleo                6.0        0.0    79440.0         0.0         .0    79440.0         0.0        0.0      9.5     7562.6
sub-total                           104340.0      42S.2   79440.0          0.0    16645.5  200650.6          0.0       17.5    10.1   2022S.4
F. PiMicatimns
1. Studie and tepwrts                   0.6      490.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      490.0         0.S        2.5      6.6       32.2
2. Informatln Naterials              131.5        6.0         0.0      106.0       2S.0      264.5         2.4        6.2      9.2       24.3
3. &utletlns ed Jurmnis                 6.6      921.6         0.0     2169.7        0.0     3091.3         0.0        0.0     10.4      321.5
Subttotel                              131.5     1411.6         0.0     2277.7       2S.0     345.6         0.2         6.7      9.6      376.0
6. Pthlicity Capagns                  4000.0 6    306.9         0.0        6.0        0.0    12306.9        06.         0.0      9.6     1177.o
........ ............. .. ................... .. .. ............... . ......... . ....... . ..... ..............
total IUESTNENT COSTS               I9312.8   44447.3  S00014.0   SOZ5 6.1    23623.6  611683.3             0.6      4707.3      9.9   66353.6
II.   OAEC NbT WSTS
....... ................ .....
A. incentives for Staff                  6.6    S066.0          0.0        6.0        6.0      1560.6        0.0        0.0      9.6      464.7
e. fixed-term teop. staff            62eo6.5    643.4           6.6     777.2    13936.9   9621.1            1.2     1682.6    16.3    92re.3
C. Travel UnpIn-.s                    3639.8    6442.2          6.6    s52.6          6.6    126S4.6         0.0        6.6     10.0     1265.4          IV
S. OffIce SIwpleg                        6.6         6.6        6.6        6.6        0.6        6.6         6.0 6.0             0.         6.6 
E. Other Operating Costs              1514.5   S237S.4          0.0      844.2    10395.7   62629.7          0.0        0.0      9.7     ?996.7
Total RtECEMI WIOSTS         t        4162.9   72350.9          0.0     9195.4   24332.6  190561.8          0.6      1062.6    10.0    1965.0
total AREIKE WosTS                 2z7695.7   1796.2  500014.6    59481.5    47956.2  1002445.6             0.6   S579.9         9.9    99373.6
Physeel ContiIgn res               1648.2      452.3      1056.6    2774.9       463.9    5ro9.9
Price Contineencles                29415.0    1115.3    46905.4       SS5.2      4377.7   99373.6          0.6      SS2.2
...................................... .......................................................................   ..... -................. ......... ........... .........
total PiOJECI COSTS                 361519.5   1236n5.9  549969.4   67311.6  S5297.6  1167614.1             0.6     6342.1       9.0   9933.6
uuasuu.euu.n.ss                                                        U33*-------aU3U_UU_ U ------  -- 
laxes                               733.3    4923.?          4.1    5091.1       391.4    21 7.1           1.7      350.1
foreign Exchange                     464.5    3J66.1    19552.9   11416.5        2497.4    43o17.3         4.5     1904.2
................ ...............................................................................................................................
Values Scaled bY 1000606.0 111311992 14:53



MEXICO
LABoR MARKET AMD PRODUCTIVITY ENNAKEENT PROJECT
Sum_ ry Accounts Cost Sumomry
111S                             US$                            2 Totat
--------------------------------     ...........................   X Forefgn       Bass
Locat   Foreign       Total      Loca( Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
1. INVESTMET COSTS
......... .............. ...
A. Equipment
1. Computer Equlpment           4324.2   11364.8   15669.0            1.4     3.7      S.0          72.4        1.6
2. TrainlIg Center Equipmnt    4200.0   16800.0   21000.0             1.3     5.4      6.7          60.0        2.1
3. Ouat. Center. Lab * Other    1216.0    4872.0    609.0             0.4      1.6     2.0          60.0        0.6
4. Audio Visual and Office       1126.2    2767.8    3894.0           0.4     0.9       1.3         71.1        0.4
-- -. -. -. --. - -..- -- . . --    ........................... .............. .....---------...............------------......................... ..................
Sub-Total                          10US.4   35804.6   4673.0             3.5    11.5    15.0           76.7        4.7
8. Office Rehabilitation            3760.0        0.0    3760.0          1.2     0.0      1.2           0.0        0.4
C. Technical Assistance
1. Exteratl Con ultants         17055.3     510.7   17566.0          5.5      0.2      5.6           2.9        1.8
2. Conulttants SEE             25000.0        0.0   25000.0           6.0     0.0      8.0           0.0        2.5
3. Studies nd Surveys           23946.0        0.0   23946.0          T.7     0.0      7.7           0.0        2.4
4. T.A. to Enterprises          78401.3        0.0   78401.3        25.2      0.0    25.2            0.0        7.8
Sub-Total                         144402.6      510.7  144913.3         46.4     0.2     4.6            0.4       14.5
D. Scholarships                   399534.0        0.0  399534.0        128.4     0.0    128.4           0.0       39.9
E. Training
1. Progra_  for Enterprises    104340.0        0.0  104340.0        33.5      0.0    33.5            0.0       10.4
2. Staff and Internal Cons.    17070.8        0.0   17070.8           5.5     0.0      5.5           0.0        1.7
3. Training for secarlos        79440.0        0.0   79440.0         25.5     0.0    25.5            0.0        7.9
-,,-----,---------------,--,-----   ---------------------------  -------------------- -o
Sub-Totat                         200850.8        0.0  200850.8        64.5      0.0    64.5            0.0       20.0
F. Pubtications
1. Studies and Reports           490.0         0.0     490.0         0.2      0.0      0.2           0.0        0.0
2. Informotlon Materalts          264.5        0.0     264.5          0.1      0.0     0.1           0.0        0.0
3. Bulletins and Journals       3091.3         0.0    3091.3          1.0     0.0      1.0           0.0        0.3
Sub-Total                          3845.8         0.0    3845.8          1.2     0.0      1.2           0.0        0.4
G. Publicity CaWpaigns             12306.9        0.0   12306.9          4.0     0.0      4.0           0.0        l.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           M7568.5   36315.3  811883.8          249.2    11.7   260.9             4.5       81.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. incentives for Staff             5060.0        0.0    5060.0          1.6     0.0      1.6           0.0        0.5
B. Fixed-term temp. staff         90218.1         0.0   90218.1        29.0      0.0    29.0            0.0        9.0
C. Travel Expenses                 10907.3    1746.7   12654.0           3.5     0.6      4.1          13.8        1.3
D. Office Supplies                     0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0           0.0        0.0
E. Other Operating Costs           82483.6      146.1    82629.7        26.5     0.0    26.6            0.2        8.2                    0
Totat RECURRENT COSTS             188669. 0    1892.8  190561. 8       60.6      0.6    61.2            1.0       19.0
Total BASELINE COSTS             964237.5   38208.1  1002445.6        309.6    12.3   322.1             3.6      100.0
Physical Contingencies           3978.8    1811.2    5789.9           1.3     0.6       1.9         31.3        0.6
Price Contingencies             95580.6    3798.0   99378.6          30.7      1.2    31.9           3.8        9.9                    cI
.... .. .... ............ ........................---------   -----. ..... ------------------------ -  ---- - - --- - --
Total PROJECTS COSTS             1063796.8@  43817.3  1107614.1       341.8    14.1    355.9            4.0      110.5
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -  11/3/1992  14:54



MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
NexS
Summnry Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                   Foreign Exchange
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997      Total          X    Amount
s==s=g-s===r==========Sss===sssss==2     3    3    *          ========r=s
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment
1. Coeputer Equipment           3340.0    4232.0    4245.0    3356.0         516.0    15689.0         72.4   11364.8
2. Training Center Equipment    2100.0    4200.0    4200.0    6300.0    4200.0   21000.0              80.0   16800.0
3. Gusl. Center, Lab & Other       0.0    1094.4    2188.8    2312.4         494.4    6090.0          80.0    4872.0
4. Audio Visual and Office       867.0    2736.0       144.0      147.0        0.0    3894.0          71.1     2767.8
Sub-total                          6307.0   12262.4   10777.8   12115.4    5210.4   46673.0              76.7   35804.6
B. Office Rehabilitation              0.0    1920.0    1840.0          0.0        0.0    3760.0           0.0        0.0
C. Technical Assistance
1. External Consultants         6357.0    3006.0    3306.2    2261.2    2635.6   17566.0               2.9      510.7
2. Consultants SEE              5000.0    5000.0    5000.0    5000.0    5000.0   25000.0               0.0        0.0
3. Studies and Surveys          3882.1    5668.0    4670.2    5642.9    4082.8   23946.0               0.0        0.0
4. T.A. to Enterprises         11810.2   11826.9   17603.6   18460.3   18700.3   78401.3               0.0        0.0
Sub-total                         27049.3   25500.9   30580.0   31364.4   30418.7  144913.3               0.4      510.7
D.  Scholarships                  88688.6   63349.0   82498.8   82498.8   82498.8  399534.0               0.0        0.0
E. Training
1. Programs for Enterprises    15468.0   16068.0   24118.0   24868.0   23818.0   104340.0              0.0        0.0
2. Staff and Internfl Cons.     3628.8    3994.3    3627.1    3051.0    2769.7   17070.8               0.0        0.0
3. Training for Becarios       18536.0   13240.0   15888.0   15888.0   15888.0   79440.0               0.0        0.0
Sub-total                         37632.8   33302.3   43633.1   43807.0   42475.7  200850.8               0.0        0.0
F. Publications
1. Studies and Reports           170.0      120.0      120.0       80.0        0.0      490.0          0.0        0.0
2. Information Materials          71.3       48.3       48.3       48.3       48.3      264.5          0.0        0.0
3. Bulletins and Journals        530.8      505.7      659.3      659.3      736.1    3091.3           0.0        0.0
Sub-total                           772.1      674.0      827.6      787.6      784.4    3845.8           0.0        0.0
C. Publicity Carpaigns             2916.9    1885.0    2885.0    1885.0    2735.0   12306.9               0.0        0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           163366.7  138893.6  173042.3  172458.2  164123.0  811883.8               4.5   36315.3
11. RECURRENT COSTS
N. Incentives for Staff            1060.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0    5060.0               0.0        0.0
1. Fixed-term temp. staff         14884.3   1742.1   1872.1   19864.9   19297.6   90218.1                 0.0        0.0
J. Travel Expenses                 2189.0    2460.5    2646.0    2813.1    2545.3   12654.0              13.8    1746.7
K. Office Supplies                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0
L. Other Operating Costs          16496.6   16512.4   16523.6   16548.6   16548.6   82629.7               0.2      146.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS             34629.9   37415.1   38898.7   40226.6   39391.5  190561.8               1.0    1892.8
Total BASELINE COSTS             19796.7  176308.6  211941.1  212684.7  203514.5  1002445.6               3.8   38208.1
Physical Contingencies           871.0     1452.0    1261.1    1375.8        830.1    5789.9          31.3    1811.2
Price Contingencies             3679.1    9987.4   20310.4   29066.9   36335.0   99378.6               3.8    3798.0
Total PROJECT COSTS              202546.7  187748.0  233512.5  243127.4  240679.5  1107614.1              4.0   43817.3                     °
       ----------=-g3=s============ ==========s3=s======== --===.====s= 3  -  -
Taxes                           3813.7,   3951.4      4290.8    4493.9    4522.3   21072.1             0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                5423.8   11038.4   10115.0    11783.1    5457.0   43817.3            100.0   43817.3
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  11/3/1992  14:54



0631W
LAM U    M   AMET    I  MUOlCtIVITY Iin EllfU PIOJCT
Usary AccOmta bv low
Totals Including Contingue ias                                         totals Includin  Contingenmies
1993       19%4       1995       196        1997      Total          1993       199         199        1996       199?      Tota
.............f..i.s..m.uaeu.nu.......s.SSeSSSa                                                   SS.SSUSUUUSSS*WU**SUUUlSSW3u...S
I. Congutr equipilma              3579.9    4694.7    4867.3        46011.6     644.6   11316.0            1.1        1.5        1.6         1.3        0.2       S.?
2. Training Cwenr Eqpipmet        2245.8    4657.3    4036.1        1513.2    5194.2   24441.1             6.7        1.5         1.6        2.4        1.7        7.9
3. Owla. Cuttr, . Lo I Othr          6.6      1213.?    2517.2    2757.7        611.4    71111.61          6.6        6.4        6.3        6.9         6.2        2.3
4. Audio Visual Ud Office          927.2      3034.2      165.6      115.3        6.6    4362.3            6.3        1.6        6.1         6.1        0.6        1.4
Sab-Taeta                            6152.9    13612.4   12460.2   14454.2    6449.6   53659.4                2.2        4.4        4.6        4.6         2.1       17.2
B. office *ehabilltatiun                0.6      2129.3    2116.6         6.6        6.6    4245.3            0.0        6.7        6.?        6.6        0.0         1.4
C. Technical Assistuuce
1. Eaterimi Cennatutam            6501. 1    3201.5    3641.9    2592. 7       3117.1   1955. 1            2.1        1.0        1.2        6.3        1.6        6.1
2. Cawultants KE                  56M2.      5120.9    4146.3    56761.9       NO6. 1    27417.7           1.6        1.7         1.3        1.6        1.9        3.3
3. Studies ad baveys              4260.4     6513.9    ff31.9       69611.71   515.2   23499.1             1.4        2.1        1.6        2.2        1.7         9.2
4. T.A. to Enterpries            12026.7    12491.4   19236.6   20947.6   22625.4   86M9.1I                3.9        4.0        6.2        6.?        7.1       27.9
Sab-total                           2790. 7    2792.7   33936.7   36220.3   36218.5  16176.9                  9.0        3.3       16.9        11.6       11.6      52.0
D. ScholarshIps                     90329.3   66906.2   90357.9   93101.2   97160. 1   436464.7              29.0       21.5       29.6        30.1       31.2      140.9
E. training 
1. Programs for Enterprlsea      15154.2   16913.8   26415.6   26244.6   261053.1   115436.4               5.1        5.5        6115       9.1        9.6       37.1
2. Staff min Interna  Cow.        3714.6     4213.7    3972.6       3465.3     3262.2    16632.7           1.2        1.4        1.3         1.1       1.6        6.6
3. training for leawiom          11613.9   1396.9   17461.5    16045.4    16713.1   37922.6                6.1        4.5        5.6        5.         6.0       23.6
Sib-Total                           36347.1    35173.3   47139.7   49755.4   56626.4  221094.6               12.3       11.3        15.A      16.0       16.1        71.0
f. Ptiblcatimns
1. Studis ad Newots                175.7       126.7      131.4       90.9        6.6      524.7           6.1        0.6        6.6        6.0        0.0        0.2
2. Inforatien Nateriols             74.9        52.1       54.6       56.6       56.1      29.6            6.6        6.6        6.6        6.6        0.6         6.1
3. Sulletina NW Joawnals           546.6       534.1      132A       746.3      667.6    3412.7            6.2        6.2        0.2        6.2        0.3         1.1
lab-total                             791.2       712.9      907.6      695".7     925.1    4232.5            0.3        0.2        6.3        0.3         0.3        1.4
6. PalIcity Cmpaiwi                  2970.9      1990.9    3159.3      2141.6    3221.3   13483.9             1.6        6.6         1.6        0.7        1.0        4.3
total IUVEITWUT COSTS              161394.2  1480090.7  1900462.6  197167.3  119611.6  696944.7              53.7       47.6       61.3       63.4       62.3      263.2
II. Itcummogu COSTS
A. Incentives for Staff              1679.6      1056.2    109.5.      1135.3     1177.3    5544.7            0.3        0.3        6.4         6.4       0.4         1.6
6. fixed-ter. tuqa. staff           15341.6    16643.2   20759.5   22833.1   23061.?  106579.6                4.9        6.6        6.7         7.3        7.4       32.3 
C. travel 1xpaW4s                    2229.5      2590.7    2396.11    3195.0      2997.9   13919.4            S.?         6.3       6.9         1.0        1.0        4.5 3
S. Office Sqipplies                     0.6         6.6        0.0        0.6        6.6        6.6           0.0        0.6        0.6         6.0        6.0        0.0    C
E. Other Operating Costa            16801.3    17446.2   18097. 7    13795.    19491.1  '90626.4              S.4        5.6        S.31       6.0        6.3        29.1     -
Total NtCIUIENT COSTS               35452.5    39736.3   4265.5    45959.6   46646.5  210669.4               11.4       12.1        13.3       14.8       15.6       67.7 
UUUS*SSin*SSSSflflUS*SS*SSlUfSflSSSflCSfl.....S*S                 .=v. ........ Sa~.Nn.....=alaSU.lU=3.===S ..W.smgsaStas .. ... .SS33
Total PROJECT COSTS                202546.7   137748.0  233512.5   243127.4   240679.5  1107614.1            65. 1      60.3       75.0       76. 1      773        355.9
.eusa..sees.SS.u.s...SUSS*S.*S.3*S*S*SUSSS..a...S MSUSW    Was"s l..33.u..lUS.  l*SUSS......S WUSSt
...  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valuas Scaled by 1000006.6  111311992  14:54         a



MEXICO
LABOR MARKET AND PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
HexS
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                                      Total
1993       1994        1995        1996       19"      N exS     USS
A. Productivity Enhancement           41966.7    45027.8    62773.9    64974.5    62952.8   277695.7           89.2
B. Labor Market Adjustent
1. Strengthening of SES             22939.2    26339.5    23855.6    22274.8    21889.1   117298.2           37.7
2. Retraining Program              109364.6    80789.0   102586.8   104686.8   102586.8   500014.0          160.7
Sub-total                            132303.8   107128.5   126442.4   126961.6   124475.9   617312.2          198.4
C. Info.. Policy & Inst.Str.
1. Labor Nrkt.lnfo.System           12930.5    13370.2    13140.5    12110.1        7930.2    59481.5        19.1
2. Inst. Strengthening              10795.7    10782.2      9584.3      8638.5      8155.6    47956.2        15.4
Sub-total                             23726.2    24152.4    22724.8    20748.6    16085.8   107437.7           34.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 19796.7   176308.6   211941.1   212684.7   203514.5  1002445.6           322.1
Physical Contingencies               871.0      1452.0     1261.1      1375.8       830.1     5789.9         1.9
Price Contingencies                 3679.1     9987.4    20310.4    29066.9    36335.0    99378.6           31.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                  202546.7   187748.0   233512.5   243127.4   240679.5  1107614.1          355.9
Taxes                               3813.7     395 1.4     4290.8      4493.9      4522.3    21072.1         6.8
Foreign Exchnge                     5423.8    11038.4    10115.0    11783.1       5457.0    43817.3         14.1
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 11/3/1992 14:54



-122 -                                           Annex 6
PROJECr COSTS
Technical Assisteme, Studies, SurvWes, nd Internal Con ultants
Co n nt/Activity                            Responsible    No.           Unit          Cost
Unit                                   Uss#OOD
Productivity Enhancement Camponent
........... ..................... .................. .....
Trsining of treiners                              DAO               m.0    Event
Inservice training of workers                    DAD            56,250.0 Enterprise             49,000
and supervisors
Technical assistance to enterprises               on0             7,770.0 Enterprises           10,300
Prototype designs of quaLity                      DAO                 2.1      ply                  85
control Lab.
Developm_nt of m_thodologies to                   DAO                 1.2      p/y                  SO
iaprove progrm and program
monitoring
IPC promoters                                     UPCS              715.0      p/y              19,075
Internal consulttnts                             DAD                119.0     p/y                3,257
Labor Market Adjustment Cofponent
..... ....... ........ ............... ..... ....... .....
Improve methodology to monitor                    DSNE                0.3     p/y                   13
distribution of equipment to
training centers
Develop Operating ManuaLs                         OSME                2 0      ply                  sO
Improve SEEs organization                         DISE               14.3     p/y                  572
Internal consultants                              DSNE              S.6      p/y                2.228
SEE              400.0      p/y               8,810
Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening Component
.............................................................
Updating and consolidation of                     DOE                 1.7      p/y                  70
DOE database
Information services for SEEs                     DOE                 3 .     p/y                  226
Information services for CIUO                     DGE                 8.2     ply                  494
Surveys                                           STPS/IWEGI
National employment                                                   3    Survey              1,162
National manufacturing sector                                         2    Survey              1,162
Enterprise worker                                                     3    Survey                697
Longitudinal survey                                                   2    Survey                387
Migration                                                             3    Survey              1 180
Hicroenterprise                                                       2    Survey              1.162
PROBECAT                                                              3    Survey              1,190
CIMO                                                                  2    Survey                493
Studies                                           STPS
Labor market studies                                                 16    Study                 579
Determinants of labor supply                                          3    Study                 159
Labor market modeL                                                    S    Study                 233
Regional and sector studies                                          25    Study               1.142
Evaluation of PROSECAT                                                3    Study                 132
Imp ct evaluation of CIMO                                             S    Study                 531
Internal consultants                              CGPEET            112.2      P/y               3.928
DOE                5D00     p/y                  893
External consultants                              CCPEET             11.6      p/y                 710
DOE                16.0     p/y                  213
Training Progrom for STPS
InternaL consultants                              CGPEET              6.1     p/y                  214
DOE                10.4     p/y                  363
External consultants                              CGPEET              2.7      p/y                 163
DOCE                5.6     p/y                  337
Project Managem nt
.............................
Internal consuLtants                              COPEET             30.0      p/y                 656
DOE                76.2     p/y                2 286
External consultants                              COPEET             20.3      p/y               1,221
DOE                 2.1     p/y                  128
.................................................................................................
Internal consultants
WPC promoters                                                     715.0      p/y              19,075
SEE consultants                                                   400.0      p/y               8,810
Other                                                             462 6      p/y               5 D15
Total external con ultants                                           92.0      ply               4,346
.................................................................................................
p/y * persWnyear



- 123 -                             Annex 7
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
TABLE 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENS
(Cn US$ million)
Bank                       Disbursed    Cumulative     Disb. as     Balance of
Fiscal    Quarter Ending    During        Amount       % of Total     Loan
Year                        Quarter
March 31, 1993         12.Oa         12.0                      162.0
93      June 30, 1993           4.0          16.0          9           158.0
Sept. 30, 1993         4.0          20.0                       154.0
94      Dec. 31, 1993           8.0         28.0                       146.0
March 31, 1994          8.0          36.0                      138.0
June 30, 1994          8.0          44.0          25           130.0
Sept. 30, 1994         10.0         54.0                       120.0
95      Dec. 31, 1994          10.0          64.0                      110.0
March 31, 1995         10.0          74.0                      100.0
June 30, 1995         12.0          84.0          48            90.0
Sept. 30, 1995         10.0         94.0                        80.0
96      Dec. 31, 1995          10.0         104.0                       70.0
March 31, 1996         10.0         114.0                       60.0
June 30, 1996         10.0         124.0          71            50.0
Sept. 30, 1996         8.0          132.0                       42.0
97      Dec. 31, 1996           8.0         140.0                       34.0
March 31, 1997          8.0         148.0                       26.0
June 30, 1997          8.0         156.0          90            18.0
98      Sept. 30, 1997          6.0         162.0                       12.0
Dec. 31, 1997          6.0          168.0                        6.0
March 31, 1998          6.0         174.0         100            0.0
al    Includes Special Account deposit of US$12.0 million and a portion of retroactive
financing of up to US$11.0 million for eligible expenditures incurred after July 1, 1992.



- 124 -                                 Annex 7
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
TABLE 2
WITHDRAWALS OF THE PROCEES OF THE LOAN
Amount of the
Category           Loan Allocated                 % of Expenditures
(expremd In                   to be finne
US$ equlvalent)
1. Equipment                   15,000,000    100% of foreign expendiur, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally,
excluding taxes
2. Office Rehabilitation         1,200,000    90%
3. Technical Assistance,
Temponury Fixed-Term
Staff, & Trining
a.  Studies, surveys, local  25,000,000    100%, excluding taxes
& foreign TA, staff and
consultant training
b. Temporary Fixed-term     18,000,000    100% until the agregate reaes US$4.5 million,
staff                                80% until the aggregate reaches US$14.0 million,
40% until the aggregate reaches US$16.0 million, and
25% for the remainder
c. Training of trainers      3,500,000    70%
d. In-service training of   11,000,000    35% until the aggregte reaches US$4.5 million,
workers and supervisors               25% until the aggregate reachs US$9.5 million, and
15% for the remainder
e. TA to enterprises         5,000,000    70% until the aggregate raes US$1.7 million,
60% until the aggregate reache US$3.0 million,
50% until the aggrepte reaches US$4.0 million, and
40% for the remainder
4. Stipends                    38,000,000    55% until the aggrogte reches US$16.0 million,
40% until the aggregate raches US$25.0 million,
25% until the aggregate reaches US$35.4 million, and
10% for the remainder
5. Training for the             25,500,000   100%, excluding taxes
Unemployed
6. Publications and Publicity    5,000,000    100%, excluding taxes
Campaigns
7. Staff Incentives, Trvel &    9,800,000    100% until the agregate reachos US$3.0 million,
Incremental Operating Costs              80% until the aggregate reaches US$7.5 million,
40% until the agrpte rache US$9.0 million, and
25% for the remainder
8. Unallocated                  17,000,000
Total                          174,000,000
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --------



-125 -                                              An=  8
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
AND IMLEMENTATION TARGETS
TABLE 1
KEY MONIrORING NDICATORS AND IMPLEWMETATION TARGETS
Activities                   Unit        1992    1993    1994 j  99S5   1996    1997    Total
Fhbucthdsy E_hncrent cDomponent                  ,        .__                                  _
______ now  _PC     _                 No.                           3        2                                 5
Inc   ____ number of pron_ _ _s       No.                         C100    125      1S5    170      170       170
Even  Total No.           2,674   2,724   3,944   4,074   4,104    17,520
Training coureo                  Totd No.                   1,680   1,680   2,560   2,650   2,680    11,250
Consulting  rvices               Total No.                    440     440      680     720     720    3,000
Technicala aistane               Tota No.                      54      54       54      54      54       270
Industri informadion services    Total No.                    SOO     550      650     650     650    3,000
Workers participating in:             WorkersCourse             28,960  28,960  44,320  46,200  46,560   195,000
Training courms                  Workers/Coure             20,160  20,160  30,720  31,800  32,160   135,00
Proce  conmulting events         Workers/Coure              8,800   8,800  13,600  14,400  14,400    60,000
Enterprise participating in:          Entpris/Event              9,584   9,609  14,539  15,069   15,219    64,020
Training courses                   eraprisesEvent           8,400   8,400  12,800  13,250  13,400    56,2SO
Consuting services               Etepriss/Event               880     880   1,360   1,440   1,440    6,000
Information services             Entaprises/Event             250     275      325     325     325      1,500
Technical assistance programs    Enterprise/Event              54      54       54      54       54      270
CostZrinsgby- enterprimse
Training of  iners               Percent                     30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0       30.0
Inservice taining to workers/superv.   Percent               65.0    65.0    75.0    75.0    85.0       75.0
TA services to enteprises        Percnt                      30.0    30.0    40.0    50.0    60.0       45.0
Total                         Percent                     56.0    56.0             66.0    77.0      66.0
Financing of prmoters            Percent                      2.0      4.0     7.0    10.0    15.0      20.0
Enterprises receiving odier sevices   Enterprises                4,228   5,789   7,750   9,246   10,347   37,360
Seminars                         Enterprises                3,850   5,350   7,300   8,800   9,900   35,200
Information srvices              Enteprise                    378     439      450     446     447    2,160
Labor Market Adjustment Componeat
Organize periodic regional meetings   No.                            2       3       5       5        5        20
Foml inw_ionetuon  cminis             No.                           32         _                               32
Prepare and disribute informaiion buldin   No.                     192     192     384      384     384     1,536
Revise, print and distribute SEE operaing   No.                      1                        1                 2
Job wekers inteviewed ad counsele     No.              258,000 278,000 300,000 322,000 347,000 373,000 1,878,000
Regimered vacancies                   No.              277,000 293,000 311,000 330,000 350,000 370,000 1,931,000
Job plcementB                         No.               77,000  83,000  90,000 113,000 121,000 149,000  633,000
Set up information windows in tbe SEE.    No.                       16      16                         1       32
Truining/retraining for displaed workers    Total No.   19,000  45,000  51,000 * 61,000 * 62,000 * 62,000  300,000
Clasroom traing                  No. of traines    16,000  40,000  40,000  48,000  48,000  48,000  240,000
In-plant taning                  No. of traie       3,000   5,000   11,000  13,000  14,000  14,000   60,000
Subjed to Scton 5.01 of the Iman Agreeme.



- 126-                                                 Annex i
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
AND IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
TABLE 1 (CONTINUED)
Activitie                     uni          I"       I"       194       "       1996    I"        T
Procure  -le-----y           for                           -10                                  150    -
training   cam "_                          _  _ __ _  _  __ _ _    _ _ _
Monitor and evaluate eqiipment program                                           1       T         1       1         4
SEE strengtheing
Perform institutionl andysis      No. SEEs                         8        8        8        8                 32
Insditute incentive system        Sytem                            1                                             1
Incorporate federal staff into Stat  Peroat of staff              25       25       25       25                100
social scurity regime
Conduct promotion campai          No.                               1        1        1       1        1         5
0norma on, Po acy nd  tAutso
Surveys
National Employment               No.                              1                 1                 1         3
National survey of employment,    No.                                       1                 1                  2
compensation, technology and training
Workers in manufacturing survey   No.                              1        1                 1                  3
Migration survey                  No.                              1                 1                 1         3
Microentrprie survey              No.                                       1                 1                  2
Retospective survey                                                         1                 1
PROBECAT                          No.                                       1        1        1                  3
CIMO                              No.                                       1                 1                  2
Labor market studies              No.                              3        4        5        4        5        21
Determinants of employment, wages  No.                             1                 1                 1         3
and productivity
Labor mariet model                No.                              1        1        1        1        1         S
Regionl and mecor studis          No.                              5        5        5        5        S        25
Evaluation of PROBECAT            No.                                       1        1         1                 3
Annual CIMO Operational Reviews   No.                              1        1        1        1        1         5
Evaluation of impact of CIMO      No.                                                1                 1         2
Mid-term review                   Rqxot                                      S       C
Publicatons
Labor review                      No.                              3        3        3        3        3        15
Monographs                        No.                              4        4        4        4        4        20
Annalr eport on die laborm mt     No.                              1        1        1        1        1         5
Laborstatis                       No.                              2        2        2        2        2        10
Bullefin on        nsal-riesand   No. of bullet                   12       12       12       12       12        60
labor o-
S    Start activity C - Compet activity



- 127 -                                                Annex 8
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
AND IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
TABLE 1 (CONTINUED)
Activities                   Units         1992     1993    1994      99S    1996    1997       Toal
Infonmation sy tim
Definition of set of ubort-erm    Document                         1                                            1
Conmi1ing ad updating of abort,   Document                         1        1       1        1        1         5
medium and long-run statitc
System development                 ystym                                             1                          1
EquipmeQtprocureent and           Percent of expend               41       20      13       13       13       100
installations (SET)
Communication network             Network                                   1                                   1
Links                           Links                            3        S                                   11
Distributed data bas              Dat Ban                                           1                           1
Data bae on the network         Dat BSas                         1        6        3                          10
Update DGE dat base (SIPRH)       Dat BRas                         1        1       1        1        1         5
Develop new modules and           No.                              2        1                                   3
operaionalize diem at local levels
(SEE.)
Develop modules for industrial info   No.                                  10                                  10
s)'stem
Procure and install equipment for  Percent of expand              16       28      28       28        0       100
PROBECAT and CIMO programs,
and DGE supplementary equipment
Human resources developmeat
Courses coordinaed by CGPEET      Train /course                  831    1,173    1,013     451      301     3,769
Trinoew                       487      533      549      394      301     2,264
C40Uree 1/                     91      130      113       S0       35       419
Courses coordinated by DGE (iclude Traineoscourwe              1,147    1,463    1,174    1,141    1,095    6,020
UPCs & SEE.)
Traineo                        544     744      424      419      448
Courses 15 59                           76       61       58       55       309
Prore audiovisual equipment       SET                             34                                           34
1/ Different courses are offered more dian one a year



_An  MARKET & PRODUrIVITY INHANCEMENTmI_192
START      END   k_                 M 9              1994 _   _9 13  _  1_    _19
TAUK NAM                     DATE      DATE  Q3   Q 4               Ql3 04101    Q2 0 3  0 4Ol|Q101 0   Q Q2 0310Q4 j1 QI0210 310 4 Q It                 02|Q10310
smvzvs ~~~~~~IsomA   ani3i IIIII
N6*mmd ZwA*Yjmad   ~lIGN2    12131J97
AUIY I"Ub SwIIy      =              _       9_   _  _UM
-hot_lim IZU                         12001/92   12_3M_
Du   igWqomv                          01/31/93   01_31193
;                           _~~~~~~~~M                .403 .,06OW93,o                                1>
1231313   12/31<93
A1993 swwy                            /0(3.9    12/Jl9.'
?muraa. u.k                           1Sf3M9   12Q3(94
a" mv4nww1d                           0113I19    0113111 
Mm" a_mMb                             12031M    1203119_
c  lm7sw,a                              /09)      121
IPIu w d    Tu Ak                     I(1"1/6   120Q19-
B.k uuwaspaov                         01131197   01I3197
Fumed                                 04M1197    MOW1h9
b          _aa"dAII                   12/3119    1213I_97
FIspy..s Cmp    Twh. & Tom IIMI93   1213° 
A  1994 Swnn'                           l(h9L9    12/3/194
P(wpwai u.k c                         I16t/93   12(31M13      _
Um.k %ifWwinsr                        0113119    01/31194 
FWdied                                04MSl194   000094                                                                                                                                    c
hIudabaab                             1231194   120119l
AI 196 swvwi                            Im(2is   /2/31*6
humiad.. work                         16219s   I 2ln1
Bwk mkAIu .vd                         01131196   0131196
FuMed                      ~~~~~~~04M1196   W21196
kC z.dai aabb                         12131196   12011_6
W.4un in MeabdinIm                         MMI    1201311
A  1993 S_  _                          10(019_  12131_9.
pruudswkI(011                                   1201/92
Umk nm4/auemid                        01131193   01131193 
FuMdw                                Of23   12W9
&lMgdaBU vdAb                         120013   12/31M9
pupamemWu.                            1091193   120119
a.k miwdaluo..d                       01/31/94   011119
FBdded                                04191194    61309
&GOb   ovdal"I                        I201194   12031J94
C. IMSNW-'                              10929    12/31/
Bank m4e&Wgwwd                        Slav"    01/31
Fidied                                06(0119    WW62
kimieb aveh                           12031196   1201196
palp 1 mfi                                                                                                                                                bilbony  P9



tABOR MARKET & PRODUCrIVITY ENHANCEMENTIMI/2
TASK NAME           ~~~~START    END       1992          1 93              3994              399               3996        1_397_                   991 _
TASK NAM                    DATE       DATE    21                                            _   _ 15   _ 0      l 1Q2  03104  011021031                01 0210Q310
AP 1uwady                               10/92                            __                ___                                                                      __
P3       waP k                        10301192   31231192     _
Bwj vWpwdlfQ 11 -                                  39V92S     O
Padded                                0 /04193   321_ /93
ainutaedeuwae f399197uuowyn           W109/941  30931
De6 _aea     e(mdb                    O0293   03/31_94
NGuM"& aVAk                           060Vl194   6W1194                 O__
5. IMswavv                             1)3"JN   011                                                 -  -  _  _  - _  _
eawadca waik                          1003194   I230194
3=k aa4vkwaup.pi                      03/30/tS   01/30195
Padded                                0333195   3129195
Fei  mw  fm                           osml/"   V9                                                          ____
BeC  mud_ ouf03/95   03/20                                                                                                       a                         .  _
_ 19_7 Sw%h96 ov0* _ _ _ _ _ ___
P#Pmwv.aWk                            10/01/96   12131/96
BDaLMiuwuasomd                        01/31/97   031/3197
Fwk%d                                 01/31/97   12131197
B__ ___ __ ___  __  ___  __ ___  __     019 3I197  03/33191
Isrdmde  avdabk                       06/939    01131191                                                  .       
hwdms_                                   ISigI 319 *ii                                  = =m     _____
A.   4 e Swa                            1091193   02_21/9_
Ptwadm wak                           1301193   12131193                         _0
Dmk mr4vicdapomvd                     01/33104   0V3t3394 
FaMd                                  071O194   W30*
Llcaui  avd*ek                        02115021115                                                      O)           _    
A  1997 Awwe.                           /0(021    0                                                                   -        - -           E
PauaDaJe _ _             _ wak        309    32f
3mb  t_f                              011311    O3l/3                                                                   O
Fid                                   @7/911f 01130w6
LUC     _ ral                         02/21197  @021217                         _C>i;
A  1994                                 10(t)"1   /2/31/= _ __94                                    _                                                                                  j
3mtmn4sw'mnmd                         01131/4   01131194
HS16d                                 04M194   e 091301_   _
_ Gm  aC    b                         312#31194   131__94
JM lS. wvp(3mwkIdwAde                   _1i    _W _-i                                                                                __
NA  *WMW                               U131f  03M1319
rm_                                   @07AM 12/, _
blGadi ovdal"                         0303/33   0Y3U36
tvdmwm        -  ~~~@40M9    0913W
PRODEWAT                                  309319  1213W    - _ = = _ = = =                                                       m _ _  T     __
A  l994 s'v. (am. 199 RAd*,. krWeJ      101       12/3094-
A 1953 ,                                *oI9   *. - _ _ _ _ _
?q.2E3                                        -_ -              -        ---                        --        -



- 130 -
KEY MONrIORING IDICATORS
AND IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
i C    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C~ ~ ~ ~ ~~...  ...  ..
3!111111111   11111   l-l-- --- -- --
Ii L.:IIIIIIII
t~~~~              -      4 
i1 I  I *a .  J 1:18i I%



LABOR MARKET & PRODUCTrVrrY _NHANC_MENT_____92
TASK l.lE                 START       END    TOTAL 4            13        |      1994                                                                     199 196  119
TASKNAu                    DATE      DATE    STUDIES    I   2 Q3              I Q2  |1 0 2  03  04 QlI Q2                      3      I  2 3 104 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4
STUMDES                                elA*It 41931 IW rR 
Labor Mwre SaWdis                     6144193   123197 16
199.                                01104193   12 9319 3_
1994                                01/03/94   12t30C94 3
1995                                01/0219    12a292. 4
1996                                01/02196   12t3! 96 3_                                                                         __
1997                                01/0V9i   12/31 -* 3
DuerG.ke.s of Labw Srnly              614*It3    12/31 n J3      _       __
1993                                0104/93   1213iS93 3
1993                                01/0 WSW I2/29   44____ _ _
1997                                01/2V/i   12131,97 3
Labw Mari Med"l                       @14193   12/31197 5
1993                                01/0R493   12131/93 3
1994                                01/03/94    WM%394 3
1991                                01)0219   1219  4                                                               
1996                                01/02M    12M3^96 3__ _ _ _
1997                                0IM21i   12Y31N7 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ = = = =
R_SmMWSedw See                        0130  12131197 2S              _===________________
1993                                011493   1213J093 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       
1994                                01/0394   12/3094 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _w
1995                                OIMW3   1212919 4_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
1996                                01/829    12V31U96 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
199                                011021i   12099z7 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Evale    of MOBECAT           * 1 /030    124131  3=__________
I994                                01/031     V094 12643_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
199s                                OlV02)  12M  3________
199__  0____       ___                        12031        _ 3 _                                                                                                                     N
1993                                O/8W/9!   12K3JJ93 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                     
1994                                U1/3M9   1280%9 3                                _ _ _ _                _ _ _@
Mim                       ud          I8d5 120*95 4_ _                                                                        _ _
19ff                                Ot1 1 I0311% 3_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
1997                                OIAWM    12031M 3                                                                                    
I99                                OIAW"j 12OM4__                                                                                            ___A
___                                       ----I-diI
Pu.d                                                                                                                                   Miim    C> Si.y



w ww
'-  *  0%
Ii                               [i;I  Au
[ Ut $   tT  Ii                             FIiT
p                  U
-.   .                I.                 9t'i
E
o                  -
I,                        -.    I2
a
jw           I.              I-                      I         -
.3
CA          1.1                                    *1
I                                           I        I
I.                   5                                     -
I       I.  .  I   a    *j%4E!                    .
'U if.i
ft.              p.



io-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
MEXICO
Sr4 \\<-t^s                                                                                     LABOR MARKET AND
es 1  < Q >c,          r---PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
3.
N           A              H I  U   A   U  A
0 ,.mipoI cities J  tO' 
Di,.idod highvwy,
lib"al S So~')tlx1^--So,Iod.
,4  Pw/c.pol cop,ti
-- Sot.. 6oundo,...
-   Im.-timal bo.dwo
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U{   I [A
e,6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
A /J.5                                                           i,uftA  Co.pe.
ast"§,  § iM olb M:; X ,i > ._._.-.i ~~~~~~~~:1CAM! C! _'~ 
FLs s aW 5W _ + l \ X / ~~~~~~.                        '                                  Vs
/             F~~~~~~~AIASCO   
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ooxouo  - -                    ~~~~~~~~~~~BELIZE
Acojod,    ~OAXACA                /      CHIAPAS
a  m  no 200 40D Soo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n.l utme
JAILES     tio               No                                                                 4                            / 0
r..       1t t.\o.                  JGUATEMALA    -
iqB  .i.ov.r .spo. no. a_                                                                                        Topoc"                  HONDUI
-109                                                      10. .                                                       ,,   . J



