Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3542 ME
                          Loan Agreement
        (Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                      Dated December 18, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3542 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1992 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a document dated November
19, 1992 from the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) describing
a program of actions, objectives and policies regarding the labor
market in Mexico (the Program);
      (B)   the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CIMO" means STPS's (as hereinafter defined) Multiple
Support Service Program to MSMEs (as hereinafter defined) (Programa
de Calidad Integral y Modernizacion);
      (b)   "CONALEP" means the Guarantor's National Professional
Technical Education School (Colegio Nacional de Educacion
Profesional Tecnica);
      (c)   "DGE" means STPS's (as hereinafter defined) General
Directorate of Employment (Direccion General de Empleo);
      (d)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Guarantor to the Bank containing timetables,
targets and indicators for implementation of the Project, as well as
containing reference to the matters to be examined during the
reviews referred to in Section 3.15 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (e)   "INEA" means the Guarantor's National Institute for
Adult Education (Instituto Nacional de Educacion para Adultos);
      (f)   "INEGI" means the Guarantor's National Institute of
Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia e
Informatica);
      (g)   "MSMEs" means private enterprises having as few as one
and no more than 250 employees;
      (h)   "PROBECAT" means STPS's (as hereinafter defined) Labor
Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitacion para
Trabajadores);
      (i)   "SECOFI" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Commerce
and Industrial Development (Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento
Industrial);
      (j)   "SEE" means a State Employment Service (Servicio Estatal
de Empleo) of the government of a State (as hereinafter defined);
      (k)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
      (l)   "SIAL" means STPS's (as hereinafter defined) Information
Center on Labor Market Issues (Servicio de Informacion Sobre Asuntos
Laborales);
      (m)   "SNE" means the Guarantor's and the States' (as
Page  3
hereinafter defined) National Employment Service (Servicio Nacional
de Empleo);
      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "State" means any of the states that constitute the
United Mexican States;
      (p)   "STPS" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Labor and
Social Welfare (Secretaria del Trabajo y Prevision Social); and
      (q)   "UPC" means an STPS Regional Productivity Support Unit
(Unidad Promotora de Competitividad) that is part of the
administrative structure of CIMO.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and seventy-four million Dollars
($174,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de
Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
Page  4
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                    Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                          Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for:
      (a)   the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the
Loan; and
      (b)   the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such
funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on
account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. The
Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out or caused to
be carried out by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the
Page  5
Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.15 of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records
                  and separate accounts for the Special Account,
                  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent
                  and qualified auditors;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
            (iii) furnish to the Bank certified statements of the
                  Special Account each month; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that, by 60 days after the Bank notifies the Borrower and the
Guarantor that withdrawals from the Loan Account for Categories (4)
and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement have reached an aggregate amount equivalent to
$25,000,000, the Guarantor shall have failed to furnish the Bank
with: (i) an evaluation, carried out under terms of reference (which
terms of reference have already been presented to and agreed with
the Bank and are dated November 18, 1992), of the impact and cost-
effectiveness of Part B.4 of the Project; and (ii) a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for completing implementation of Part B.4
of the Project in a manner that takes into account the results of
said evaluation.
      (b)   If the event of suspension set forth in paragraph (a) of
this Section occurs, and without prejudice to the Bank's other
remedies under the General Conditions, the Bank may only suspend, in
whole or in part, the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account for expenditures incurred under Part B.4 of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement shall have been entered into by the Borrower
and the Guarantor.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date March 18, 1993 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI)
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For the Borrower:
            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre IV, piso 8
            01020 Mexico, D.F.,
            Mexico
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the
day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
                  By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                  By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villarreal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 15,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Office refurbishing        1,200,000        90%
    and renovation
(3) Technical assistance,
    temporary fixed-term
    staff and training:
    (a)  Studies, surveys,    25,000,000        100%
         local and foreign
         technical assistance,
         staff training
         programs
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
    (b)  Salaries of          18,000,000        100% until
         temporary                              withdrawals under
         fixed-term                             this Category
         staff                                  have reached
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount equivalent
                                                to $4.5 million;
                                                80% until with-
                                                drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $14.0
                                                million; 40% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
Page  8
                                                valent to $16.0
                                                million; and
                                                25% thereafter
    (c)  Training of           3,500,000        70%
         trainers
         under
         Part A.4
         of the
         Project
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
    (d)  In service           11,000,000        35% until with-
         training of                            drawals under this
         workers and                            Category have
         supervisors                            reached an aggre-
         under Part                             gate amount equi-
         A.2 of the                             valent to $4.5
         Project                                million; 25% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $9.5
                                                million; and 15%
                                                thereafter
    (e)  Technical             5,000,000        70% until with-
         assistance to                          drawals under this
         enterprises                            Category have
         under Part                             reached an aggre-
         A.2 of the                             gate amount equi-
         Project                                valent to $1.7
                                                million; 60% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $3.0
                                                million; 50% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $4.0
                                                million; and 40%
                                                thereafter
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Stipends                  38,000,000        55% until with-
                                                drawals under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $16
                                                million; 40% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $25
                                                million; 25% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
Page  9
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $35.4
                                                million; and 10%
                                                thereafter
(5) Training for              25,500,000        100%
    the unemployed
    under Parts B.4
    and B.5 of the
    Project
(6) Publications               5,000,000        100%
    and publicity
    campaigns
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7) Incremental                9,800,000        100% until with-
    operating and                               drawals under this
    travel costs                                Category have
    under part C.7                              reached an aggre-
    of the Project                              gate amount equi-
    (excluding salaries)                        valent to $3.0
    and staff incentives                        million; 80% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to $7.5
                                                million; 40% until
                                                withdrawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to $9.0
                                                million; and 25%
                                                thereafter
(8) Unallocated               17,000,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               174,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor;
      (c)   the term "stipends" means stipends referred to in
Section 3.10 (a) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement; and
      (d)   the term "staff incentives" means payments pursuant to
the performance-based bonus compensation system for employees in the
SEE network, referred to in Part B.1 (g) of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$11,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (7) on
Page  10
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but on or
after July 1, 1992; (b) 24 mobile employment units under Part B.1
(d) of the Project, until the Guarantor furnishes the Bank with an
evaluation, showing results satisfactory to the Bank, of the
experience with the pilot units supported under the Manpower
Training Project financed by Bank Loan 2876-ME; and (c) staff
incentives under Part B.1 (g) of the Project, until the Guarantor
furnishes the Bank, no later than March 31, 1993, with precise
guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, for the operation of the
incentives scheme.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Guarantor in
promoting private sector led growth and in easing the costs of labor
mobility and labor market adjustment by: (a) increasing the
productivity and competitiveness of MSMEs; (b) reducing the costs of
hiring and job search and providing education and training
opportunities for displaced and unemployed workers; and
(c) improving the availability, timeliness and dissemination of
labor market information and, more broadly, the capacity to monitor
labor market changes and to design, evaluate and implement relevant
policies and programs in the sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Productivity Enhancement
1.    Consolidation and extension of the geographical and sectoral
coverage of CIMO by establishing and operating five new UPCs,
increasing the sectoral coverage of existing UPCs (by expanding
their activities in the manufacturing sector and entering into the
service and agro-industry sectors) and targetting UPC services to
cover MSMEs.
2.    Extension of the scope of support services provided to MSMEs
through CIMO by having UPCs facilitate: (a) the expansion of in-
service training undertaken within MSMEs; and (b) access by MSMEs to
specialized consulting services and information.
3.    Improvement of coordination among public entities that provide
support services to MSMEs.
4.    (a) Provision of training through CIMO to: (i) training
centers and independent instructors which modernize their course
offerings and have experience with or are in the process of
developing courses in critically needed specialties; and (ii)
instructors belonging to workers' associations.
      (b) Provision of equipment through CIMO to five training
centers in cases in which equipment to support training for a
critically needed specialty is not available in the area served by
a center.
5.    Strengthening the capacity of the UPC network by providing it
with temporary fixed-term staff to serve as promoters, small
libraries, computer equipment and technical assistance and by
developing an industrial information system and carrying out CIMO
promotion campaigns.
6.    Gradual privatization of the CIMO program, through provision
of incentives to private enterprise associations to promote
conversion of UPCs into privately-owned enterprise support centers,
such incentives to include the provision of technical assistance,
didactic materials and training of key private enterprise
association personnel in areas of management and organization.
Page  11
7.    Creation of five quality control laboratories which would sell
standardization, certification and quality control services to
MSMEs.
Part B:     Labor Market Adjustment
1.    Institutional strengthening of SEEs by: (a) revising and
reformulating their operational procedures; (b) systematizing and
computerizing their information systems; (c) forming local SEE
committees with employer representation; (d) providing SEEs with 24
mobile employment service units, essential office equipment and
additional telephone lines; (e) refurbishing and renovating their
existing office space; (f) improving, with the help of consultants
and temporary fixed-term staff, their capacity to monitor their
performance efficiency; and (g) introducing a performance-based
bonus compensation system for employees in the SEE network.
2.    Provision of technical assistance to support coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of activities at the SNE central level.
3.    Improve the quality and coverage of information on local and
regional labor markets collected, processed and/or generated in a
coordinated manner by STPS and the SEEs.
4.    (a)   Retraining, under PROBECAT, of unemployed workers,
through classroom training and in-plant training; and (b) provision
of stipends to the trainees covered by subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph.
5.    Introduction of a basic education and training program for
unemployed individuals not eligible for participation in PROBECAT
retraining, and provision of stipends to such individuals during
their training.
6.    Provision of small quantities of complementary training
equipment to private and public training institutions involved in
delivering the training referred to in Parts B.4 and B.5 of the
Project.
Part C:     Information, Policy and Institutional Strengthening
1.    Development and use of an information system that would: (a)
allow systematic analysis of the labor market and preparation and
evaluation of labor market policies and programs; and (b) encompass
the information systems referred to in Parts A.5 and B.1 (b) of the
Project.
2.    Design and carrying out of specific labor market surveys.
3.    Carrying out of an extensive labor market study and research
program.
4.    Strengthening and extension of SIAL through: (a) creation of
catalogues and a unified access system; (b) rationalization and
computerization of information gathering procedures; (c) creation of
a network system to gain access to existing databases in Mexico and
abroad; (d) extension of the existing stock of documentation through
subscriptions, acquisitions, transfers and loans; and (e)
publication of various periodic statistical bulletins, a journal and
occasional monographs.
5.    Continuous monitoring and evaluation of execution of the
Project and of its impact in terms of performance and productivity
of affected enterprises and in terms of efficacy and cost-
effectiveness of training modalities under the Project.
6.    Development and application of human resource development
programs including in-service training, long-term continuing
education programs and short-term study groups and scholarships for
STPS staff and UPC temporary fixed-term staff involved in CIMO and
for SEE staff.
Page  12
7.    Creation and operation, with temporary fixed-term staff, of
small administrative units within STPS that will provide Project-
related administrative support.
8.    Consolidation of STPS's labor market information system
through technical assistance and provision, installation and
maintenance of computer and communications hardware and software to
link STPS headquarters with SEEs, UPCs and the enterprise support
centers referred to in Part A.6 of the Project.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
           Date of Payment              Payment of Principal
                                        (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning April 1, 1998
     through October 1, 2007             8,700,000.00
________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
        Time of Prepayment                    Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
     before maturity                           0.20
     More than three years but
     not more than six years
     before maturity                           0.40
     More than six years but not
     more than eleven years
     before maturity                           0.73
     More than eleven years but not
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity                           0.87
     More than thirteen years before
     maturity                                  1.00                            S
CHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
Page  13
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
Page  14
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
