Page  1
                                              March 6, 1995
Mr. Martin Werner
Director General de Credito Publico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 9
03100 Mexico, D. F.
Mr. Federico Patino Marquez
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre IV, piso 8
01020 Mexico, D. F.
            Re: Loan No. 3542-ME (Labor Market and
                Productivity Enhancement Project) Amendment
                to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
Dear Sirs:
        Please refer to the Loan Agreement between
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated
December 18, 1992 (the Loan Agreement; as amended) and to the
Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the United Mexican
States (the Guarantor) of even date therewith (the Guarantee
Agreement; as amended).  We are pleased to inform you that, as
a result of your request and our recent discussions on the
subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and
Guarantee Agreement as follows:
LOAN AGREEMENT
Schedule 1
1.  A new paragraph 4 is hereby added at the end of said
Schedule to read as follows in its entirety:  þThe Bank may
require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures such as,
inter alia, those for consultant services under $100,000
equivalent per contract (in the case of consulting firms) or
under $50,000 equivalent per contract (in the case of
individual consultants), under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.þ.
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
Schedule
2.  Section II of this Schedule is hereby amended to read as
follows in its entirety:
    þ1.  In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the
Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the þGuidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agencyþ published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines).  For assignments estimated to cost
$500,000 equivalent or more, the Guarantor shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultantsþ services issued by the Bank, with such
Page  2
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  For
assignments estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent,
the Guarantor shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
    þ2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
for consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each, or to contracts for individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments of
contracts for consulting firms estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or above or for individual consultants estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments of
contracts for consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above or for individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.þ.
        Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating this letter in the spaces
provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in three
counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
                      Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
                  /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                       Acting Director
                    Country Department II
           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: /s/ Martin Werner
   Authorized Representative
Date: March 6, 1995
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By: /s/ Federico Patino Marquez
   Authorized Representative
Date: March 6, 1995
