6  -7 Z   /L 1          CIRCULATING COPY                   RESTRICTED
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS Dt                 Report No. P-80Z
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR THE SECOND JENGKA LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
AND FOR THE JENGKA FORESTRY PROJECT
April 29, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTICN AND DEVELOPWNT
REPORT AND RECOMMINDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED
LOANS TO MLIAYSIA FOR THE SECOND JENGKA
LAND SETTLENENT PROJECT AND FOR THE JENGKA
FORESTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to US$13.0 million to Malaysia to
finance part of the cost of the Second Jengka Land Settlement project
and on a proposed loan in various currencies equivalent to US$8.5 million
to Malaysia to finance part of the cost of the Jengka Forestry project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       Malaysia has made a considerable effort in the 1960's to promote
economic growth and to create employment through settlement schemes on
virgin forest land. The Jengka Triangle, which lies approximately in the
center of West Malaysia in the State of Pahang, is the subject of
M4alaysia's largest land settlement and regional development program to
date.
3.       The Bank has been associated with the program at every important
stage. Under the program, which was based on a master plan prepared by
consultants - Tippets-Abbot-McCarthy-Stratton and Hunting Technical
Services - and financed by a Bank technical assistance grant made in
1965, about 93,000 acres would be cleared of forest, planted with crops -
mainly oil palm and rubber trees - divided into holdings of about 10
acres each, and allotted to some 9,000 families. Physical and social
infrastructure would be established and a forest industry complex created,
The program would be carried out in three stages. In April 1968 the Bank
made a US$14.0 million loan (533-MA) to finance the first stage of land
settlement.  Progress on this first stage has been generally satisfactory.
4.       The second stage, which consists of two sub-projects - the
Second Jengka Land Settlement project and the Jengka Forestry project -
was appraised in August/September 1969. The matters to be discussed
during negotiations were reviewed by a Bank mission in February 1970 with
the Government, the Federal Land Development Authority (FLDA), the Majlis
Amanah Ra ayat (MARA)and the then unincorporated Sharikat Jengka Sendiriar
Berhad (SJSB). Both FLDA and MARA are independent statutory corporations.
FLDA was set-up to promote development and settlemnent of land in Malaysia&
MARA to generally promote economic and social development in rural areas.
SJSB is a subsidiary of MARA and was formed to carry out and operate the
Jengka Forestry project. Negotiations for the two proposed loans took
place between April 6 and 10 with Tan Sri Taib bin Haji Andak, Chairman
FLDA;  Raja M. Alias, General Manager, FLDA; Ishak bin Tadin, Deputy
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of National and Rural Development; Badruddir
Samad, Deputy Secretary, the Treasury; Ariff Othman, Treasury Solicitor;
and Mohd. Rasli bin Mohd. Nawi, Managing Director, SJSB.



-2-
5.       The proposed loans would be the twelfth and thirteenth for Malaysia.
The Bank also made a loan of US$6.8 million in February 1965 to the Public
Utilities Board of Singapore with the guarantee of Malaysia of which
Singapore was then a part (405-MA). The following is a summary statement
of the Bank loans to Malaysia, excluding the loan to Singapore, as of
March 31, 1970:
Amount
Loan No. Year              Borrower               Purpose        Bank Undisbursed
7US$ million)
210-MA    1958  Central Electricity Board   Electric Power    28.6         -
348-MA    1963  Malaysian Industrial          Industrial
Development Finance          Finance
Berhad (MIDF)                                  7.9     o.4
350-MA    1963  Central Electricity Board   Electric Power    51.1          -
434-MA    1965  Government of Malaysia        Irrigation         45.0    21.1
458-1MA    1966  National Electricity Board  Electric Power    31.5    8.7
500-MA    1967  Government of Malaysia        Irrigation         10.0     8.0
533-MA    1968  Government of Malaysia        Land Settlement   14.0    12.2
560-MA    1968  Government of Malaysia        Telecoimnunica-
tions            4.4      4.4
561-MA    1968  Government of Malaysia        Water Supply        3.6     3.5
579-MA    1969  National Electricity Board  Electric Power    11.5    11.2
599-MA    1969  Government of Malaysia        Education           8.8     8.7
Total (less cancellations)                           216.4
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                                  11.8
Total now outstanding                                204.6
Amount sold                    10.0
of which has been repaid      5.8                    4.2
Total now held by Bank                               200.
Total undisbursed                                              78.2
6.       The execution of projects financed under Bank loans has been
satisfactory and the rate of disbursement of these loans has been roughly
in line with expectations except for loan 560-MA,because of changes in
equipment specifications, and for loan 434-MA.,because of delays in complet-
ing the internal reticulation system and the water control scheme. The lat-
ter loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the new Closing Date of
December 31, 1971. Loan 348-MA has since been closed after cancellation
of an amount of US$62,000 for which an immediate use was not in sight.
Loans for electric power, telecommunications, ports, railways and highways,
education, agricultural credit and land settlement are expected to be
presented to the Executive Directors for their consideration during the
Fiscal Years 1971 and 1972.



-.3-
7.       IFC invested US$818,000 in M1alaysian Industrial Development
Berhad (XIDF) in conjunction with Loan 348-MRA and in addition has taken
part in three financing operations wiLuh i=IDF: in March 1966 IFC made a
loan to US$1,275,000 and an equity investment of US$284,000 in Tasek
Cement, Ltd.; in May 1967 it made a loan of US$2,451,000 and an equity
investment of US$1,016,000 in Nalayawata Steel Ltd. and in December 1969
it made a loan of US$1 ,250,000 and an equity investmeint of US$250,000 in
India-Malaysia Textiles Berhad.
PART II - DEiSCRIPTION OF TIM PROPOSED LOANS
8.       The two projects are closely related, but because of their
different nature, the different terms proposed for their financing and
because they would be carried out by different authorities, a separate
Bank loan would be made for each. This would also facilitate disburse-
ments, and project supervision. It is proposed that the two loans be
made to the Government, which would relend the proceeds of the loans to
the FLDA and the SJSB, respectively, on the same terms and conditions as
those contained in the Bank loan agreements.
BorrowJer:    Malaysia
Beneficiary: Land Settlement: The Federal Land Development Authority (FLDh)
Forestry:         Sharikat Jengka Sendirian Berhad (SJSB)
Purpose:     Land Settlement:  To cover the foreign exchange cost and part
of the local currency cost for the clearing
of about 32,000 acres of tropical forest,
the planting of about 16,800 acres of oil
palms, about 13,600 acres of rubber trees and
the settlement of about 3,000 families.
Forestry:         To cover the foreign exchange cost of deve-
loping a forest industry complex consisting
of a logging unit, a sawnnill, a plywood mill
and related facilities.
Amount:      Land Settlement: Various currencies equivalent to US$13.0
million.
Forestry:         Various currencies equivalent to Us$ 8.5
million.



-h -
Amortization: Land Settlement:  In 25 years including a 7-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning June 1, 1977, and ending
December 1, 1994.
Forestry:         In 12 years including a 4-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning July 15, 1974, and ending
January 15, 1982.
Interest Rate:                    7% per annum
Commitment Charge:                3/4 of 1% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.       A detailed description of the Second Jengka Land Settlement pro-
ject and the Jengka Forestry project is given in the attached appraisal
report entitled "Second Jengka Triangle Project - Malaysia", (PA-31a)
dated April 29, 1970.
Background
10.      Malaysia's economy and exports are heavily dependent upon agri-
culture, wrhich, including forestry and fisheries, contributes about one-
third of GDP, generates about 60% of export earnings and gives employment
in West Malaysia to over 50% and in East Malaysia to over 75% of the
population. However, agriculture has been very specialized with rubber
accountinig for about 55% of the value of all agricultural output. The
Government is aware of the need to diversify production within the agri-
cultural sector.  West Malaysia expects to become self-sufficient in rice
mainly as a result of the increase in production from the Muda and Kemubu
irrigation schemes. There are possibilities for the development of cocoa,
coconuts, animal feed and livestock. But opportunities for large-scale
production are best for rubber and palm oil, which Malaysia has the skills
and growing conditions to produce more efficiently than other countries.
11.      Forests account for about 65p and 75% of the respective land
areas of West and East Malaysia. Forest products generate about 18% of
total export earnings. Despite its importance and potential, development
of forestry and forest industries is still being carried out haphazardly
and inefficiently without regard for the sustained yield management of
the forests or for the country's future timber needs.  The forest industry
complex to be financed by the proposed Bank loan and the arrangements for
the marketing of Malaysian forest products, referred to in paragraph 20
below, are essential for the best use of the forest resources located on
land to be developed under both the Second Jengka Land Settlement project
and the envisaged third and final settlement stage of the Triangle. Fur-
thermore they are expected to lead through their demonstration effect to
a better utilization of forest resources elsewhere in Malaysia.



-5-
Second Jengka Land Settlement Project
12.      The project consists of clearing about 32,000 acres of forest,
planting of about 16,800 acres of oil palms, about 13,600 acres of rubber
and settlement of about 3,000 families.  In addition it includes the
farming of 700 acres for commercial scale crop diversification trials at
the FLDA Research Centre near thie Triangle. The project would bring the
total planted acreage in Jengka to about 58,00o acres leaving some 35,000
acres for the third and final stage of the Jengka Triangle Program which
is expected to begin in 1972.  The planting of both oil palms and rubber
trees takesinto account (i) suitability of soils within the project area
and (ii) forecasts of future prices for both crops. The Bank's forecasts
indicate a drop in present prices by the mid-1970's to a level of US$160*
per ton c.i.f. UK ports for palm oil and 16 US* cents per pound (London)
for rubber. Project earnings and settlers' incomes have been calculated
on these prices but the drop appears more likely to occur for palm oil
than for rubber. Based on these prices the economic rates of return are
estimated at about 18% for palm oil and about 11% for rubber.
13.      Each settler would be indebted to FLDA for the cost of his house,
clearing his house-lot and developing 10 acres of oil palm or rubber.
Interest at 62%, the standard rate on all FLDA schemes, would be charged
and capitalized during the development period.  The loans would be repay-
able over fifteen years commencing in the sixth year after palm planting
and the eighth year after rubber planting. Effective September 30, 1970
at the latest, FLDA will levy a cess on settlers on all FLDA schemes to
be applied to the recovery of management costs. This cess will be geared
to settlers' incomes and will vary with produce prices and the size of
settlers' holdings. Settlers would be required to sell all latex or palm
produce to factories or mills specified by FLDA and they would receive
payment from FLDA after deductions have been made for transport and pro-
cessing costs, loan service and other charges.
14.      The Federal Land Development Authority, which will execute the
project, has developed over the last 13 years almost 340,000 acres
throughout Malaysia on which 16,000 families have settled.  About 257,000
of the 340,000 acres were developed over the last six years. FLDA is
satisfactorily managing both the first stage Jengka project and some 80
other smaller settle.ment schemes. Its financlal management has not, how-
ever, kept pace with its rapid expansion and certain steps are required,
including the appointment of a Finance Director, to improve financial
administration and procedures. FLDA will carry out land clearing, oil
palm and rubber tree planting and maintenance for an initial period after
plantin.g. Construction of roads, provision of water supplies and of
various social services will be carried out by the appropriate departments
of Federal and State Government.
*These prices fluctuated between US$264-266 for palm oil and 21-22 US cents
for rubber during April 1970.



-6-
15.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$28.6 million,
including interest during construction. The foreign exchange component,
including about US$3 million of interest payable during the seven-year
disbursement period, is presently estimated at US$7.2 million or only
about 25% of the total cost. However, the proposed Bank loan of US$13
million would cover 45% of the total cost, thereby financing some US$5.8
million of local expenditures. This appears a more appropriate contribu-
tion by the Bank to the cost of the project in view of the key importance
of the project in Malaysia's development program, and the Bank's participa-
tion in financing local expenditures, which is considered justified in the
exceptional circumstances of Malaysia described in paragraphs 29 and 30
below. The remaining local costs would be met by government loans and grants.
16.      Contracts for land clearing and rubber tree and oil palm planting,
and for buildings and housing construction would be awarded after interna-
tional competitive bidding for contracts equivalent to US$50,000 or more.
However, since experienced contractors specializing in this work are avail-
able in Malaysia it is expected that local contractors will bid success-
fully for this work. Processing equipment, other equipment, materials and
supplies will also be procured through international competitive bidding,
provided the amount of the contract is equivalent to US$20,000 or more.
Goods manufactured in Malaysia would be accorded a preference of 15% or
the rate of customs duty, whichever is less.
Forestry Project
17.      The project would comprise a forest industry complex.to extract,
process and market lumber from the Jengka Triangle and after the mid 1970's
from the adjacent Tekam, Berkelah and Takai forest reserves. The complex
would consist of a mechanized logging unit with an annual extractive capa-
city of about 175,000 timber tons; a sawmill with an annual capacity of
about 42,000 timber tons; a plywood mill with an annual capacity of about
60 million square feet and ancillary facilities.
18.      The project would be carried out and operated by SJSB, a newly
set-up subsidiary of MARA, the statutory corporation which in 1966 was
made responsible for developing the timber resources in the Triangle. MARA
will be the largest shareholder of SJSB.  FLDA wrll be represented on SJSB's
Board of Directors and Executive Committee. Initially the project will be
carried out and operated by Cantrans Services (1965) Ltd., a Canadian busi-
ness and administration company with experience in forestry development,
under a management agreement with MARA which was signed in September 1969
after two years of negotiations. In return for a management fee of Can$1.7
million, Cantrans is supplying for a period of four years, starting October
1, 1969, consulting engineers, project management, purchasing, financial
and other technical services, and in general will establish and operate
logging and timber processing facilities in the project area. Cantrans
will also train Malaysians locally and in Canada with a view to their taking
over the operation at the end of four years.
19.      The cost of the project excluding interest on the Bank loan is
estimated at US$12.4 million. The foreign exchange component inclueinig



-7-
the Cantrans management fee is estimated at US$8.5 million or 68% of total
project costs and would be covered by the proposed Bank loan.  The manage-
ment contract had to be concluded and equipment had to be procured for the
project without delay, in order to avoid the loss of valuable timber in
land clearing operations. Payments for consultant's services from
October 1, 1969 to date are estimated at US$0.45 million. Equipment
contracts awarded after international bidding and already signed amount to
US$3 million, of which about US$0.3 is estimated to have been paid to date.
I believe it is appropriate to reimburse the Borrower retroactively for
these payments for management fees and equipment contracts. All remaining
equipment to be financed under the proposed loan will also be procured
through international competitive bidding, provided the amount of the con-
tract is equivalent to us$5,ooo or more.
20.      Jengka forest products are currently being marketed by East
Asiatic Company, the Mlalaysian subsidiary of a Danish company, under an
interim agency agreement concluded in Iarch 1970 with SARA.  This agree-
ment will remain in force until a long-term agreement is concluded. MARA
issued invitations in March 1970 for provision of long-term marketing
services and MARA's Board of Directors is considering several submissions.
Based on the recommendations of a UNIDO expert and Cantrans, the Directors-
designate of SJSB have proposed the appointment of East Asiatic. The
agreement would be for 10 years and would provide for the establishment
of a Joint Marketing Corporation owned equally by SJSB and East Asiatic.
21.      The project is estimated to show an operating profit in the third
year and a profit of about US$2.3 million in 1974, the first year of full
operation. SJSB's statement of sources and applications of funds shows an
estimated cash surplus of US$8 million by the end of 1974; annual debt
service on the proposed Bank loan would be covered 2.7 times by cash earn-
ings.  The estimated balance sheet at the end of 1974 shows that the debt/
equity ratio would be 43:57.
22.      The project would provide employment for about 1,200 people and
would systematically and efficiently exploit the forest resources in the
project area which would otherwise be wasted.  Some 60% of the production
is expected to be exported and would provide net foreign exchange earnings
estimated at US$32 million over the period to 1980. Based on project
earnings for the period up to 1980, by which time the processing machinery
would be near the end of its useful life, and on price assumptions which
are conservative in view of the almost inevitable future rise in tropical
hardwood prices, the economic rate of return is expected to be about 29%.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
23.      The draft Loan Agreement ( Second Jengka Land Settlement Project)
between Malaysia and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank and the FLDA, the draft Loan Agreement (Jengka Forestry Project)
between Malaysia and the Banc, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank and MARA and SJSB, the Report in respect of each loan of the Committee
r                                               *~~~~~~~~~~~-



-8
provided for in Article ITI, Section 4 {iii) of the Articles of Agreement
and the text of the respective Resiolutions approving the proposed loans
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
24.      The draft Loan and Project Agreements conform substantially to
the pattern of loan and project agreements used for projects of this kind.
Cne of the events specified as a condition of effectiveness under Section
7.01 of the Loan Agreement for the Land Settlement Project requires the
FLDA to appoint, or failing such appointments, to take measures satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the appointment of, a Finance Director
acceptable to the Bank.  The agreed purpose behind this provision is that
the FLDA should do its utmost to appoint a suitable Finance Director by the
anticipated Effective Datep but that if in the relatively shcrt time
envisaged, their efforts fail fcr reascns beycnd their control, the loan
cculd be made effective ncnetheless.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
25.      A report (EAP-11a) in which the current economic position and
prospects are reviewed was distributed to the Executive Directors on March
25, 1970 (R70-44).
26.      Despite wide year-to-year fluctuations as a result of changes in
world demand for her exports, Malaysia's overall growth was satisfactory
throughout the 1960's. GDP in real terms increased on the average by about
a year, because of strong investment and production trends in tree crops,
tin mining and timber extraction and progress in import substitution of
consumer goods. Population growth, on the other hand, was near 3% througb-
out the period. The main contribution to good economic growth came from
Malaysia's dynamic private sector, but the Government's development
activities also expanded substantially.
27.      At the beginning of the present decade Malaysia faces two diffi-
cult problems which have emerged in recent years despite the commendable
growth in output and income, namely unemployment and rural/urban income
disparity. Owing to the introduction of labor-saving methods in rubber
production, rubber estates are reducing the number of plantation workers.
Consequently unemployment is increasing particularly among young entrants
to the labor market. Through the 1960's the increase in rural income has
lagged substantially behind that of income obtained by the urban popula-
tion, partly because of the deterioration of the terms-of-trade for agri-
cultural products. The twin problems of unemployment and income disparity
could best be solved in the context of accelerated economic growth, which
will require more aggressive economic policies by the Government. The
task ahead is not easy. Lack of managerial manpower is already straining
investment activity in the public sector.
28.      It is important that Malaysia's development effort does not now
lose momentum when strong social pressures exist to relieve urban unemploy-
ment, to improve farm incomes and to stop the drift towards the cities of
the rural unemployed.



-9_
the rural unemployed. The Second Malaysia Plan (1971-1975), now being
prepared, should aim at establishing the policy objectives and criteria
for accelerated economic growth. Land and forestry development should be
a very important component of the Plan. The two projects now proposed for
Bank financing will make efficient use of Malaysia's main underutilized
resources, productive land an unemployed or underemployed labor, and
deserve the Bank's full support since they will contribute to both economic
and social objectives.
29.      The high prices for rubber and tin that caused a large surplus
in Malaysia's balance of payments last year are not expected to persist,
and in the case of rubber have already started to decline. Thus Malaysia
will most likely need a larger inflow of capital in the first half of the
1970's than in the past five years. Otherwise Malaysia would be forced
to cut back on development expenditures or to resort to a larger use of
external reserves than is compatible with her vulnerable export position
and the maintenance of her open economy. The Government should also be
able, through firmler fiscal policies, to mobilize more public savings;
however, public revenues have already been brought to a high level - 22%
of GNP in 1969 -, and it will take time to make the adjustments necessary
to assure a larger contribution to development expenditures.
30.      Meanwhile Malaysia confronts special difficulties in arranging
an adequate volume of external financing entirely on the basis of the
foreign exchange costs of development projects. The core of the public
investment program will consist of projects in such fields as land clearance
and settlement, education and highway improvements, which require relativel7
little foreign exchange but large local currency expenditures. Therefore
external financing for some local expenditures on high priority projects
is justified.
31.      Malaysia's debt service ratio is only 2% at present and is expected
to remain for some years below 5%. Malaysia is considered creditworthy for
substantial additional external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
32.      I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMiENDATIONS
33.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
April 29, 1970



