Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14963-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 17, 1995
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 12.87 Pesos (July 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
Non-Coffee Growing Regions: September I - June 30
Coffee Growing Regions: October I - July 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
INDOFANE National Institute of School Nutrition and Health
KfW          German Credit Institution for Reconstruction
MIS          Management Information System
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NEP          National Economic Program
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PA           Parents Association
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
SEEBAC       Secretariat of Education, Arts and Culture
SESPAS       Secretariat of Public Health
UNDP         United Nations Development Program



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................I
1. THE SECTORAL CONTEXT ..................................1
A. THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SETTING ..................................                                                              1
B. THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..................................1
C. EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM ..................................2
D. PLAN ACHIEVEMENTS AND INNOVATIONS ................................................................................2
E. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE ..................................5
F. KEY REMAINING ISSUES IN BASIC EDUCATION ...................................7
G. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR BASIC EDUCATION ............................................................                          12
H. RATIONALE FOR IBRD AND IDB INVOLVEMENT ............................................................ 13
2. THE PROJECT ............................................................................................................................................14
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................ 14
B. PROJECT TARGETING ............................................................ 14
C. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION ............................................................                                            15
3. PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS .............................................. 25
A.  PROJECT  COSTS  AND  FINANCING ............................................................                                  25
B. PROCUREMENT ............................................................                                                      26
C. DISBURSEMENTS ............................................................ 30
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ............................................................ 30
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION ............................................................                               32
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................ 32
B. PROJECT MONITORING AND REVIEW ............................................................                                    33
5. PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  AND RISKS ...................................................... 34
A. PROJECT BENEFITS ............................................................ 34
B. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ............................................................ 35
C. RISKS ............................................................                                                            36
6. AGREEMENTS  AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................                                  36
ANNEXES ..............................................................................................................................................................
1.   THE BASIC EDUCATION SYSTEM                                                                                                38
2.    LESSONS OF PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE - IBRD                                           .... .42
3.   FRAMEWORK FOR DECONCENTRATED MANAGEMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION                                                             . .44
4.    PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORSD....  45
5.   PROJECT COST SUMMARY                                                                                                       51
6.   PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT                                                                                               52
7.   TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT REVIEW AND SUPERVISION SCHEDULE                                                         .53
8.    EDUCATIONAL FINANCING: TRENDS AND PROJECTIONS                                           .       ... 56
9.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT                                                                                           61
10.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                ....62
11.   DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE IBRD PROJECT FILE                                                                              64
This report is based on findings of preparation missions that visited the Dominican Republic in November 1994 and March
1995, and of an appraisal mission in May 1995. The missions were composed of Mmes./Messrs. Pedro Saenz of the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and Eleanor Schreiber and Scott Quehl of The World Bank. Ms. Diana Gonazlez-Dagler,
international consultant and Mr. Mari6n Landais, local consultant, coordinated project preparation by a team of local and
international consultants in Santo Domingo. Peer reviewers are Mr. Michael Potashnik (World Bank, LA3HR) and Mr. Ariel
Fiszbein (World Bank, LA3C/). Mr Miguel Martinez and Mr.Lionel Ives Nicol are the Department Director (Understudy) and
Division Chief respectively, for this operation for the IDB, and Mr. Kenneth Lay and Mr Kye Woo Lee are the Director and
Division Chief respectively, for the World Bank.






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency:             Secretariat for Education, Arts and Culture (SEEBAC)
Beneficiary:                     Secretariat for Education, Arts and Culture (SEEBAC)
Poverty:                        Program of Targeted Interventions. School nutrition,
preschool expansion and physical plant components target
poverty groups based on income as well as nutrition and
facilities inventory data. On a pilot basis, private schools
serving low income families, are also targeted.
Amount:                          US$37.0 million equivalent
Terms:                          Repayment in 20 years including five years of grace
with interest at the IBRD's standard variable rate.
Commitment Fee:                  0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balance,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                  See Para. 3.3.
Net Present Value:              Not Provided. See Paras.5.6-5.7.
Map:                            IBRD No. 19599R
Project ID:                     DO-35494






1. THE SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. The Economic and Social Setting
1.1    During the 1980s, the economy of the Dominican Republic suffered serious internal and
external imbalances. The economic trough occurred during the 1990-1991 recession when GDP
declined by 6.8 percent and 1 percent, respectively. Social spending levels, already inadequate,
reached a low point at the same time. To reverse the trend, the Government initiated a
comprehensive stabilization program in 1990, the New Economic Plan. By 1993 significant
advances toward macroeconomic stability were achieved: inflation declined from 60 percent to
4.8 percent and international reserves increased from a minus US$198 millions to US$438
millions, accompanied by a reduction in the debt to GDP ratio.
1.2   Inadequate expenditure in the social sectors is reflected in key educational and
employment statistics: the average entrant on the labor force has completed only four years of
school; 20 percent of the adult population is illiterate, and, despite minimal barriers to labor
market entry, and a lack of strong unionization, formal sector unemployment is high, at about 25
percent in 1994. Levels of education and salaries for unskilled and semi-skilled workers are
among the lowest in the Caribbean. Low average basic educational attainment and productivity
also contribute to underemployment in the informal sector, accounting for 22 percent of the labor
force, and to a high degree of income inequality. The wealthiest 20 percent of the population
captures over half, and the poorest 20 percent only 4 percent of total income. Some 20 percent of
the population is estimated to be poor.
B. The Education Sector
1.3   During 1982-91, public expenditure on education as a share of GDP fell from 1.9 to 0.9
percent. Insufficient financing spurred severe deterioration in the basic education system'.
Meager salary and non-salary incentives led to teacher absenteeism, strikes, and the loss of
formally qualified teachers to other professions. The number of applicants to the country's
teacher training schools dropped from 2,400 in 1986 to less than 600 in 1991; and, in 1992, 15
percent of practicing teachers were untrained secondary school graduates hired to fill the gap.
Facilities development and maintenance, as well as provision of student and teacher learning
materials, also lagged far behind needs; heavy centralization and insufficient management capacity
within the Secretariat of Education and Arts (SEEBAC) exacerbated the problems. (Annex 1
describes the organizational and management structure in the education sector).
1.4   The impact of neglect on the coverage, quality and efficiency of basic education was
severe. In 1991, only 16 percent of five-year olds were enrolled in public preschool classes, the
majority housed in public primary schools lacking the requisite space and materials. An estimated
The basic edcation system in the Dominican Republic comprises I year of preschool, the primary cycle (grades I - 6), and the lower secondary
cycle (grades 7 - 8).



2
90 percent of the relevant age-group was enrolled in primary schools; this group was equally
divided between girls and boys. However, only half of approximately 950,000 children enrolled in
public primary schools, could expect to complete the primary cycle. Less than 25 percent could
expect to complete grade 8, the final year of basic education. Some 10 percent of children in the
age group 7 to 12 never attended school and annual repetition and dropout reached 18 and 16
percent, respectively, in 1991. (Annex 1). The lowest participation and completion rates were
found among that 65 percent of the population living in rural and peni-urban areas. Private,
mainly urban schools, which account for about 20 percent of students enrolled at the primary and
30 percent of students at the lower secondary levels, increased enrollments as a response to the
crisis in the public sector. However, many of these schools, which serve lower income students,
were equally constrained in terms of resources available to offer education of acceptable quality.
C. Education Sector Reform
1.5    Recognizing the high costs of neglect of human capital formation, Government and civil
society moved together to give priority to resolving social sector issues in recent years. In 1989-
90 civil society initiated a series of actions aimed at addressing pressing problems, focusing on
education. These actions progressed from protests, through dialogue, to consensus, crystallizing
in the Plan Decenal de Educaci6n (Ten-Year Education Plan)2. The Government, supported
closely by the UNDP, formalized the Plan in 1990.
1.6    The Ten-Year Education Plan (1991-2000) aims to expand service coverage, raise student
achievement levels, and strengthen sector management. Included are specific objectives to: (a)
increase public spending (including teachers' salaries) on basic education; (b) promote a set of
national education standards through curriculum reform and an assessment system; (c) provide,
systematically, appropriate educational materials and teacher and administrator training, both pre-
and in-service; (d) strengthen the SEEBAC by deconcentrating resources and responsibilities and
improving information systems; and (e) stimulate community participation in school development
and management. To support the execution of the first phase of the Plan, the Emergency Phase,
the IDB approved a loan in 1991 (US$29 million), in parallel with a complementary loan extended
by the IBRD (Loan 3351-DO, US$15 million). Both institutions plan follow-up operations to
support the implementation of the Plan's second phase.
D. Plan Achievements and Innovations
1.7    The Plan's implementation achievements to date have surpassed expectations. The
Government has more than doubled basic education spending since 1991. As expenditures increased,
enrollments rose (See Figure 1 below). The SEEBAC reports that enrollment in grades 1 to 8 climbed
9 percent during 1991-94, and repetition and dropout rates declined to 13 and I 1 percent, respectively,
between 1991-94. Overall completion rates at the primary level rose to 60 percent.
2  The development ofthe Ten Year Plan and its execution have incorporated broad individual and institutional participation (some 50,000
individuals and over 100 institutions) in a process of consultation among sector stakeholders, including the business community, NGOs, the
teachers' union and major political parties.



3
Figure 1. Expenditure and Enrollment
(Millions & Basic Education Spending -Indexed 1985)
I       R ea I BRs  ic Ed. Span d in g
|        1Z anrollm  ent (in M  iIiaons) |
2.5         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    1 .4
2                                                          1                          -  . 2
1.5                             ;                              >  I0.8
1                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.6
0.4
0 .5                                                          0.
0 
GD?    1 9 8 8 1 9 8 9 1 9 9 0  1 9 9 1 19 9 2 1 9 9 3 1 9 9 4 Enllmen
Source: CIECA; Central Bank & SEEBAC
1.8   In line with specific Plan objectives, a revised curriculum, which focuses on participatory
techniques in the classroom, was completed during 1994. Based on anticipated content of the revised
curriculum, about half of teachers in grades 1-8 received or are receiving six months of upgradirg.
Transitional textbooks and workbooks were also provided for all public school students and a national
assessment system introduced. Some 20 percent of primary classrooms, nearly 5,000, were also
improved or replaced. In addition, SEEBAC staff participated in initial training for deconcentrating
management, and parents associations (PAs) were established or strengthened at all primary schools.
The PAs assisted with materials distribution, routine maintenance and, in rural areas, a school nutrition
program.
1.9   The move toward increased expenditure on basic education represents an important
achievement under the Plan. This trend, reflected largely in improved teacher incentives, together with
other innovations in the areas of curriculum development, sales of materials, student assessment and
community participation, stand out as notable achievements of the first phase of the Plan.
1.10  Teacher Incentives. Teacher and administrator salary increases largely explain the increase in
public expenditure as a share of GDP from 0.9 percent to 1.9 percent during 1991-94. In view of
requirements for fiscal discipline, the Government agreed with the principal teachers union to a salary
structure which maintains a low base, averaging about US$1,000 per year, while providing a series of
bonuses which can triple pay. The bonuses are structured to serve as incentives, and include: an
increment between 7 and 32 percent of base salary tied to performance, between 10 and 40 percent
based on in-service upgrading received, and 20 to 25 percent for working in economically depressed
areas. Increases in base salary during 1991-95 resulted in a doubling of average teacher salary to about
US$2,600 including bonuses, by early 1995. This amount represents nearly four times the minimum
wage, and some 60 percent of the Central Bank's "Basket of Average Consumption" for a family of
four. The improved pay, together with the related opportunities for training, have reduced annual
attrition from the teaching force from 5 to 3 percent and boosted intake of preservice trainees to over
2,000 per year.



4
1.11   Curriculum Development. A new curriculum, developed independently of IDB and IBRD
project support, will be introduced gradually beginning in the school year 1995-96. It incorporated
broad involvement of national stakeholders from the education sector and civil society. It will replace a
highly mechanistic, teacher-centered curriculum, focusing, instead, on the teacher as facilitator. It is
designed to promote inquiry and interaction among students and is flexible enough to be adapted to
regional and local circumstances to promote equity in educational opportunity. Parental involvement is
also encouraged. The revised curriculum forms the centerpiece for the further strengthening of basic
education under the second phase of the Ten-Year Plan. Other educational inputs are designed to
support its successful introduction.
1.12  Sales of Materials. Under the Plan, the SEEBAC provided low-cost textbooks and student
workbooks for students in grades 1-8 attending public schools. In line with basic education policy,
textbooks are lent to students in the public sector and workbooks are sold at cost. In an innovative
move to defray charges for students unable to afford the associated costs, and to establish regular
income to cover a share of costs for basic and complementary materials production, the SEEBAC
began selling its new materials to the private sector in 1993. In 1994 it earned some US$2.5 million
from these sales.
1.13   National Student Assessment. The establishment of the national student assessment system
was another notable achievement of the first phase of Plan implementation. The examination, which is
administered to all students in grades 4 and 8 in both public and private schools, was developed largely
during 1991, using local resources. An extensive infrastructure bolsters the system: a central
committee selects examination items from questions submitted by teachers; a private firm prints and
seals the examinations, and SEEBAC district staff distribute the examinations, which are proctored by
committees of parents and teachers. The distribution of results allows administrators, teachers, and
parents to assess leaming outcomes for students, schools, and geographical areas. The system
measured achievement of grade 4 and 8 students in 1994, with about 30 percent of those examined
attending private schools. The assessment is widely supported by educators and parents as a useful
tool for disceming needs and promoting improvements in educational quality and student achievement.
1.14 Community Participation. The Ten-Year Plan gives emphasis to strengthening community
participation as a vehicle to improve educational equity and efficiency. Supported by the IDB and
IBRD-assisted operations, SEEBAC began by establishing and providing initial training to PAs in all
public schools. Authority to manage discretionary school funds and participate in limited decision-
making and evaluation was also delegated to PAs. PAs identified requirements and administered funds
for school rehabilitation and preventive maintenance, in some cases also providing labor. They also
managed a rural school feeding program, assisted with the distribution of learning materials, and, on a
pilot basis, monitored teacher and student attendance.
1.15  Based on results of a 1995 study carried out during preparation for the second phase of Plan
activities and related IDB and IBRD support, the impact of the increased participation by parents has
been positive and should be further encouraged and strengthened. The study incorporated focus group
interviews, school visits, and surveys in four regions. On average, PAs meet four times a year. Two-
thirds of attendees, averaging 125 parents per school, are women, while middle-income men with
secondary and post-secondary qualifications tend to assume leadership roles. Administrators,
educators, and parents agree that parental involvement has a positive effect on student performance and



5
attendance. They further agree that educators should retain authority for pedagogical content and
delivery.
E. Lessons of Experience
1.16  The experience gathered during the implementation of the first phase of the Ten-Year Plan, and
from the mid-term project reviews completed by the IDB and the IBRD in Januaiy 1995, highlight
several important lessons. These have guided design of the proposed project and center on: the
importance of broad consensus among Plan stakeholders, the need to consolidate and transfer Plan
management and related skills increasingly to the SEEBAC, and the need to ensure adequate financing
for basic education. Specific technical and sector-related lessons are also incorporated in proposed
project design. (Annex 2 provides an overview of lessons of experience under the current and earlier
IBRD-assisted education projects.)
1.17  Role of Project Stakeholders. Persistent and broad support by stakeholders in the education
sector accounts in large part for the successful implementation of Plan reforms. Strong public sector
commnitment, bolstered by a period of political and economic stability, represented a direct response to
the broader society's perceived need to strengthen basic education in the Dominican Republic. In
designing the proposed follow-up operations, an effort was made to incorporate the framework for
further and more systematic involvement of civil society, in particular in the monitoring of Plan results,
to enhance consensus-building and ensure adequate and effective public expenditure and sustainability.
1.18  Program Management and Coordination. The IDB and IBRD-assisted projects
represented a significant share of Plan activities and investment expenditures during 1991-95; and
competent project coordinating units contributed substantially to successful implementation.
Recognizing weaknesses in SEEBAC management capacity, the two project coordination units were
established to support the transfer of management skills to the SEEBAC while not relying directly on
its management skills for project execution. They were supported by strong leadership from the Office
of the Secretary, SEEBAC, local IDB staff and the UNDP, which is executing the IBRD loan.
Outcomes of the project management arrangements are in line with experience elsewhere: project
implementation has depended heavily on the coordination units. While substantial transfer of
management experience and skills to the SEEBAC has been achieved, sustainability will require a
further build-up of SEEBAC management capacity --at the central, regional and district levels.
Further, to ensure coordination and avoid duplication of effort, a single coordination authority is
needed. The proposed operations will thus be coordinated by a single unit which would support and
draw increasingly on regular SEEBAC managers and staff for decision-making and implementation
management.
1.19 Reliability of Expenditure. The recent rate of growth in total public spending on education has
outpaced the growth in GDP. The trend toward increased public expenditure on education, led by
teacher remuneration, is positive. However, some 30 percent of expenditure over the past three
years is attributable to allocations from a discretionary fund managed by the Presidency; and 90
percent of this fund is allocated for construction of schools on an ad hoc basis. This off-budget
funding needs to be institutionalized to provide a stable foundation for effective sectoral planning
and expenditure. It is, however, expected that the priority given to allocations for education, and
the social sectors more generally, would continue over the foreseeable future.



6
1.20  Component Effectiveness. Achievements in raising quality and efficiency of education
under the Plan are evident in the gains in reducing student repetition rates and increasing the
completion rate for basic education (para. 1.7). These outcomes generally confirm the
effectiveness of expenditure inputs under the Plan. The centrally provided inputs (e.g. materials,
teacher training and improved salaries, improved facilities and nutrition) have been complemented
by the important input of parent associations. This input at the school level, together with
widespread provision of results of the student assessment, is judged to provide added stimulus for
strengthened planning are accountability at the school level. In other areas, lessons confirm the
need for additional inputs. In particular, initial outcomes highlighted the need to incorporate
appropriate curriculum, didactic materials and school facilities to meet the special needs of
preschool education and multigrade classrooms. In line with Plan objectives to improve children's
readiness for primary school, an initial expansion of preschool places, from 29,000 to 54,000 five-
year olds (27 percent of the relevant population) was undertaken during 1991-94. However,
accompanying accommodations in existing facilities, teacher preparation and supporting materials
were not provided. Similarly, while a third of all primary schools, mainly small and located in
rural areas and peri-urban areas, cater to two or more grades within the same classroom, requisite
supporting inputs for effective teaching were neither developed nor introduced. Now identified,
these needs will be met during the second phase of Plan execution.
1.21  Private Schools for Low-income Students. The lessons of experience also suggest the
advisability of strengthening private as well as public schools in the effort to improve basic
education. Over 1,500 private primary and lower secondary schools operate in urban areas. The
majority of these schools serve low-income, urban areas. Growth in private school enrollments,
based on demand and parents' willingness to pay, helped to maintain the relatively high enrollment
ratio in basic education, around 90 percent, throughout the 1985-91 crisis in the public sector.
Some 750 private institutions are accredited by the SEEBAC and participate in Plan activities,
including teacher training and purchase of learning materials. These schools operate at a level of
quality comparable to, or slightly better than, public schools: 1994 results of the new national
assessment show scores of 71 percent and 63 percent for grade four and eight students,
respectively, in public schools and scores of 76 and 74 percent for children in the same grades in
private schools. However, nearly 800 private schools do not meet accreditation standards,
lacking trained teachers and other inputs, and an unknown number of small schools operate
informally in areas lacking public and recognized private schools. Improved information on these
unaccredited and informal schools, collected during Plan implementation, suggests that they
represent a cost-effective means to expand and upgrade basic education, in particular to better
serve rapidly expanding peri-urban populations. As a result, mechanisms to channel support to
these schools would be developed during the second phase of the Plan.



7
F. Key Remaining Issues in Basic Education
1.22   Despite the successful implementation of the initial phase of the Ten-Year Education Plan,
educational equity, quality and efficiency remain comparatively low. Further effort, to consolidate
and deepen achievements, is required under the second phase of the Plan to overcome continuing
deficiencies in educational effectiveness and management.
Educational Effectiveness
1.23   Conclusions on student achievement based on the new assessment system are premature
owing primarily to a lack of baseline data and initial weaknesses in examination design.
Notwithstanding recent improvements in coverage and efficiency indicators, however, the average
quality and efficiency of basic education in both public and private schools in the Dominican
Republic remain low. Educational inputs designed to strengthen outcomes of basic education are
still in transition and require further development and consolidation, notably in the areas of
curriculum, materials and teacher support. Problems of poor student nutrition and inadequate
school infrastructure also persist.
Curriculum and Educational Materials
1.24   The new curriculum (para. 1.11) represents a significant change from the highly traditional
curriculum it replaces. In line with experience gained under the Plan, it also includes, for the first
time, a program for the preschool year which emphasizes preschool and socialization skills to
prepare students for the first grade. The curriculum changes will need to be broadly disseminated
and incorporated in both student and teacher materials, and in teacher training, during the Plan's
second phase.
1.25   The transitional materials provided under the Plan were generally of good educational
quality. Each public-school student received textbooks and accompanying workbooks for
Spanish, social studies, mathematics, and science. The materials were developed by the SEEBAC
using local authors. Complementary classroom and school materials (e.g., maps, subject-related
posters, and other supplies) were also provided. Despite distribution of materials through an
independent public enterprise, delivery of materials suffered delay: some 5 percent of students
were not issued textbooks in 1994 owing to lack of clarity over procedures for collecting fees or
exempting students unable to pay (para. 1.12).
1.26  In order to support the introduction of the new curriculum, modifications in both teacher
and student materials, and new materials for preschool, will be required during the second phase
of Plan implementation. A permanent capacity, including sufficient qualified personnel, is also
needed within the SEEBAC to manage development and piloting of revised and new materials. 3
The systems for distribution and fee collection for educational materials also needs to be
improved, to ensure timely delivery to all teachers and students. In addition, small school libraries
3 The Government agreed to create a materials fund (Fondo Editorial) under the IDB's ongoing loan operation but has not yet institutionalized
this finction.



8
and complementary materials and supplies are needed, especially for rural and peri-urban schools
where students often lack access to reading materials other than basic textbooks.
Teacher Support and Availability
1.27  Longstanding problems with teacher and teaching effectiveness in the Dominican Republic
stem largely from past curriculum rigidities and inadequate incentives. Recent improvements in
these areas will require parallel changes in teacher training and supervision, and increased teaching
hours. Anticipated increases in enrollments will also require a substantial increase in the supply of
teachers for the remainder of Plan implementation and beyond.
1.28  Teacher Training. The formal requirement for qualifying as a teacher at the primary or
lower secondary level is completion of a secondary-level program at a normal school. About
7,500 primary school teachers lacked this minimum qualification in 1992; and the content of the
normal school program is poorly suited to the objectives of updated curricula through grade 8.
As a result, most teachers lack both subject matter knowledge and the pedagogical skills needed
for effective interaction with students and appropriate use of related educational materials. Under
the Ten-Year Plan, the SEEBAC thus introduced a post-secondary teaching certificate as the new
minimum standard for teacher training for basic education. Nearly 45 percent of practicing
teachers, about 13,000, will have completed this 72 credit program, offered through extension
services of local universities, by the end of 1995. The SEEBAC also provided training to upgrade
the qualifications of 5,000 teachers lacking the normal school qualification or equivalent. Both
programs were assessed favorably by participating teachers, who report they are using knowledge
and techniques imparted through the training. During the implementation of the second phase of
the Plan, all current teachers would complete the new certificate program. The training would
need to incorporate additional, specialized programs for preschool and multigrade teachers
(para. 1.20). The SEEBAC will also need about 4,000 additional preschool through grade 8
teachers by 2006 to meet objectives for enrollment and completion rates in basic education, while
maintaining the current teacher-student ratio. (Overall public enrollments in preschool through
grade 8 are projected to increase from the current 1.28 million to 1.52 by 2005). Each new
teacher will need to complete the new minimum qualification. The six normal schools which
currently provide pre-service training lack the capacity to meet that demand. The SEEBAC will
need to expand its links with qualified providers of training, mainly universities, to design and
deliver the required training, both pre- and in-service.
1.29  Supervision. In 1992 most supervisors were transferred from regional to district offices
and provided motorcycles to facilitate school visits. However, technical support for teachers at
the school and classroom levels is still limited. Teachers participating in the SEEBAC's in-service
training report high satisfaction with on-the-job supervision and support provided as part of the
training. Supervisors will need to replicate this model to support continuing improvements in
teacher performance. In addition, isolated rural schools are still neglected by supervisors, relative
to their urban counterparts, notably the 3,000 rural teachers involved in multigrade teaching. To
overcome this imbalance, the SEEBAC is increasing district staff and infrastructure, selectively.
Incorporation of school directors and community members in the process will also need to be
explored and pursued.



9
1.30  Classroom Hours and Attendance. The 684 hours of official in-class instruction per
school year in the Dominican Republic compares unfavorably with the 1,080 hours offered in
Guatemala, 1,040 in El Salvador, and 999 in Costa Rica. Classes are offered during two 3.75
hour shifts, with students participating either in the morning or afternoon. Over half of teachers
work both shifts: the teacher-student ratio averages I to 36 in the morning shift and 1 to 25 in the
afternoon, both satisfactory. In light of budget considerations, the SEEBAC has elected to delay
consideration of expanding the official length of the school day, which could preclude the teaching
of two shifts by the same teacher. Instead, its second phase Plan efforts would focus on
increasing the efficiency and quality of the class time currently available while establishing the
human and institutional resources necessary to extend the schools day for the period beyond
2000. The SEEBAC will, however, conclude already-initiated negotiations with the teachers
union to extend the school calendar an extra month while maintaining the current length of the
school day, providing students with about 70 hours of additional class time in the near-term.
1.31   Absenteeism among teachers dropped sharply with the recent provision of improved pay,
teaching materials, and in-service training. In addition, monitoring by selected PAs contributed to
increased teacher attendance. However, teacher and student absenteeism continue to reduce
effective class time during the school year. One teacher in five surveyed in 1995 reports frequent
absences or late arrival to school. The problem is especially acute in rural areas. The principal
reason appears to be distance from school: almost half of teachers surveyed live in a different
community than that in which they work. While reporting mechanisms are not fully developed,
school visits revealed that the rate of student absenteeism runs at about 10 percent, due to
distance from school, illness, and family employment obligations. In view of the shortfall in class
hours, continued effort to improve teacher incentives, and to increase monitoring of attendance of
teachers and students are warranted.
The National Assessment
1.32  The student assessment system introduced under the Plan requires adaptation to the new
curriculum. Refinement is needed to match question content with desired curriculum outcomes,
and to measure particular skills. The SEEBAC also needs to ensure that the assessment does not
discriminate against particular groups or lead teachers to focus on preparing students for the
assessment at the expense of key curriculum objectives: the examination is being used as a
determinant of promotion at grades 4 and 8. A danger exists that its use at grade 8, in particular,
could deter students from entering upper secondary school (grades 9-12). Use of the assessment
for promotion purposes thus needs to be carefully evaluated. Finally, the annual execution of the
assessment absorbs considerable teacher and administrator time. The contracting of all
administrative responsibilities to a private firm would increase costs dramatically, since much of
the testing apparatus at the school level depends upon donated labor from teachers and parents.
The recent establishment of a small, permanent staff within the SEEBAC, capable of hiring
consultants and contractors at rates more attractive than regular civil service salaries, provides a
reasonable compromise and should allow the SEEBAC to manage the assessment system more
efficiently over the long-term.



10
School Nutrition
1.33  According to a 1994 SEEBAC study, as many as 27 percent of students suffer from
stunted growth, I in 5 suffers from anemia, I in 4 from vitamin A deficiency, and half from iodine
deficiency. Rates of malnutrition are highest in the poorer areas of the country: along the Haitian
border, in peri-urban zones and in isolated rural communities. The SEEBAC, currently supported
by the European Community and the World Food Programme, manages a school feeding program
for about 80,000 primary school children along the Haitian border; meals are prepared by parents.
The Plan, also initiated an urban nutritional supplementation program for 100,000 students. This
comprises distribution of a school snack--fortified milk and locally manufactured biscuits.
School-based deparatisation is currently being piloted. Some interventions have not proceeded as
rapidly as planned under the Ten-Year Plan, including a school nutrition information and
education program. To contribute to improved student achievement and attendance, the existing
and new efforts will require expansion and careful monitoring and evaluation to ensure proper
targeting and cost-effectiveness. SEEBAC district staff supporting school nutrition also require
strengthening.
1.34  School Facilities. In 1990, the SEEBAC classified 30 percent of its 21,000 classrooms
used for basic education as requiring only preventive maintenance, while half required minor
rehabilitation work, and 20 percent needed complete replacement or major rehabilitation. During
the last five years the Government, with both its own resources and those provided through
international agencies, rehabilitated 2,700 classrooms; and replaced or heavily rehabilitated about
2,200. As a result, about 60 percent of all classrooms now require periodic maintenance, 30
percent need minor rehabilitation, and another 20 percent need replacement or reconstruction.
The Presidential Fund financed most of the classroom replacement and major rehabilitation. The
SEEBAC used IDB and IBRD loan financing to undertake minor rehabilitation and to initiate
preventative maintenance, covering 15 percent of the total need. The IDB and IBRD programs
for minor rehabilitation and maintenance have both featured decentralized resource allocation and
PA management of related funds. Materials and independent supervision are provided by the
SEEBAC. For routine maintenance, labor is provided by the PAs while minor rehabilitation is
contracted by the PAs.
1.35  According to the SEEBAC's 1995 national school inventory, an average of 61 students
use each classroom per school day in two shifts, which is satisfactory. However, half of schools
offering preschool services lack appropriate classroom space, often occupying part of a classroom
in use by a primary school class. In addition, the SEEBAC estimates that overcrowding will
become acute over the next five years, owing to planned expansion of preschool classes, growth
of the school age population, demographic shifts to peri-urban areas, and improved completion
rates for basic education. In light of these pressures, the SEEBAC estimates that it will need to
construct 2,600 new classrooms between 1995 and 2000, an increase of 12 percent, complete the
rehabilitation of existing classrooms and institutionalize regular maintenance and minor
rehabilitation, incorporating the PAs.



11
Management Effectiveness
1.36  Despite selective improvements in SEEBAC's management structure and capacity under
the Plan, problems of heavy-centralization, poorly qualified staff and incomplete communications
and information continue to detract from management effectiveness. Enhanced community
participation shows potential for improving accountability at the school level, but will require
further development.
1.37  Structure and Responsibilities. Under the Plan, the SEEBAC took steps to devolve
responsibilities for school and teacher supervision to regional and district offices and
administration of school maintenance resources to those regions and districts participating in the
IDB and IBRD-supported projects. Nevertheless, the majority of administrative and resource
allocation decisions remain with the central SEEBAC, and, for capital spending, the President's
office. Sub-national SEEBAC offices and schools lack the human and financial resources and the
administrative mandate to respond to local initiatives.
1.38  Through a consensus-oriented process involving representatives of the teachers union,
opposition parties, and civil society, the SEEBAC submitted to Congress in April 1995 a
proposed Education Law, intended to establish the framework for deconcentrated management.
Annex 3 provides a summary of the proposed framework, within which (a) day-to-day
management and investment decisions would be devolved downwards, (b) planning,
programming, and budgeting would flow from bottom-up, and (c) standards, monitoring, and
financing would be provided from top-down. Congressional approval of the proposed law
remains to be determined. Irrespective of the outcome, the SEEBAC has launched a gradual
process of deconcentration. Further progress will require additional planning, training, and
equipment, as well as further study and preparation. Particular emphasis needs to be placed on
improved systems and procedures for programming and budgeting. Apart from the proposed
Law, a National Consultative Council for Education has been convened. This council, with broad
representation, would monitor sector targets to leam from experience and advise the SEEBAC
regarding possibilities for improvements and corrections.
1.39  Administrative Staff. The SEEBAC has initiated training for administrators, focusing
on supervisors and school directors, as well as central staff, under the Ten-Year Plan. A masters
degree program is currently being provided for 100 middle-level administrators, and some 400
regional and district staff have participated in short seminars. However, this training has been
insufficient to support system-wide improvements, especially to clarify responsibilities and reduce
duplication of effort between the central and lower administrative levels in the early stages of
deconcentration. The SEEBAC plans to overcome these deficiencies by delineating staff
responsibilities and providing related management training on a regular basis. It is also
considering establishment of a number of small, semi-automous agencies responsible for many key
functions. These entities, which would report to the Secretary, SEEBAC, would incorporate
rather than duplicate SEEBAC functions, e.g. for management of in-service training. They would
be able to compensate a small but highly qualified group of staff at higher than regular civil
service salaries. Currently, only the Institute for School Nutrition and Health (INDOFANE), has
been formally created, while a national textbook authority (para. 1.26) awaits approval.
Informally, the SEEBAC's National Assessment Division is operating along the proposed lines.



12
Other semi-autonomous entities would be considered should the proposed Education Law be
approved.
1.40 Management Information System (MIS). A new MIS, featuring some 40 sub-systems,
currently links the central SEEBAC and most of its regional and district offices. To introduce the
system, the SEEBAC provided all regional and some district offices with computers. Of note are:
an educational statistics system; a new payroll management system, which delivers paychecks to
teachers and administrators on time, eliminating a lag of two to three months; a system to track
students, not yet fully developed; and a school mapping system, which assesses schools' physical
needs in light of demographic trends, location, and building condition. A subsystem to monitor
student achievement, promotion, repetition, and dropout, based on the national assessment, is also
being developed.
1.41  Despite these achievements, the MIS requires further development in several key areas:
geographical coverage, integration, and applicability to the daily tasks of administrators. The
coverage of the system is incomplete; not all district offices are integrated into the MIS, leaving
the SEEBAC poorly informed about the isolated rural and peri-urban schools it most needs to
assist. Integration across sub-systems is poor, reducing usefulness, and information is not
accessible to administrators lacking computers and computer training. Improvement of the
coverage and relevance of the MIS would require investments in technical assistance, hardware
and software, and the incentives to use them above the school level. It would also require
simplification and improved means of communication for use at the school level.
1.42 Community Participation. The Ten-Year Plan emphasizes the importance of community
participation as a means to strengthen educational services and accountability. To this end, the
SEEBAC has supported the formation of PAs, expanded their responsibilities, and given them the
authority to manage public funds. It is expected that increased mobilization of PA support would
lead to participation in school planning and financial management activities, as well as enhanced
parental support for children's education outside of the classroom and increased support by
NGOs, municipal governments, churches, and the business community. To date, however, the
extent of PA involvement has been limited largely to participation in management of school
maintenance, assistance with the distribution of materials and, in the rural areas, assistance with
school feeding. To increase PAs contributions to school planning and management will require
increased support and preparation as well as SEEBAC's willingness to enhance responsibilities.
In particular, training to encourage more active women's participation needs to be provided. A
clarification of desired areas of involvement, e.g., expansion of the pilot to monitor teacher and
student attendance, as well as systematic support and preparation of PAs will be required in the
next phase of development. SEEBAC's district community participation facilitators, currently
serving as many as 100 schools each, will need to be increased and prepared to support the
process.
G. Government Strategy for Basic Education
1.43  Through the Consolidation Phase of the Ten-Year Education Plan the SEEBAC plans to
pursue its coverage, quality, and efficiency objectives for basic education during 1996-2000. This
second phase of the Plan will entail: (a) increasing public spending on basic education, including



13
raising education allocations as a share of government spending to match the 1970 rate of 16
percent, augmenting public education spending as a portion of GDP to the 1970 level of 2.9
percent., and raising the 1995 rate of recurrent expenditure on basic education from US$102 per
student to US$124 by the year 2000; (b) further improving educators' economic and professional
standing by providing in-service training opportunities and increasing the average teacher's pay
from US$2,600 (60 percent of the Central Bank's "Basket of Average Consumption") to
US$3,400 (80 percent of the Basket) by 2000, based on incentives for training, experience,
performance, and work in economically depressed areas; (c) enriching effectiveness in the
classroom, through curriculum reform, universal distribution of learning materials, expanding
preschool and nutrition services, and upgrading school facilities, (d) strengthening the SEEBAC's
management capacity and responsiveness to local needs through training, better information
management, and deconcentrating resources and decision-making responsibilities to regions,
districts and schools, and (e) expanding parental support for their children's education and
involvement in school management. (This strategy is embodied in Plan documents as listed in
Annex 1 1).
,1. Rationale for IBRD and IDB Involvement
1.44   Consistent with both the World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for the
Dominican Republic, discussed by the IBRD's Executive Directors on May 2, 1995, and the
Assistance Strategy set forward by the Inter-American Development Bank, the Government
recognizes that continued improvement of social services in general,4 and basic education services
in particular, is essential for laying a sound foundation for social stability, sustained economic
growth, and the alleviation of poverty.
1.45   In view of both banks' support of the first phase of the Ten-Year Plan and their
experiences elsewhere in the basic education subsector, the Government has requested the
support of both institutions for the Plan's second phase. Given that the proposed project would
account for less than 15 percent of the Government's planned expenditures in the education
sector from 1996 to 2000), the particular value-added of the banks' further participation would lie
in the consolidation of policy and plan implementation efforts, with a focus on assuring adequate
educational quality, overall sub-sector efficiency, and improved monitoring and evaluation in the
future.
4   Support has also been provided for other social sectors. Efforts to institute a social investment fund gained momentum in 1993 and 1994, and
the IDB approved a related loan, in November 1994. Upon the signing in 1994 by the Government, NGOs, and 16 political parties of a poverty
reduction agenda, the Reforma Social y Combate a la Pobreza, the Government petitioned the lDB, World Bank, UNDP, and Pan American
Health Organization to assist it in the preparation of a health sector reform grounded in wide stakeholder participation. The reform would
reconfigure the social security and public health systems, promote integration of public and private services, introduce alternative financing
mechanisms for service delivery, and reallocate health expenditures to preventive and primary care for the poor.



14
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1   The proposed Basic Education Development Project would support a share of the
Government's development and investment program for basic education for the period 1996-
2000, as reflected in its basic education strategy. Objectives would be to: (a) improve the quality
of basic education; (b) increase enrollment and especially completion rates, with priority directed
to children from low income families; and (c) strengthen technical and resource management
capabilities for basic education. The first two objectives would be pursued through an
educational development component and the third, through a management development
component. Critical targets for reaching objectives are set forth in monitoring and evaluation
indicators for the Plan (para. 2.24 and Annex 4).
B. Project Targeting
2.2   The proposed project would benefit all students attending public schools offering basic
education services. However, several components would be targeted to children from low-
income families in areas currently least-well served, i.e., in peri-urban and rural areas. The
targeted districts have been identified through a national nutrition census (supported under the
current IBRD loan) and income data obtained through a 1994 poverty study (prepared by the
IDB). Information provided through the 1995 physical plant census complements these studies for
the facilities subcomponents. The targeting criteria and procedures would be incorporated in
detail for each relevant subcomponent in the operations manual under preparation for the project,
which would be completed as a requirement for loan effectiveness. Targeted subcomponents and
related selection criteria are:
(a)   provision of school supplies and expansion of preschool education places for
children in the poorest half of districts, measured by average income (paras. 2.7c
and 2.13);
(b)   provision of complementary school materials for all multigrade schools (typically
located in poor communities) (para 2.7 c);
(c)   expansion of the school-feeding programs along the Haitian border and in marginal
urban areas, based primarily on updated data on nutrition status of children,
complemented by income data (para 2.1 11);
(d)   expansion and improvement of school facilities in the 40 percent poorest districts
in line with the school planning inventory (para 2.12); and technical and financial
assistance for private, peri-urban schools serving children from families in the two
lowest income quintiles (para. 2.16).



15
C. Component Description
2.3   The educational development component (US$82.8 million, including contingencies)
will (a) assist the SEEBAC to introduce the revised national curriculum for basic education
(US$3.4 million); (b) institutionalize the provision of updated educational materials, including
texts and workbooks for all public school students, sales to private schools and provision of
complementary materials and supplies for low-income students (US$12.4 million); (c) provide
training for about 12,600 teachers, school directors and supervisors in core subjects and teaching
techniques (US$8.6 million); (d) improve the student assessment system (US$3.1 million); (e)
strengthen the SEEBAC's capacity to design and manage expanded school nutrition programs
(US$3.5 million); (f) rehabilitate or construct 6,800 classrooms, including 1,000 to be used for
preschool, and finance preventive maintenance for 4,900 schools based on a cost-sharing
arrangement between PAs and the SEEBAC (US$48.1 million); and (g) support a pilot program
to upgrade private schools serving low-income students (US$3.7 million).
2.4   The management development component (US$16.7 million, including contingencies)
would include, within the context of gradual deconcentration of responsibilities, training, technical
assistance, and equipment to: (a) strengthen SEEBAC management procedures and
administrators (US$3.6 million); (b) improve and extend use of management information for basic
education (US$4.0 million); (c) extend the roles and capacities of parents associations in decision-
making to the areas of school planning, performance and monitoring (US$2.1 million); and (d)
support monitoring and evaluation of basic education, including the project (US$2.6 million).
The project would also finance the Project Coordination Unit (US$4.5 million) and an IDB
supervision and inspection fee of US$0.5 million.
2.5   Component A: Educational Development (US$82.8 million equivalent, including
contingencies). This component would provide inputs to strengthen school effectiveness. It
would improve equity by increasing coverage and targeting low-income children, and efficiency
by raising the quality of education and the share of students completing basic education.
2.6   A.1: National Curriculum Reform (US$3.4 million, including contingencies). The new
curriculum is designed to promote children's participation in the learning process based on revised
pedagogical techniques and integration of subject matter around relevant themes. To support its
introduction, the component would include the following:
(a)   Promotional Campaign. Information, consisting of bulletins, posters, and
seminars, would be prepared and distributed to promote curriculum transformation
and assess the level of acceptance. The campaign would be directed at educators
and community members with an interest in basic education.
(b)   Curriculum Implementation. The SEEBAC would coordinate a program of
technical assistance to be provided by international experts to a cadre of
curriculum promoters responsible for preparing district supervisors. The
supervisors would then support groups of directors and teachers at each school to
introduce the new curriculum. These groups would also orient other interested



16
community stakeholders on the new curriculum. The central SEEBAC would
provide the schools with sample syllabi and lesson plans for the preschool year
through grade eight in each subject area. The curriculum promotion would
correspond closely with Educational Materials and Resources and Human
Resources Development subcomponents of the proposed project (paras. 2.7 and
2.8). Each school's curriculum group would also attend inter-school and inter-
district workshops and receive guidance through radio programs (offered through
an educational radio training network already in place) and video productions on
lesson plan development. During the first year of project implementation, the
SEEBAC would focus on the promotional campaign and the institutional
infrastructure needed to carry out the transformation. Years two and three would
serve as a period of transition, as schools introduce the new curriculum, while the
movement from transition to full implementation would occur during years four
and five.
(c)   Monitoring and Evaluation. District supervisors would also be in charge of
reviewing and monitoring progress with use of the new curriculum at the school
level, with support from regional and central supervisors. To support
implementation, the SEEBAC would also coordinate training sessions, produce
manuals for teachers and parents, and distribute materials and equipment for
curriculum resource centers in regional offices, including support for establishing
new resource centers. It would produce an extensive guide for managing the
curriculum changes, intended for central, regional, and district promoters and
supervisors. The guide would include plans for monitoring the curriculum
transition process. The project will also support local curriculum innovations
selected by the SEEBAC and managed by the schools' PAs. The SEEBAC would
manage a national review to evaluate progress of the curriculum transformation
during year three of the project. In-service training for teachers would further
support this process.
2.7   A. 2: Educational Materials and Resources (US$12.4 million, including contingencies).
Supported by this component, the SEEBAC would undertake the following:
(a)   Textbooks, Workbooks, and Teacher's Guides. All children enrolled in public
schools offering basic education would be provided with textbooks and workbooks
in the core subjects of mathematics, science, social studies, and Spanish under the
new curriculum. Workbooks would be used for one school year and sold to the
students at cost. Sales, including sales to the private sector, would be used to help
cover costs for students unable to pay, based upon simple income criteria to be
applied by school managers and PAs. Accompanying teachers' guides would be
made available by grade and subject. Separate preschool materials would be
developed and provided to all preschool students.
(b)   Supplementary Learning Materials. The SEEBAC would also provide
supplemental reading materials, consisting of an educational newspaper issued
once per school-month, promotional literature for improved childhood nutrition,



17
and materials designed specifically for use by multigrade schools. The component
would support the development, printing, and distribution of materials for a period
of three years, with the exception of the nutritional and multigrade materials,
which would be financed for five years and one year, respectively.
(c)   Classroom Materials and Supplies. The component would finance provision of
classroom equipment packages, including maps, a globe, and charts for all public
schools offering basic education, as well as additional supplies, materials and
equipment tailored to the needs of preschool, multigrade classrooms, and schools
offering grades 5 through 8. In light of the system's dearth of reference materials,
mini-libraries, containing 25 to 100 books, would also be established for preschool
and grades 1-8. To reduce school costs for poor children, the project would
furnish them with notebooks, pencils, erasers, and other standard supplies.
(d)   Institutionalization. Technical assistance and computer equipment would be
provided under the project to support the establishment of SEEBAC's educational
materials entity. The agency would coordinate design, production, and distribution
of educational materials. Comprised of a small number of well-qualified staff, it
would continue to contract development, production and printing outside the
SEEBAC. The proposed operation would also assist the SEEBAC in arranging
for private storage of materials using proper inventory management techniques and
distribution to district offices through competitively contracted private firms.
Once delivered to district offices, materials would be turned over to PAs, which
would be responsible for distribution at the school level. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the educational materials entity would be
established within 12 months of the date of loan effectiveness.
2.8   A. 3: Human Resources Development (US$8.6 million, including contingencies). To
improve teaching quality, the project would assist the SEEBAC to provide three complementary
training programs. As under the first phase of the Plan, the training would be delivered mainly
under contracts with national universities.
(a)   In-Service Certificate Training. Nearly 5,100 teachers with normal school or
upper secondary qualifications, and selected supervisors, would pursue the 72
credit Education Certificate, the minimum standard for all teachers in basic
education for 1998. This emphasizes subject-matter upgrading in mathematics,
social studies, social sciences and language arts (Spanish) and teaching techniques
which support the new curriculum.
(b)   In-Service Advanced Training. An advanced studies program would be
provided for about 3,800 teachers and school directors who have already
completed the Education Certificate. The program would allow them to pursue a
32 credit Associates Degree which focuses both on building general pedagogical
capacity and attainment of a specialty e.g., for preschool, multigrade or special
needs teaching; or for school management. Supervisors would participate in this
training. This program would also train a cadre of teachers and administrators for



18
leadership positions, offering an additional 32 credit university degree program for
2,000 educators and additional 32 credit masters degree to 400. The in-service
training certificate and advanced training incorporate classwork, on-the-job follow-
up and supplementary support through use of radio programs. The SEEBAC
would continue to link salary incentives to completion of these programs and to
performance evaluation on-the-job.
(c)   Pre-Service Training. The SEEBAC would also develop and introduce a pre-
service curriculum for teacher-training, equivalent to the Certificate Program, for
up to 1,300 pre-service teaching candidates over the project implementation
period. It is expected that the training would be provided under contract, by
universities though normal schools could compete.
2.9   To assure coherence and integration between the training programs and the local
suppliers, the project will assist SEEBAC's Training Division to develop capacity to work with
university and other centers of expertise to develop standards and further develop content for
teacher-training which support the new curriculum and pedagogic techniques.
2.10   A. 4: National Student Assessment (US$3.1 million, including contingencies). To
strengthen the new assessment system, the project would provide technical assistance to improve
and monitor quality as well as dissemination and use of results.. The guiding principle for the
assessment would be to enhance its usefulness as a diagnostic tool to measure achievement in line
with objectives of the new curriculum. The practice of using teachers to prepare questions would
be continued. Early dissemination of results to educators, administrators, parents, and
communities for use at the school level, and monitoring of security and cost-efficiency would be
priorities.
(a)   Institutional Strengthening. The project would provide technical assistance and
training for staff of the National Assessment Division of the SEEBAC. The
support would help to increase the capacity for developing, producing,
distributing, administering and evaluating test results. This training would include
on-site technical assistance and internships abroad with educational testing
services. The component would also provide printed test materials during project
implementation.
(b)   Improving Design and Quality. Improvements in the design and quality of tests
would also be realized through the provision of training for teachers who propose
questions for the assessment. Training for personnel of the National Assessment
Division would also be designed to improve their capacity for question analysis.
(c)   Studies. The project would include several surveys to explore school and non-
school variables which affect student achievement in the Dominican Republic.
Results would feed into decisions on teaching requirements. Additional study
would be supported to assess the advantages and disadvantages of using the
assessment for diagnostic and promotion purposes, the current SEEBAC practice
(para. 1.32).



19
2.11  A.5: School Nutrition Programs (US$3.5 million, including contingencies). This
component would improve children's learning capacity by expanding the nutrition and health
interventions initiated earlier by the SEEBAC. Specific objectives would include: (a) improving
the nutrition and health status of poor, school-aged children by reducing currently pervasive iron
and vitamin A deficiencies, alleviating hunger, and reducing parasitic infections; (b) promoting
improved nutrition and health practices affecting school-aged children; and (c) strengthening
capacity for developing, implementing, and evaluating school nutrition and health programs. The
component would support activities in five distinct areas, as described below. In addition, it
would incorporate school nutrition and health in the new curriculum.
(a)   School Feeding. School feeding programs would be expanded by the
Government to reach 300,000 school children. Under the project, the programs
would be strengthened to improve impact and decrease the need for external
assistance. Support would cover (a) administrative inputs, (b) training, particularly
aimed at community level participants and SEEBAC personnel, and (c)
development, implementation, and evaluation of alternative food products for
school feeding.
(b)   Micronutrients. The project would provide iron and vitanin A fortification of
school nutrition rations under the feeding program. To address micronutrient
needs among children not participating in school feeding programs, the component
would help to develop and test an iron and vitamin A supplementation program
through schools.
(c)   Deparasitation. Based on the results of an ongoing pilot program, a school-based
deparasitation program would be expanded by the SEEBAC in collaboration with
the Secretariat of Public Health (SESPAS). All children participating in school
feeding programs are expected to be covered by this program through the
SEEBAC.
(d)   Institutional Strengthening. By providing support to the newly-created Institute
for School Nutrition (INDOFANE), the component would increase the capacity
for developing and executing school nutrition and health programming. The
support would include local and international technical assistance, training of
INDOFANE personnel, and studies on children's nutritional status and needs and
on cost effectiveness of particular interventions.
(e)   Information, Education, and Communication Programs. The component
would continue the development and implementation of the programs started
during the Plan's first phase. Support would include training, development of
materials for school and community use to be provided through the proposed
educational materials entity (para. 2.7.b), and monitoring and evaluation of student
nutrition status.



20
2.12 A.6: School Facilities (US$48.1 million, including contingencies). The project would
provide for expanding and rehabilitating about 6,800 classrooms; materials for preventive
maintenance for 4,900 more; and limited construction of new classrooms. Excluding
maintenance, the component would benefit 330,000 students in grades 1 to 8 and 40,000
preschool students (about 30 percent of the relevant age group), and would account for 30
percent of the SEEBAC's physical plant investment requirements through 2000. Specifically,
support would be provided for:
(a)   Building 70 new classrooms in 40 multigrade schools which currently do not meet
minimum standards;
(b)   Rehabilitating 1,600 and replacing 400 classrooms in about 420 schools which are
in an advanced state of deterioration;
(c)   Repairing 5,125 classrooms in 1,500 schools which are structurally sound but
suffer from inadequate maintenance; and
(d)   Providing financial transfers to PAs to provide preventive maintenance to the
4,900 classrooms (US$300 per classroom per year), which have been improved
under Ten-Year Plan.
Outside of the project, the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) also plans to assist with
upgrading of school facilities in two of the country's poorest regions during 1996-2000. A loan of
the order of US$10 million is being considered.
2.13  In line with targeting criteria to be employed (para. 2.2), 1,000 classrooms for preschool
education would be included in these sub-components. The project would also provide 1,000
classrooms lacking furniture with desks (both for teachers and students), shelves, book cases, and
chalk boards.
2.14  Beyond use of targeting criteria and results of the 1995 facilities inventory, determination
of which schools receive rehabilitation or classroom replacement would be devolved to the district
level, with input from plans developed by PAs and SEEBAC district community participation
technicians. Regional PA councils and SEEBAC authorities would similarly coordinate decisions
on new classroom construction. Schools would base preventive maintenance decisions on plans
developed by their respective PAs and school directors, based on SEEBAC guidelines.
2.15  The SEEBAC would contract firms to carry out classroom construction and replacement.
To avoid past problems with the quality and transparency of such work, the SEEBAC would also
contract private firms and individuals to perform supervision. To attract supervisors for works at
isolated rural schools, supervision contracts would combine such schools with more accessible
urban ones. For minor repairs and maintenance, PAs would continue to identify school
improvement requirements, contract materials from local retailers, and provide labor and
supervision for the work. The SEEBAC's Department of School Supervision would provide
technical assistance to support this effort, which would also incorporate works supervision.



21
2.16 A.7: Pilot Program to Support Private Schools Assisting Low-Income Populations
(US$3.7 million, including contingencies). This component, designed as a pilot, would initiate
public support for private schools serving low-income populations. The pilot would be guided by
the SEEBAC's Department of Private Schools but executed through NGOs.
a)    Providing School Inputs. The SEEBAC would identify and retain NGOs with
experience in community assistance to identify schools to be upgraded based on
population served. PAs and school directors at these institutions would prepare
school development plans for NGO and SEEBAC review. It is expected that
educational improvements would consist of the same inputs to be provided under
the project to public schools, e.g., school materials and supplies for students and
teachers, and teacher training through the SEEBAC programs. In the pilot phase,
however, facilities improvements would be limited to minor works and provision
of technical assistance on space use (e.g., to improve ventilation, lighting) and
maintenance.
b)    Institutional Support. To ensure effective implementation, monitoring and
follow-up, technical assistance and training would be provided for SEEBAC's
Department of Private Schools. A new private school management information
system would be strengthened and integrated into the SEEBAC's to provide
improved census and base-line educational and other data. Based on experience
under the pilot, proposals would be developed for broader support for private
schools.
2.17 Component B: Management Inputs. (US$16.7 million equivalent, including
contingencies). The management component would support the gradual deconcentration of
SEEBAC responsibilities and strengthen the effectiveness of resource use in the sector. It would
further support monitoring and evaluation of the Plan, and selected studies.
2.18  B.1. Institutional Strengthening and Staff Development: (US$3.6 million, including
contingencies). The project includes technical assistance and training for SEEBAC administrators
designed to strengthen key planning, programming, budgeting and implementation support
functions. All of the SEEBAC's 91 senior management staff, 1,400 technical staff, and directors
of schools with more than 600 students would participate. Specifically, the component would be
composed of the following:
a)    Management Support. The project will provide technical assistance and
equipment to the SEEBAC to develop improved management procedures and
processes focusing initially on budgetary, accounting and financial systems. It
would also finance a study to support administrative deconcentration.
b)    Establishing Continuous Training. Managers of administrator training and
SEEBAC training staff would be prepared by consultants during the first year of
the project to design and deliver or contract training and on-the-job support for
strengthening of management procedures and practices, e.g., in the budgeting area.



22
Training would be organized by theme and delivered in one or more three-day
workshops conducted in district, regional, and central offices, and supplemented
using radio. Visits to schools and offices undertaking innovative best practices
would also be organized. Training would be organized to correspond with regular
tasks of the administrators. Follow-up would be provided by the SEEBAC
training staff and consultants, and selected supervisors, in the case of school
directors.
2.19 B.2: Management Information System. (US$4.0 million, including contingencies). The
MIS component is designed to strengthen communication linkages within the SEEBAC and
between the SEEBAC and schools, and to extend and integrate the use of the various new
information systems developed under the Plan.
2.20  The component would link the central SEEBAC to sub-national offices, schools, and
communities by:
a)    Completing an already-initiated telecommunications network (telephones and
computers) linking central offices to the SEEBAC's 11 regional offices, 81 district
offices, and the 504 schools serving more than 600 students; and telephonic links
with other schools where such links are available.
b)    Installing a one-way radio communication system for 700 small rural schools, to
make possible more efficient diffusion of educational and management material for
teachers and directors. The feasibility of developing a fully interactive radio
system for rural areas would be explored by a pilot project involving 190 rural
schools in three regions.
2.21   The component would also complete the modernization of the central SEEBAC's data
processing systems. It would integrate all SEEBAC units, including semi-autonomous entities,
into the MIS, consolidating and adapting for appropriate use at each administrative level the main
sub-systems of the SEEBAC (para. 1.41). Computer equipment and software would be provided
to link all district offices and larger schools to the MIS. The SEEBAC has ascertained that these
700 schools have the resources to cover 30 percent of investment cost (about US$0.5 million) and
would be expected to contribute. Much information would continue to be collected at the school
or district levels, and transferred to the central SEEBAC, where it would be processed and
disseminated in easily understandable formats.
2.22  These measures would aid the SEEBAC to use effectively a wide variety of data including
school and student data, assessment data, and financial management data. The linkages should
also facilitate bottom-up flows of key information. Consistent with the SEEBAC's commitment
to improve staff qualifications with regular training, the component would provide MIS training
for all SEEBAC staff at the central, regional and district levels and all school directors.
2.23  B.3: Community Participation (US$2.5 million, including contingencies). Community
participation is a central element of the Ten-Year Plan, incorporated in most project components.



23
The community participation component would serve to bolster the capacity of the parents
associations to take greater advantage of their role at the school level. It would seek to deepen
PA involvement in school planning and monitoring through the following sub-components:
a)    The establishment, by the SEEBAC, of a National School for Community
Participation, a 'school without walls" intended to integrate PAs more fully into
the basic education system's planning, management, and evaluation. The program
would be administered by the SEEBAC's Directorate of Community Participation
and provide organizational and leadership training to parents elected by peers to
serve as the PAs' participation facilitators. It would also provide specific training
in areas of PA involvement, e.g., fund-raising, school maintenance, monitoring of
attendance by teahcers and students, to groups of PA representatives, and attempt
to prepare and encourage women to seek positions of leadership within the PAs
(para. 1.15). Further training would also be directed to the SEEBAC's district and
regional participation facilitators, who would link communities with the SEEBAC
and provide continuous support.
b)    The provision, for some 640 schools, of funds for modest educational
improvements (e.g., for complementary materials). The improvements would be
financed through annual transfers to district offices, which in turn would channel
these resources on a competitive basis to schools whose PAs offer to meet a share
of the costs, draw up a school development plan, and meet project targeting
criteria.
c)    As the SEEBAC increases the number of district participation facilitators, from 50
to about 250, the component would improve their access to rural communities. It
would provide 250 motorcycles for re-sale (at cost) to the facilitators. Payments
would be automatically deducted from salaries, as under the ongoing projects for
district supervisors.
d)    The component would also assist the SEEBAC in: (i) the production of print and
audio-visual materials for PAs; (ii) organization of district, regional, and national
meetings for PA members to promote participation; and (iii) monitoring of the
achievements of participation.
2.24 B. 4: Monitoring and Evaluation System (US$2.1 million, including contingencies). A
Plan and project monitoring and evaluation system (MES) would be established within the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) and integrated into the SEEBAC's management information system and
community feedback mechanisms. It would be composed of the following sub-systems:
(a)   Monitoring. The monitoring system would assist PCU and SEEBAC staff to
observe and track performance indicators identified for each project component..
An information bank would measure progress over time. The system would also
consist of field observation and focus groups and surveys of the beneficiaries.



24
(b)   Evaluation. The evaluation system would measure the project's impact. It is
designed to ascertain whether or not project interventions are producing intended
results, cost-effectively. Included would be the use of a framework to link specific
interventions to project goals and objectives. Evaluations would be annual,
supported through the execution of a base-line study at the beginning at the project
(See Annex 4), which would incorporate data required to assess the impact and
cost-effectiveness over time of each project component. In line with Plan and
project objectives, key indicators of impact for basic education, based on system
performance and expenditure, have been selected for continuous review during
1996-2000. These are:
(i)    Reducing repetition rates from 13 to 10 percent; and dropout from 1 1 to 5
percent;
(ii)   Increasing enrollment rates from 92 to 97 percent;
(iii)   Increasing completion rates from 45 to 50 percent (grades 1-8);
(iv)    Increasing in-class instruction time from 684 to 770 hours;
(v)    Increasing public expenditure on education to 16 percent of total public
expenditure, recurrent expenditure per student from US$86 to US$140,
and expenditure as a share of GDP from 1.8 percent to 2.9 percent,
including continuous improvements in incentives for teachers and
administrators; and
(vi)   raising student achievement as measured by the national assessment.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that it would take all necessary
measures to achieve progress towards the perrormance and expenditure targets, set out in
an Implementation Letter.



25
3. PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS
A. Project Costs and Financing
3.1    Project Costs. Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies and
excluding taxes, would be US$100.0 million equivalent (Annex 5). The IDB loan of US$52.0
million would finance 52 percent of the total; an IBRD loan of US$37.0 million would finance 37
percent of the total, and the Government would finance an amount equivalent to 11 percent.
Thirty percent of the total cost, US$30.0 million, would be foreign exchange.
3.2     Costs are estimated at July 1995 levels in U.S. dollars. Physical contingencies of 5 percent
for civil works are included in the total project cost. Annual price contingencies are calculated at
the projected international rate of 2.6 percent. This rate was applied to local as well as foreign
costs; periodic exchange rate adjustments are expected to compensate for differences between
projected US$ inflation and local inflation rates. Estimated costs for civil works and maintenance
materials are based on recent prices for similar works and the relevant materials. Estimated costs
of equipment, furniture, and vehicles are based on current c.i.f unit prices, adjusted to include
local transportation costs. Estimates for technical assistance and studies are based on recent
international and local costs.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Foreign          Local          Total
USS milion
Educational Development
National Curriculum Reform                              0.7              2.4            3.1
Educational Materials and Resources                     5.7              5.7           11.4
Human Resources Development                             0.6              7.3            7.9
National Student Assessment                             0.4              2.5            2.9
School Nutrition Programs                               1.6              1.6            3.2
School Facilities                                      11.6            31.5           43.1
Pilot Programn to Support Private Schools Assisting     0.5              2.9            3.4
Low-income Populations
Subtotal Component Educational Development              21.1             53.9           75.0
Management Development
Institutional Strengthening                             1.2              2.0           3.2
Management Information System                           2.7              1.0           3.7
Community Participation                                 1.1              1.2           2.3
Monitoring and Evaluation System                        0.5              1.4           1.9
PCU                                                     0.3              3.8           4.1
Subtotal Management Development                          5.8              9.4          15.2
Total Baseline Costs                                    26.9             63.3          90.2
IDB Supervision                                          0.5             -              0.5
Physical Contingencies                                  0.3              1.6           1.9
Price Contingencies                                     1.9              5.5           7.4
Tota Project Costs                                      3 . ... ..:.        :     -: - : -.-:
Note: Totals rounded.
3.3     Financing Plan. The banks would finance 89 percent of the project, and the Government
11 percent. The bank loans would cover 100 percent of the project's estimated foreign exchange
costs and 85 percent of local costs. The banks will share the financing of major components,



26
though discernible subcomponents will be financed by each. The KfW is considering financing
approximately US$10 million equivalent in the area of civil works for basic education (para.
2.12). This, if confirmed, would be considered incremental to the works included under the
project to be supported by the IDB and the IBRD.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Foreign      Local       Total
million
Government of the Dominican Republic          0.0        11.0        11.0
IBRD                                          8.5        28.5        37.0
IDB                                          21.5        30.5        52.0
TOTAL                                        30.0        70.0       100.0
3.4   Incremental Recurrent Costs. During the implementation period, the project will add an
average of US$2.3 million per year to the recurrent expenditures of the SEEBAC. These
incremental operating costs would be generated mainly by consultant fees and operating expenses
of the PCU, and materials for preventive maintenance of school facilities (Annex 8). The
operating expenses and maintenance materials costs would be financed on a declining basis by the
1DB and IBRD loans. In addition, to sustain project inputs and benefits beyond the
implementation period, an estimated US$9 million equivalent annually would be required,
primarily to finance materials replacement on a continuous basis as well as school maintenance,
the national assessment, and nutrition and parents association support. This amount would
represent about 4 percent of the SEEBAC resources projected for 2001 (Annex 9). With
economic growth forecast to grow at a minimum of 3 percent annually over the medium-term, the
project should not present an undue financial burden on the Government.
Table 3: Incremental Recurrent Costs of the Project During Implementation
US$ mln.    199516      1996/7      1997/8     1998/9    1999/2000
Government       0.0        0.8         1.7        2.3         1.6
Banks            1.2        2.4         1.7        0.4         0.0
B. Procurement
3.5   The project would include procurement of civil works for new construction, rehabilitation
and minor repairs and preventive maintenance materials for school infrastructure. The project
would also finance the development of textbooks, procurement of library books and other
educational classroom packages and supplies, school and office furniture, radio and computing
equipment, vehicles, and printing services for informational and assessment materials, textbooks,
workbooks, educational newspapers and teachers' guides. In addition, the project would finance
studies and technical assistance services. Procurement of goods and works would be carried out



27
through parallel financing with the IDB in accordance with each bank's procurement guidelines.
Procurement under EBRD financing would be conducted in accordance with IBRD's guidelines
for procurement (January 1995). The project would be supported by experienced staff in the
PCU who have acquired substantial experience in handling NCB and ICB procurement under the
ongoing IBRD and IDB-assisted basic education projects. Specific procurement and
disbursement procedures under the Banks' procurement guidelines would be incorporated into the
project operational manual (para. 4.4). Technical assistance and training will be made available
when needed to ensure acceptable procedures.
3.6   Contracts would be packaged whenever possible to take advantage of economies of scale
and to ensure the quality of the goods and services procured and their consistency with project
objectives. Procurement arrangements for IBRD are summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Procurement of printing services and technical assistance for design of didactic and informational
materials would be contracted by the educational materials agency following IDB procedures.
For ICB, the PCU would use the standard bidding documents (SBDs) issued by the IBRD, with
such modifications as agreed by the Bank to be necessary for the purpose of the project. For
national competitive bidding (NCB), SBDs as agreed by the Bank with the Government of the
Dominican Republic would be used. The SEEBAC has prepared draft standard bidding
documents for goods and services for the project. These would be finalized in agreement with the
IBRD (para. 4.4).
3.7   Civil Works. Both Banks would finance against works totaling approximately US$35.0
million in value. These comprise new construction, rehabilitation and repair of classrooms. ICB is
not expected but would be used when packages equal or exceed the equivalent of US$3.0 million
in value. To the extent practicable, new construction works would be packaged in contracts to
exceed US$250,000 equivalent in value and awarded following NCB procedures, without
restriction to participation of foreign bidders. For works valued at US$250,000 equivalent or
less, lumpsum, fixed price contracts would be awarded on the basis of three quotations, up to an
aggregate limit of US$3.0 million equivalent. However, within this latter limit, for rehabilitation
or minor works in scattered, distant rural areas, direct contracting may be used for contracts
under US$50,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$0.8 million equivalent.
3.8   Educational Materials. IDB would finance printing of textbooks, workbooks and
teachers guides and distribution services for these materials. EBRD would finance library books
and classroom didactic materials and supplies of approximately US$11.2 million equivalent in
value and printing of nutritional information materials One large package for classroom materials
would be procured each year following ICB procedures. For contracts valued at less than the
equivalent of US$250,000 and subject to an aggregate limit of US$2.0 million, NCB procedures
would be used, without restricting participation of interested foreign suppliers. For purchases
valued at US$50,000 equivalent or less, national shopping procedures would be followed up to an
aggregate limit of US$1.8 million equivalent.
3.9   Other Goods. IDB would finance school furniture, communications and office equipment
and supplies. Other goods in the project would be financed by IBRD. These include one
package each of computer equipment and of vehicles, valued at US$200,000 equivalent, each, to
be procured under limited international bidding procedures. The IBRD would finance small



28
purchases of materials to be used under the preventive maintenance program through national
staffing procedures. Annual purchases by PAs under this program will not exceed US$10,000
equivalent per school in classrooms improved under the ongoing loans.
3.10  Pharmaceuticals. The IBRD would finance procurement, inspection and distribution
services of micronutrients and pharmaceuticals under the nutrition program in the project.
Procurement of these goods would be carried out following LIB procedures. The SEEBAC
would ensure the selection of a list of international suppliers which meet World Health
Organization quality control requirements. These items would be procured in packages, allowing
for phased delivery, with IBRD financing amounting in total value to US$0.4 million.
3.11  Training, Technical Assistance and Studies an the PCU. The project would finance
technical assistance and consulting services to prepare studies, design information campaigns and
provide training. It would also finance contracts of fixed-term consultants in the PCU. The
studies to be performed under the project, center on, but are not limited to the decentralization of
educational management and educational effectiveness and financing. For subcomponents
financed by IBRD, individual consultants and consultant firms carrying out technical assistance,
including auditing services, would be hired following IBRD Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). During
appraisal, training programs, technical assistance and studies to be financed under the project
were reviewed and agreed with the SEEBAC. For contracting training, technical assistance and
studies under the project, a standard invitation package and forms of contracts would be agreed
with the IBRD, and have been drafted by the SEEBAC.
3.12  Costs not Involving Procurement. Nearly 8 percent of total project costs, or US$7.7
million equivalent, do not involve procurement. These costs include mainly incremental
operational expenses.
3.13  Review by lBRD. Prior review by the IBRD would be required for: (a) all annual
procurement plans prepared by the SEEBAC; (b) procurement procedures and documentation for
all tender packages and contracts for goods and works for ICB, for goods under LIB, the first
contracts for goods and works under NCB, and all works contracts equal to, or more than,
US$500,000 equivalent. It is expected that these arrangements would permit review of nearly 65
percent of contracts by value, since a large portion of IBRD financing would be for small works in
school infrastructure to be awarded under NCB procedures All terms of reference for technical
assistance and studies would be subject to prior review by the IBRD. Documentation for
contracts with consultant firms, valued at US$75,000 or more, and for individual consultants,
valued at U$3 5,000 equivalent or more, would also be subject to prior review by the IBRD.
These thresholds are justified, based on review of estimated costs and the nature of required
consultant services. All other documentation would be subject to ex-post review during auditing
and by IBRD supervision missions, on a random basis.
3.14  No recent Country Procurement Assessment on the Dominican Republic is available.
However, procurement regulations clearly authorize the application of procurement procedures of
international financial institutions for the procurement of civil works, goods and services, where
the financing for such procurement comes from such institutions.



29
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Category             ICB       NCB    OTHER   IBRD)    NBF    Project
Total              Total
15.1      3.0      18.1      16.5      34.6
Civil Works                             (11.8)    (2.4)1    (14.2)   (16.5)    (30.7)
Goods
A. Education Materials       1.82     2.03       1.84      5.6      11.2      16.8
(1.8)    (1.4)     (1.8)     (5.0)    (11.2)    (16.2)
B. Other Goods
Equipment                                    0.45      0.4       9.2       9.6
(0.4)    (0.4)    (8.5)      (8.9)
Furniture                                                       4.2       4.2
(4.1)    (4.1)
Maintenance Materials                        4.45      4.4      4.3       8.7
(4.0)    (4.0)    (0.3)      (4.3)
Training                                            6.2      6.2       8.0      14.2
(6.2)    (6.2)    (8.0)     (14.2)
Consultant's Services                              6.66      6.6       6.6      13.2
(6.6)    (6.6)    (6.4)     (13.0)
FIV7                                                                   0.5       0.5
(0.5)     (0.5)
Pharmaceuticals                                  0.88      0.8                0.8
(0.4)    (0.4)              (0.4)
Incremental Operating Expenses                                         0.7
(0.3)
1.8      13.1      23.2     42.01     57.8     100.0
Total                          (1.8)    (13.2)    (21.6)    (37.0)   (52.0)    (89.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD and, for Non-Bank
Financed (NBF), by the IDB.
Figures rounded.
I  Includes US$2.2 million for lump sum fixed-priced contracts, US$0.8 million of direct contracting.
2. Library materials to be procured by ICB - 2 step, testing materials and classroom didactic packages.
3  Includes US$1.4 million of educational materials and 0.6 for printing services.
4  Includes US$0.1 million of classroom materials and US$1.2 million of educational materials and US$0.5
million of school supplies, to be procured under national shopping procedures.
5 Includes US$0.4 million for vehicles and computing equipment to be procured LIB, and US$4.4 million for
materials for the preventive maintenance program to be purchased by PAs through national shopping.
6  Includes studies, technical assistance and long-term consultants in PCU.
7  Inspection and supervision fee.
Vitamins and vaccines.



30
C. Disbursements
3.15  The proposed project would be implemented over a period of five years, beginning early
1996 (Annex 10). The proceeds of the IDB and IBRD loans would be disbursed over a period of
five and a half years, ending June 30, 2001 (Annex 7).
3.16 Disbursement of IBRD Funds. The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed as
follows: (a) civil works - 78 percent of construction, rehabilitation and minor repair; (b)
educational materials and printing, and equipment -100 percent of foreign and 92 percent of local
expenditures; (c) maintenance materials - 100 percent until withdrawals have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.3 million, and 70 percent thereafter; (d) pharmaceuticals -
50 percent of expenditures; and (e) training, technical assistance and studies and fixed-term
contracts for staff in PCU- 100 percent of expenditures, excluding taxes.
3.17  In view of the advanced preparation and the scheduling of the project, retroactive
financing would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after May 1995, up to an amount
of US$0.5 million equivalent. Proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against expenditures that
would be submitted to the IBRD and fully documented for contracts valued a: (a) US$500,000
equivalent or more for works; (b) US$ 250,000 or more for goods, or if awarded through LIB
procedures; (c) the first contracts to be awarded for goods and works through NCB; (d)
US$75,000 or more for consulting firms; and (e) US$35,000 or more for individual consultants.
Claims for expenditures of lesser amounts would be disbursed against presentation of statements
of expenditure (SOEs), for which the supporting documentation would be retained by the
SEEBAC for inspection by the banks and by external auditors. A Special Account would be
opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$600,000, rising to US$1.8 million after
withdrawals and special commitments reach US$5.5 million. Payments from the Special Account
would be made at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of expenditure, pertain to eligible
expenditures and be supported by the required documentation. The Government would establish
a project account in local currency with an initial deposit equivalent to US$400,000, or about four
months local contribution. During negotiations, the Government agreed to allocate and
make available annually the counterpart funds required for project implementation, set out
in the Implementation Letter, and to maintain a project account in pesos throughout
project implementation. A condition for IBRD loan effectiveness (and IDB disbursement)
would be the establishment and initial provision of US$400,000 equivalent for this account,
and confirmation of the availability of the budget allocation required in the first year of
project implementation.
D. Accounts and Audits
3.18  SEEBAC would establish and maintain separate accounts and records for each loan to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures related to
the project. The SEEBAC would maintain a consolidated account of all resources and



31
expenditures under the project. These accounts would be audited annually by private independent
auditors satisfactory to the IDB and IBRD. The audits, which would include a separate opinion
on the adequacy of statements of expenditures as a basis of loan disbursements, would be
forwarded to the banks no later that six months after the end of each fiscal year during the period
of project execution. To support the timely provision of audit reports, SEEBAC will contract the
auditing firm at the beginning of each project year to be considered for the auditing exercise. The
annual audits would also cover a random sample of the records and accounts maintained by
parents associations. The PCU would set up, before effectiveness, a chart of accounts and
develop an administrative manual for the financial operation of the project. The accounting
system would allow for reconciliation of the project accounts with the general budgetary
accounting system of the SEEBAC. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
Government would: (a) have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited by
independent and qualified auditors, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and procedures; (b) furnish to the banks as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each year, a certified copy of the agreed audit
reports; and (c) furnish to the banks such other information concerning the records and
accounts as well as the audit as the banks would from time to time reasonably request. A
condition of effectiveness would be the adoption by the Government of an internal
accounting system satisfactory to the IBRD.



32
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Implementation
4.1   SEEBAC will be responsible for the execution of the project. An agreement between the
borrower and the executing agency to transfer resources from the IDB loan will be a condition for
IDB disbursement.
4.2   Management Structure. The Secretary of the SEEBAC would be responsible for
project management. The Secretary would be assisted by a single Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). Daily operations would be supervised by a Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator
would be responsible for two units within the PCU: the Technical Unit, which would monitor and
support technical execution of project components, focusing on the build-up of decision-making
and implementation capacity within the respective SEEBAC departments during project
implementation; and the Administrative Unit, which would manage the project's personnel,
procurement, finance, accounting, and auditing activities. The PCU would be staffed by about 16
local consultants, including the Project Coordinator, Chief of the Administrative Unit, Chief of the
Technical Unit, and consultants for each subcomponent. In the Technical Unit, consultants for
the subcomponents would serve as advisors to the chiefs of the relevant SEEBAC departments
(i.e., the consultant responsible for school rehabilitation would support the Director of School
Facilities). Direct implementation would be carried out by the SEEBAC's district offices, with
support provided or arranged by the PCU and central and regional SEEBAC offices. For
maintenance and minor repair of school facilities, the PAs would be responsible for
implementation.
4.3   The PCU would provide funds (US$300,000 equivalent) for paying regular SEEBAC
staff involved with the project for extra hours worked on priority project activities. Criteria for
fund use include payment at the actual salary rate for hours worked beyond the official working
day, which ends at 2:30 p.m. Financing for PCU operations is included under the project. As a
condition of effectiveness (EDB disbursement) of the proposed project, the Government
would have established the PCU and appointed the PCU Coordinator with qualifications
and terms of reference acceptable to the IBRD.
4.4   Implementation Processes. Implementation procedures for the project would be set out
in an operational manual. The manual would describe implementation responsibilities and
processes by subcomponent, financial flows and control mechanisms, procurement arrangements
and targeting and cost-sharing criteria. For procurement, standard bidding documents acceptable
to the banks would be included (paras. 3.5-3.6). As a condition for effectiveness for the IBRD
(disbursement for the IDB) the Government would be asked to finalize and put into use an
operational manual acceptable to the banks, incorporating standard bidding documents.



33
B. Project Monitoring and Review
4.5   Monitoring. The banks and PCU will monitor the key indicators of Plan and project
achievements as well as physical and financial implementation of project components (para. 2.24
and Annex 4). The efficiency and coverage targets are based on analysis of information made
available by the SEEBAC and would be adjusted during project implementation on the basis of
indicators generated through the SEEBAC's management information system and national
assessment system. The targeted gains are projected on the basis of quality improvements
expected to result from project expenditures and inputs and the Government's continued financial
and political commitment to improving basic public education.. Because achievements in the
provision of project inputs (e.g., number of teachers trained, number of students provided with
texts and workbooks) would largely determine the progress toward the performance targets, these
inputs would also be closely monitored.
4.6   Annual Review. The results of project monitoring would form a central focus of an
annual review of project implementation. The review would be conducted by the SEEBAC and
submitted for review to the IDB and IBRD (Annex 7). It would assess the previous year's
progress toward achieving expenditure, management, and physical targets, and establish targets
and schedules for the following year. Resolution of implementation problems and adjustments in
project content would also form a focus of the reviews. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to furnish to the banks, by February 1 each year, a report of results of
implementation for the previous year and proposed activities and budgetary allocations the
following year; and to undertake, by February 28 of each year, beginning in 1996, an
annual review of project execution jointly with the IDB and IBRD.
4.7   Mid-Term Review. The third annual review would be the mid-term review and would be
undertaken jointly by the IBRD, IDB and the SEEBAC. It would assess overall project
performance and initial impact in the light of Plan and project objectives. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that it would conduct jointly with the IDB and the IBRD an in-
depth review of project implementation, and prepare, on the basis of that review, action
plans satisfactory to the banks to be initiated by February 28, 1999.
4.8   Project Supervision.The project would require close supervision, especially if new
leadership is appointed to the SEEBAC following planned 1996 elections and if the SEEBAC
continues to deconcentrate management responsibilities as is currently contemplated. Bank
missions would visit a broad sample of participating regions at least once every year for the first
two years of the project. For the first year, supervision requirements are estimated at 20 staff-
weeks of headquarters staff and comprehensive continuous supervision from the IDB
Representation in the Dominican Republic. From the second year on, supervision requirements
would decrease to about 15 staff-weeks of headquarters staff annually. Local supervision would
play an important role, particularly for components entailing local management of project
resources such as school rehabilitation and maintenance, about 10 staff-weeks per year of local
supervision would be needed.



34
5. PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1   Main Benefits. The proposed project aims to strengthen and extend coverage of basic
education. Achievement of targeted increases in expenditure, including the regular provision of
teacher training and student and teacher materials, together with systematic assessment of student
achievement, should raise the overall quality and efficiency of basic education. While all children
in the relevant age-group stand to benefit from the project, the greatest share of benefits will
accrue to the poor, who would be the main beneficiaries of preschool inputs, school feeding and
school facilities upgrading. This group represents about 400,000 children, or about 30 percent of
anticipated enrollment in public basic education during project implementation. Reaching the
program's management development objectives would further contribute to improvements in
overall resource management at the central and local levels. In particular, the planned
maintenance of widespread national support and oversight for the Ten-Year Education Plan, and
of enhanced community participation at the school level, could be expected to help sustain
improved educational quality and efficiency of basic education.
5.2   Environmental Aspects. The project would enhance environmental conservation
through introduction of environmental themes in the basic education curriculum and is rated "C".
5.3   Poverty Category. The proposed project falls under the program objective category of
poverty reduction and incorporates a program of targeted poverty interventions (para. 2.2). The
preschool expansion, school nutrition and facilities rehabilitation and expansion components
would target poverty groups based on income and nutrition data. The pilot support for private
schools would also target low-income students.
5.4   Participatory Approach. The proposed project focuses heavily on use of participatory
techniques at all levels, e.g., from involving a broad spectrum of interest groups in Plan design to
supporting parents participation in management at the school level. Mid-term results under the
current project confirm that this participation accounts largely for the Plan's early success.
Continued broad support and local participation will be important components of the proposed
project.



35
B. Economic Justification
5.5   Feasibility. As part of the project preparation exercise, a financial model was developed
to assess the feasibility of Plan expenditure targets (Annex 8). 5 Financing targets, consistent with
the Ten-Year Plan, for salary and other recurrent expenditures and capital expenditures, and
enrollment projections were incorporated in the model. The model also includes projected
population growth and conservative projections for GDP growth (3 percent per annum) through
2006, employment growth and fiscal policies and debt servicing capacity. Based on these
projections, model results indicate that public expenditure on education would need to grow to
nearly 16 percent of total public expenditure by 2000. The ratio of education expenditure to GDP
would reach 2.4 percent and recurrent expenditure per student, about US$140. Trends in overall
and education expenditure, particularly March 1995 salary increases of about a third, the
increased interest of all political groups and civil society in public education, and the likelihood
that any new government will address the remaining sectoral issues permit the banks to assess the
model's scenario as reasonable and likely. On the cost side, the estimated jump in recurrent
expenditure per student from US$86 in 1995 to US$140 in 2000 will be partially offset by an
estimated savings as a result of reduced student repetition equivalent to 3 percent of projected
expenditure on SEEBAC programs and by a significant shift in the balance between capital and
recurrent expenditures, in favor of recurrent expenditures (Annex 9).
5.6    Cost-effectiveness. Investment in basic education generally has a high economic return
and is recognized as a prerequisite for improving labor productivity and earning capacity. In line
with results obtained elsewhere, evidence that basic education warrants investment is strong for
the Dominican Republic. Using 1991 data and the Psacharopoulos and Ng model, rates of return
for basic education were estimated, yielding a social rate of return of 18 percent for individuals
completing grade 4 as compared with those with no education, and a 14 percent return for those
completing grade 8. Private rates of return relative to individuals without any education were: 20
percent for those completing grade 4 and 15 percent for those completing grade 8. In view of
favorable prospects for medium-term growth and anticipated improvements in quality of basic
education, the average rates of return could be expected to continue or improve in the future.
5.7   Systematic analysis of the cost-effectiveness of the particular investment inputs selected
for the project versus alternative inputs, was not undertaken owing to a lack of data. However,
project inputs would build largely on those provided through the Plan during 1991-95. These
inputs have contributed substantially to the efficiency and quality gains achieved over that period,
as evident in a reported 35 percent reduction in student repetition and a 125 percent increase in
the student completion rate for grades 1 - 8. Based upon IBRD and other experience, the
proposed project inputs represent economical solutions to providing goods and services
considered to be effective for raising the quality and internal efficiency of basic education (Annex
9). Included are the large educational materials, teacher training and facilities upgrading
programs, as well as the student assessment system. The latter, together with the community
participation and continued stakeholder involvement at the national level, would serve to enhance
5 Ceara, Miguel. Financiamiento del Plan Decenal de Educaci6n, Centro de Investigaciones Econ6micas del Caribe
(CIECA), June 6, 1995.



36
accountability and promote effective use of resources. The project would establish the requisite
baseline information to monitor the cost-effectiveness of project inputs in the future. Specific
tradeoffs, which were considered in project design, centered on teachers: Optimum levels of
training and a significantly extended school-day were traded based upon affordability for lower-
cost solutions for the medium term.
C. Risks
5.8   The main risks to further, effective execution of the Plan center on political and macro-
economic uncertainties, potential financing constraints, and continuing weaknesses in technical
capacity of the SEEBAC. A risk exists that opposition parties and the teachers union would
reduce support for the Plan prior to, or after elections, currently planned for April 1996. The risk
of a decline in funding for basic education, through diversion of discretionary funds, could also
result from political change. These risks are reduced by continued emphasis on incorporating all
stakeholders in the educational development process and the likelihood that future governments
would continue to accord priority to the provision of basic education services. While the risk of a
macro-economic downturn cannot readily be mitigated, the small share for project costs in total
basic education expenditure, coupled with the low local contribution to project financing, should
ensure continuous project funding. A final risk exists that SEEBAC's technical capacity may not
be sufficient over the near-term to support efficient execution of the program. This risk will be
minimized through the design of technical support to facilitate the transfer of skills to the
SEEBAC. Continued improvement of incentives for administrators should also help attract
increasingly qualified personnel to the SEEBAC.
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   During Negotiations agreement was reached with the Government:
(a)   to establish the educational materials agency within 12 months of loan
effectiveness (para. 2.7d);
(b)   to take all necessary measures to achieve progress towards performance and
expenditure targets as set out in the Project Implementation Letter (paras. 2.24b);
(c)   to allocate and make available annually the counterpart funds required for project
implementation as set out in the Project Implementation Letter and to maintain a
project account in pesos throughout project implementation (para. 3.18);
(d)   to have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent and
qualified auditors; furnish to the IDB and IBRD not later than six months after the
end of each year a certified copy of the agreed audit reports; and furnish to the
banks such other information related to records and accounts as may be reasonably
requested (3.19);



37
(e)   to furnish to the IBRD and IDB by February 1 each year, beginning in 1996, a
report of results of implementation for the previous year and proposed activities
and budgetary allocations for the following year (para. 4.6); and to undertake by
February 28 of each year, beginning in 1996, an annual review of project execution
jointly with the IBRD and IDB.
(f)   to conduct jointly with the IDB and the IBRD an in-depth review of project
implementation and prepare, on the basis of that review, action plans satisfactory
to the IDB and the IBRD to be initiated by February 28, 1999 (para. 4.7);
6.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   confirmation of the availability of the budget allocation required for the first year
of project implementation and establishment and initial provision of funds for the
project account (para. 3.18);
(b)   adoption of an internal accounting system for the project satisfactory to the IBRD
(para. 3.19);
(c)   established the PCU and appointed the PCU Coordinator with qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to the IBRD (para. 4.3); and
(d)   finalization and introduction of the operational manual for the project satisfactory
to the IBRD and IDB covering implementation responsibilities and processes by
subcomponent, including financial flows and control mechanisms, procurement
arrangements and model bidding documents, and targeting and cost-sharing
criteria (para. 4.4).
6.3   Recommendation. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IBRD loan of US$37.0 million for the Dominican
Republic.



38
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE BASIC EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. OVERVIEW
1.1   Composition of the Education Sector. The education system consists of an eight
year basic education cycle, followed by a four year secondary school education. A
preprimary year for 5-year-olds is not yet mandatory. However, most urban public
schools accommodate this level when space is available. There are a total of 7,918 public
and private basic education and secondary schools: 6,277 public, 1,641 private in both
urban and rural areas. Basic education is offered in 5,036 public schools and 1,641 private
schools which includes pre-school, regular basic education, basic education for adults and
special education. Enrollment in grades 1-8 has been increasing since 1991 from 952,000
to 1,195,000 with an expected increase to 1,586,400 in 2001. Enrollment in private
schools is substantial. It is interesting to note that the participation of lower-income
students in private schools is quite high. Students categorized in the 50% lower income
group make up 39.1 percent of basic education enrollment, 42.9 percent of private basic
education enrollment and 27.4 percent of private secondary enrollment. Middle income
students are also found in similar proportions in private school enrollment: 39.1 percent in
preschool, 43.6 percent in basic education and 49.4 percent in secondary education.
Private education in the Dominican Republic does not cater exclusively to the upper
income children.
1.2   Organization of SEEBAC. Primary and secondary education are managed by
the Secretariat of Education, Arts, and Culture (SEEBAC). The SEEBAC is composed of
a central office, 11 regional offices, and 81 district offices. Almost 40 percent of rural
schools are single room multigrade schools which do not offer all eight grades. The
SEEBAC employs about 3,000 administrators, and 28,400 teachers, including school
directors. About 5 percent of teachers deliver preschool services, 69 percent provide
basic education, 15 percent teach in secondary schools, and 11 percent are shared between
adult education, vocational education, and normal schools (teachers' colleges). Higher
education is the responsibility of the National Council for Higher Education, which
operates independently from the SEEBAC. Girls and boys participate in basic education
in equal numbers. The private sector accounts for 1 in every 5 students receiving basic
education services and 2 out of every 5 students enrolled in secondary and higher
education.  The State currently provides public education free of charge, with the
exception of fees charged for use of materials. Nominal tuition is charged at the tertiary
level.
1.3   Management.  SEEBAC's central office is responsible for all major decisions
regarding financial, administrative and academic affairs. SEEBAC's central office is the



39
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
pivotal point for planning, programming, budgeting and management information system.
The central government retains control over educational financing, with provincial and
municipal governments playing no significant role.  School accreditation, national
curriculum, textbooks and national examinations are the responsibility of the central office.
Private schools adhere to the national curriculum, textbooks and national examination
system.
1.4   Financing. The SEEBAC currently devotes 1 percent of its spending to preschool
services and 67 percent of national education spending to basic education. Secondary
services receive 21 percent, and 10 percent of public spending is allocated to adult and
technical education. Private investment in preschool, primary and secondary education
account for a significant share of total education spending, and now makes up a quarter of
overall allocations on preschool and primary education and almost 40 percent of
secondary education.



4o                                                           ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
BASIC EDUCATION STATISTICS'
Table 1. Public Basic Education Enrollment and Rate of Promotion, by Grade: 1991-2001
Enrollment in Thousands (% of Students Promoted
Total    Grade       Grade 2   8Grade3            Grade 4       Grade          Grde 6         Grade 7        Grade 8
1991    952.9    260.8    171.2 (64%)   138.1 (52%)  108.6 (38%)  93.0  (32%)   77.7 (26%)   58.2 (21%)   45.3  (-Y%)
1992    990.3    275.2    157.4 (60%)   133.8 (50%)  112.1 (42%)  100.7 (35%)   86.2 (29%)   67.5 (23%)   573  (2 0/6)
1993   1,026.8    277.1   163.6 (59%)  140.1  (54%)  122.9 (46%)  98.1  (37'!)   88.6 (31%)   72.8 (25%)   63.4  (22%)
1994   1,195.5    254.2   216.5 (69%)  192.2 (61%)  156.3 (55%)  127.2 (44%)   101.5 (35%)   30.5 (27%)   67.2  (23Ye)
1995   1287.8    249.4   218.4 (72%)  202.5 (63%)  181.4 (58%)  147.3 (50%)   119.8 (40%)   93.7 (31%)   S7.4  (25%) 1
1996   1,376.9    243.5   219.8 (73%)  207.1  (67%/e)  193.7 (60%)  172.4 (53%)   140.0 (46%)   111.9 (36%)   88.5  (30%)
1997   1,454.0    237.8   218.5 (74%)  209.6 (68%)  199.6 (64%)  185.9 (55%)   164.7 (49%)   131.3 (41%)  106.1 (34%)
1998   1,515.0    232.5    216.3 (74%)  209.8 (69%)  202.9 (65%)  193.0 (59%)   179.0 (51%)   155.9 (44%)  125.7 (39%)
1999   1,559.3    226.0   215.0 (75%)  209.0 (69%)  204.3 (66%)  197.0 (60%)   187.1 (55%)   171.2 (47%)   149.7 (42%)
2000   1,580.0    2259    209.3 (75%)  207.8 (70%)  203.6 (66%)  198.5 (61%)  191.1 (57%)   179.1 (51%)   164.7 (45%)
2001   1.5S6.4    2264    208.8 (75%)  202.5 ( 70%)  202.4 (66%)  197.9 (62%)   192.7 (57%)   183.1 (52%)  172.6 (49%)
Table 2. Repetition and Desertion, by Grade
I   Average 1987-91                1994
Grades  Repetition   Dropout    Repetition   Dropout
Totals      17.6         21.3        13.2        10.9
1st         29.1         23.7        23.8        14.0
2nd         17.6         13.1        14.7        10.0
3rd         14.2         12.0        13.7         9.5
4th         12.3         16.4    _    II         12.0
5th         11.3         12.3         1.7        10.5
6th         10.2         27.5         1.9         10.0
7th         10.3         22.7         1.9         6.0
8th          9.1         n.a.         6.2         6.1
Table 3. Percentage of Students Completing Public Basic Education: 1992-2002
2006
2004
2002
2000                                        I
-    - __                                     -   U 
19w  -_-r
1992                         =1mkto 
%           10%          20%          30%.         40%          50%         60%
Unless otherwise noted. the sourc:s for Lthis data are CECA. SEEBAC. and the World Bank.



4.
ANNEX I
Table 4. Distribution or Snudents Accordina to                                            Page4of4
Income Group and Level of Insuruction
50%  Lower        40% Middle       10% Upper
Income         Income              Income
TOTAL                                     (Percent)
Pmcbool                    n.a.              na               n.a.
Basic                     62.3              3.3               4.4
UM  Secondarv             45.8              41.9             12.3
PUBLIC_
Pr?uhoo.                  n.a.               l.L              na.
Baic                      71.6              28.1              0.i
UTC  SeK ondarv           S6.0              37.7              6.i
PRATE 
PT031ool                  39.1              39.1             21.8
Basic                     42.9              43.6             13.i
Uvoq Seondar              27 4              49.4      I      2,.2
S4UMw         Go C         bhco Social ar la ReanblicsDoimmca,a lwa lecada de Lo: Ochrntw. 1993.
Table 5. Basic Educaton Students, by Sector & Region: 1994
Reqponal           1994
REGION                   ~~~~~~Totals
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Public                         Privat
Narional Total                   1J14.036  1I2.7 2l8N7,408
.iBamhons                          195.288     6129          .4
Su: Juass de la Mactay            215.008   66.881        487
Azua                              221.853     70.825   I   5.602
Santb D    o                      661.283    132.561      82.210
San Pe&de Macmis                  345.116    9Z.199       27.799
La Veu                            481.118     143.024     17,34Z
San Frz=cisco de maons            367Z55    113.116       10.115
Santiago                          372.821     95,470      29,921
Mao                               202.577     61.088       7.183
Santo Domsingo II                 726.071    149.457      89,864
Puc:to Plata                      136.524     40.728       7,452



42
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lessons of Previous Experience - IBRD
1.    During the 1970s and 1980s, the World Bank group operations in the sector consisted of a
series of partial successes and false starts. An IDA credit of US$4.0 million (Credit 234-DO) was
approved in 1970 and completed in 1977, two years behind schedule. It aimed at improving
training for primary school teachers, strengthening the curriculum and structure of secondary
education, and preparing a long-term plan for educational development. While technically sound,
the development plan was not implemented due to difficulties encountered in managing its
technical assistance component. Opposition from teachers and politicians precluded completion
of the proposed reform of secondary education. A US$8.0 million project (Loan 1142-DO),
aimed at rationalizing the physical distribution of rural primary education, was approved in 1975.
It financed the construction and equipment of rural community learning centers (RCLCs) and
agricultural and vocational training centers. It also sought to upgrade the quality of teaching in
the RCLCs. After a three year delay, the project created a number of RCLCs, a training program
for primary teachers, and the National Institute for Vocational Training (INFOTEP). A third
project, to improve rural primary education, was appraised in November 1981 but was dropped in
1983 by a new government because of a lack of willingness to borrow for social investment. A
fourth operation, the Vocational Training Project, was approved in 1985 but was canceled in
1986 because of political differences between the President and the Board of INFOTEP, the
project's beneficiary. The most recent operation is the ongoing Primary Education Development
Project (Loan 3351-DO, US$15 million). Its content, which centers upon teacher and supervisor
training, student assessment, MIS development, school nutrition, facilities upgrading, and
community participation, has been described in earlier sections of this report. Due to rapid and
efficient implementation, the project will close two years ahead of schedule, in mid 1996.
2.    The main lessons drawn from the mid-term review of the ongoing projects and earlier
project implementation experience center on the importance of broad support among project
stakeholders, appropriate technical designs and efficient implementation arrangements.
3.    The success of the current projects assisted by the IDB and IBRD stems from strong
government commitment and heavy investments in consensus-building by sector stakeholders. A
relatively stable macro-economic environment also has contributed. These elements were lacking
during implementation of the earlier projects, which foundered mainly on political differences
between the government and the teachers' union, and unreliable counterpart financing. The
proposed program would benefit from the momentum established under the Plan and ongoing
projects and continued emphasis on maintaining broad support. Further support would accrue
through the widespread participation of practitioners in the design of the new curriculum,
administrator training, and the student assessment systems, and through expanded community
participation at the school level.



43
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
4.    Technical lessons have emerged from the implementation experience with the ongoing
projects as well. Central among these is the need to retool curriculum, didactic materials, and
school rehabilitation and maintenance components to account for the special needs of preschool
education and multigrade classrooms.  Institutionally and financially sustainable means for
providing pre- and in-service training and educational materials of appropriate quality also would
be necessary to replace temporary mechanisms based on loan financing. Further, early results
suggest the need for strategic use of new information systems, including the student assessment,
to strengthen monitoring and evaluation under the Plan.
5.    Lessons drawn from project management experience also would be addressed in the
proposed operation. Strong leadership from the Office of the Secretary of the SEEBAC,
supported by competent project coordination units of the IBRD and IDB-financed projects,
account for the success of implementation of the Emergency Phase of the Plan. However,
institutional sustainability will depend upon the transfer of technical skills to the relevant central,
regional and district offices of the SEEBAC. The proposed project would include support for
effecting this transfer. Under the ongoing projects, the UNDP has executed the Bank's loan, and
the IDB Resident Mission has provided close oversight of the SEEBAC's compliance with
procurement and disbursement guidelines. These arrangement have speeded project execution
and avoided problems stemming from SEEBAC's poor administrative apparatus. However, the
complete separation of the Bank and IDB coordination units has unnecessarily increased overhead
costs and limited coordination. Under the proposed operations, all project management functions
would be integrated in one unit.



44
ANNEX 3
Page I of 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FRAMEWORK FOR DECONCENTRATED MANAGEMENT
OF BASIC EDUCATION
1.    Recognizing the ill-effects of centralization, the SEEBAC is using a consensus-building
approach to prepare the proposed Education law, intended for promulgation after the 1996
Presidential election. Under the proposed Law, administration and decision-making
responsibilities would be divided respectively between (a) the SEEBAC staff at the school,
district, regional and national level and (b) corresponding public councils, composed of the
highest SEEBAC official at that level and elected representatives of parents associations, the
teachers' union, civil society (e.g., churches, businesses, NGOs).
2.    For schools, principals would be responsible for day-to-day management while the
councils would prepare annual plans, programs, and operating and capital budgets. Parents
associations would maintain their functions of teacher and student absenteeism supervision,
procurement and labor for school rehabilitation and maintenance, and annual teacher evaluation.
School council decisions would be submitted to their respective districts, which would become
the SEEBAC/s primary axes for planning, programming, budgeting, supervision, technical
assistance to schools, arbitrating conflicts within schools, coordinating school feeding services and
in-service training to personnel with university and NGO providers, and recommending to the
central government hiring and firing decisions for teachers and principals. Regional offices would
recommend to the central government hiring and firing of SEEBAC district staff, consolidate the
plans, programs, and budgets of their respective districts, and provide supervision and support to
the districts. Consolidation of the national budget, payment of personnel, administration of the
employment rosters, accreditation, curriculum, text book, and training design, and final arbitration
of sub-national conflicts would remain at the central SEEBAC. The National Education Council,
similar in composition to the district and regional councils, would approved the budget before its
submission to the president for presentation to Congress.
3.    In terms of the distribution and management of financial resources, each schools annually
would receive a direct central SEEBAC appropriation to finance preventive maintenance, while
parents would continue their responsibilities for managing school funds. The district offices
would receive transfers to finance rehabilitation and classroom expansion. These transfers would
be allocated in turn to the schools best meeting, in the district council's judgment, centrally-
established targeting criteria. Regional offices would administer new school construction, while
the central SEEBAC would perform audits and manage financial transfers. In short, (a) day-to-
day management and investment decisions would be devolved down; (b) planning, programming,
and budgeting would flow from bottom-up, and (c) establishment of standards, monitoring, and
financing would flow top-down. While the SEEBAC has already made some progress in
preparing for such a fundamental reform, substantial investments in planning, training, and
equipment would be needed to implement is successfully.



45
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. Development Objectives/Impact Indicators
Revied Duning
Annual    Mid-Term
Impact Indicator          Methodology               Level of Observation        Review       Review
Objective: Expand Access at the Basic Level
Increase in net enrollment  Education Statistics    System                       Yes          Yes
rate for basic education  System
Increase in the percentage   Education Statistics   System                       Yes          Yes
of those students who     System
finish 8th grade                                 _
Objective: Improve the Qu lity and Effectiveness of Basic Education
Increase in academic      Analysis of Assessment    System                       Yes          Yes
achievement in core skills  results
in Spanish and
Mathematics
Reduction in the dropout   Education Statistics     System                       Yes          Yes
rate                      System
Reduction in the repetition   Education Statistics  System                       Yes          Yes
rate                      System
Increase in class         Sample Survey             System                        No
instruction time            .___._.
Objective: Increase Public Expenditure on Basic Education
Increase expenditures as    Finance statistics      National                     Yes          Yes
share of GDP; in terms of
overall public expenditure,
in terms of per student
expenditure, and in terms
of personnel incentives



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
B. PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
OBJECTIVES                                                 INDICATORS                                                 VERIFICATION BY                              ASSUMPTIONS
COMPONENTS
A    EDUCATION INPUTS
AI    Effective reform of the curriculum    Application of the curriculum  guidelines and study programs in 40% of       Training evaluations                          SEEBAC dedicated and committed to
in preschool and basic education    preschool and basic education classrooms by year three and 80% in year five                                                 making changes required to implement
Summary of progress                           each component
30% of preschool and baLsic education pupils have improved their attitude and
approach to learning by year three and 60% by year five                      Sample study
40% of the administrative workers have a posidve attitude of ongoing support  Surveys
for the process of curriculum reform by year three and 80% by year five
rr



ANNEX 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                          Page 3 of 6
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
B. PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
OBCT;VES                                    L                        S:                                                                                               OS
A2.  Learning resources produced and    40% of DGME technical personnel trained in technical guidelines by year   Training evaluations                       Interest and motivation of enough
distributed efficiently and on    three and 80% by year five                                                                                          teachers, school principals and
schedule                                                                                                   Special studies financed by the program     supervisors in the objectives of the
90% of the materials produced and acquired by the end of year three                                                 program
Data from SEEBAC's Statistical Department
75% of the preschool and basic education teachers effectively using the
learning resources by year three                                         Summary evaluations and the final report   SEEBAC dedicated and commirted to
making the changes required to imple-
90% of the materials called for in the component distributed correctly and  Legal documentation and appointment of  ment each component
systematically with community participation by year five                 staff
Parents react posidively to the activities
20% of the pupils in preschool and basic educadon using the learning re-                                             of program
sources efficiently by year three and 40% by year five
An administrative structure with
SEEBAC has an agency for the production and distribution of learning                                                 qualified personnel established
materials (improved Editorial Fund) from year one
A3.  National Subsystem for the Train-   2,000 basic education teachers satisfactorily complete a teacher training  Training evaluations                      Administrative structure and qualified
ing of Human Resources for the    program of 72 credits by year three und 3,600 by year five                                                           personnel established
education sector functioning                                                                                Monthly summnary progress reports
properly                          25% of basic education teachers are applying at least 85% of the basic content                                       Other components operating smnoothly
of the new curriculum by year three and 75% are applying it by year five  Warning reports
30% of basic education teachers are applying at least 40% of the methodolo-
gies of the new model by year three and 75% are applying them by year five
40% of textbooks and educational resources are in use by year three and 80%
by year five
20% of pupils in basic education are using strategies of the new curriculum by
year three and 65% by year five
25% of the pupils in basic education are actively participating in new learning
strategies by year three and 75 % by year five
166 education system support staff are participating in refresher training
programs by year five
A4.  National Testing System            26,000 grade-school teachers involved in national testing participate in three    Training evaluations                Teachers accept and opt for the new
institutionalized                 training workshops each year from year one to year five                                                               efforts
Progress reports
Ongoing training for 93 assistant supervisors from years one to five
The San Crist6bal Trining Center refurbished and in operation by end of
year one



ANNEX 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                          Page 4 of 6
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
B. PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
OBECTIVES                                                 ppc R                                                            A                                  AiSUMiTiONS
A5.  School Meal Program (PAE) func-  Chronic malnutrition rate in the pupil population reduced 10% by year five                                                World Food Program
tioning pmoperly for the neediest
pupil population                   Vitamin A deficiency in the pupi population reduced 15% by year five
Levels of anemia reduced 20% by year five
250,000 children benefit from school meal programs by year three and 300,000
by year five
300,000 children deparasitized by year three
6.000 parents and friends of the schools trained in nutritional education by
year three
A6.  Infrastructure and physical plant of  5, 125 classrooms repaired by year five                                  Procurement reports                         Executing Unit established
preschool and basic levels buit    4.900 classrooms maintained for year five                                  Progress reports
and/or rehabilitated in operation  70 classrooms replaced in 40 schools by year five                          Accomplishments reports                     Qualified personnel employed
73 schools enlarged and rehabiitated by end of year one                   Reports of assistants for decision-making
84 schools enlarged and rehabilitated by end of year two                  Monthly warning report
91 schools enlarged and rehabilitated by end of year three
84 schools enlarged and rehabilitated by end of year four
76 schools enlarged and rehabilitated by end of year five
10 schools enlarged and rehabiitated by end of year six
A7.  Pilot program of suppon for pri-    A study of options and criteria for attendance, during year one            Progress reports                            Acceptance of the program by the
vate schools serving poor popula-                                                                                                                         private schools
tion in operation                  Method and criteria for implementation and three NGOs identified for       Report on requests for financing
administration of project in year one
Number of NGOs and area served determined in year two
25 technicians of the SEEBAC Private Schools Directorate trained for
program by the end of year one
500 private school teachers trained by end of year five
150 directors and owners of private schools trained in school administration by
year five
200 private schools have new or repaired desks and blackboards by year five
Support for 100 private schools for basic libraries by year five
20% of private schools receive teaching materials by end of year five



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                ANNEX 4
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                Page 5 of 6
OBJECTIVES                                                                                                        VERIFICATIONKY.... S_____,_____'_____-. .
OBJFCrrVM  ~    ~        ~        ~        INICATORS                                      ......ASSUMMrON&
n.    ADM   STRAT-VE INPUTS
Bi.  Institutional capacity of SEEBAC    1,000 education staff members trained by end of year three and 2,460 by end   Training evaluations, expediting procedures    Teachers are interested in the training
stengthened for development of    of year five, including 50 associated with execution of SEEBAC budget, to be   for budgetary execution
preschool and basic education     trained through seminars/workshops
Special studies
120 trainers trained by the end of year three and 480 by end of year five
118 local and intemadional consultant-weeks by end of year five
B2.   Education management information  100 schools have computer equipment by year three and 504 by year five      Training evaluations                        Continued interest at highest levels of
system implemented                                                                                                                                       SEEBAC and more pardcipation by
190 Dl schools have (limited) messenger and administration systems by     Monthly summary progress report             civil society in continuance of program
year five
81 school districts and 11 school regions have computerized information
systems by year five
150 district and regional employees trained in informadon systems by year
three and 644 by year five
150 representatives of schools trained in information system by year three and                                                                                 4
694 by year five                                                                                                                                               .0
B3.   Associations of Fathers. Mothers    1,000 School Boards established for year three and 5,036 for year five    Training evaluations                        Motivation and better recognition of the
and Friends of the School                                                                                                                                 participative role of parents
(APMAE) strengthened and ac-       4,901 classrooms maintained for year five                                  Special studies
tively supporting the education                                                                                                                           Independence from political
process                            15,108 members of the APMAE trained by end of year one                                                                 manipulation
25 community projects completed by end of year three and 110 by end of year six
Average of 30 schools under Assistant Supervisor for Community Participation
from year two
A National School for Community Participation in Education ("open
classroom concept") in operation from the second half of year one
4,000 members of school maintenance commiitees trained in school building
maintenance techniques by year three and 10,072 by the end of year five
820 members of district boards of directors trained in assessment and project
preparadon by end of year three
20,000 parents and friends volunteer to help with the education process by
year five
The school supervision plan for assistance to children and teachers established
in 90% of schools by year five                                                                                         ________________



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                      ANNEX 4
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                       Page 6 of 6
B. PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                                                                      ..... .11...
OBJECTI1VES...          .                                      i.   .  : fICATORS                                             -ERI           N                   CASSUMPTIONS
B4.   Monitoring and evaluadon system        The Executing Unit set up and operating from the first half of year one           Training evaluations                             Professional staff qualified for work
operating efficiently                                                                                                                                                    appointed
90%  of the program  personnel using the montitoring subsystem  from the first   Monthly surnmary progress report
half of year one                                                                                                                  Project Execution Unit set up
Warn-ing reports
80% of senior SEEBAC stff using the monitoring subsystem for spot
decisions on the program from the first half of year two
A system of achievement and warning reports set up from the second half of
year one
4 training evaluations are performed yearly from year one
A summary evaluadon at the end of year five
n
0



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                   ANNEX 5
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
_______        ~~~Component A: Educational Development         ____ ______                   Management_Developet_____
Pilot Program
to Support
Educ-ational                                               Low- rIncome                                   Monitoing
'National   Materials    Human    National     School               Population of           Managemient             and
Cumiculum    and      Resources    Student    Nutrition  School         Private  Institutional  Inforration  Community  Evaluating
_____ _______________ Reform    Resources Development Assesnment   Programs  Facilities     Schools  Strenghening System      Participation System    PCU         FIV___
I. Inves-tme-nts-Costs                __            _                                                                                                            __       ___
-A. CivilWoriks  _   _                                _       I     7~~-                                                                                         _ -_
Minor Repairs               _                                    1684                                                                                     
Expansion    _ _ _       _ _ _ _I_ _ _ _                                                                                       4
Subtotal ClvIiWorks           __                                    415.86    _          33,900. 9     884.51        ---14.0                        ____35214.1
68. GoodsI
__ehicles _ _                                           19.3                  225.4                               783.0___51 5_____                   _25.6       142.4  _______
Printing                     86689  _5,`129.7       409.4 2---~1.1-         69152.   ____          _                                     95.9        1`14
Dkidactic MaterWias           79 4     6, 911.-7    56-3.8      6068.7     _                      2-27.6 _____   ____890.8  ___    ____
Computer Eqwipmfent           18.8       3.4.3 -     -4.8       152.8        74.9i __               3-2.5       355.9      2.653.6 _      7.2        380         92.5 ___
Office Equipment         _____            4.2        3.   ___         ___         ___                           337.8       301.7         0.7    ___             51-J
School Fumitture                       =       ____-          =3,390.0                                   -    =      -____
Office Fumniure                2.5                   23.91                   13.8                   72 1.02038
Subtotal Goods _____             965.6   12,079.9      105.41       782.6 ___966.4         3,390.0      981.1      1.476.7     3,00688 994.6            9363        330.0            - 28,122.7
C. TmaInIng, Technical__--.                                                                __
Assistance & Studies     ____
Training                   1,172.2         9.2     738          ,4.          25145          ,03                             3230 -      4824-        -90.2   ___
Technical Assistance         1,075 8 _    311 2        130 5      628.8 ___  -9R998  --3,0623.-4    - 20.6   _   269.4         659.3       289-6  ~1 6543         30  ____
Studies                      134         188542
Travel & Subsistence                      11.0       14.0       164.+5       16.3                                                       142___  ___9_-   1401    95.3            1-
Subtotal Train., TA, -&Studie-s{    2.38   __532___ _ 7            1,938.7     1,342.4     3,023.4     1,570.2  _2,069.7        982.3       914.9~                                        27,4250
E. Flncent                                                                                                                                           =     -   __es_ 
Total Investment Costs -       3,4.0   12401            588.1      3.13659     2,308.8    40,313.4     3451        3,546.4     4,003.1     1,909.5     1,978.21    3,815.3      520.0    88,812.6
ii. Recurrent Costs________ _____ _____
A. Recurrent Costs                               ___             __
Salaries                                                  _______                                                                                    _
Maintenance                                               ~~~     ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~6.7  7,829..4  281.8 _ _  21.7 - -606.5
OperatirngExpenses    .               
Consumnables  -                                                                                 _     - -2.1                                    129 8       6~ 41.9           -_
Micronutrients &
Vitamin Supplemrents-          -                                 1    1,149.21     --- _
Suibt-otal Recurrent Costs  II-159F                                                        724_ 2818  ___27                                 6B           19           491,6 
B. Supervision (Vihticos)  -                                  ______T___
Total Recurrent Costs   -   F        T1159                                                 724          288              1        21 i7      608.61      1281       6411                  10,669.1
Total PROJECT Costs            3,347 0    12,430 1     8,588.1     3,136.9     3,464.7    48,142.8     3,71 7.6 -   3,546.4    4,024.8     2,518.11    2,108.0~  4,457.21        52-0-0-   100,001.7
Tax-es                            77.3             -      9-4.2



52
ANNEX 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IBRD Disbursements by Semesters
(US$ millons)
Calendar                               IBRD
Year/Semester
Amount                 Cumulative
Disbursed
1996                1            2.3                         2.3
2            2.3                         4.6
1997                1            4.1                         8.7
2            4.1                        12.8
1998                1             4.8                       17.6
2            4.8                        22.4
1999                1             4.0                       26.4
2            3.0                        29.4
2000                1             3.0                       32.4
2            2.5                        34.9
2001                1             2.1                        37.0
37.0



5 3                          ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
DOMICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT REVIEW AND
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
1.    The composition and staffing level of the supervision program for each year of
project implementation are presented in Table 1. The supervision teams will be carefully
planned, and will consist of the Task Managers, MBRD and IDB staff, and consultants with
expertise in the areas of education (evaluation, teacher training, textbooks and
curriculum), community organization, information communication, management and
institutional development, procurement and project implementation. Supervision missions
will normally be conducted twice a year, in February and July, beginning in July of 1996.
All missions will involve discussions with project officials in SEEBAC headquarters, as
well as field visits, on the basis of which the mission will evaluate the project. A project
launch mission is included in the first year.
2.    Proiect Launch Seminar. A Project Launch Seminar will be conducted to: (a)
review implementation of the project's rules and procedures manual, and familiarize
SEEBAC with the project's monitoring procedures and changes in the banks guidelines
and procedures on procurement, disbursement and auditing requirements; and (b) review
the project requirements for progress reports on the implementation of the Annual Work
Programs.
3.    Annual Review.  The purpose of the annual review is to assess project
performance against specific objectives and targets, primarily through the analysis of two
documents: (a) the Project Implementation Report for the year under review; and (b) the
Project Plan for the next calendar year. Annual Reviews will take place in February of
each year.
4.   In Preparation for the Annual Project Review, the PCU  Coordinator, in
coordination with responsible units, will prepare and present to the Banks, no later than
February 1st of each year, the foliowing documents.
(i)   compliance with the Project Operations Manual;
(ii)  compliance with the covenants of the banks Loan
Agreements;
(iii) information pertaining to all Project Monitoring and
Impact Evaluation Indicators; and
(iv)  status of procurement of goods and services;
(v)   highlights of findings, lessons learned and problems
pertaining to the technical, institutional, administrative
or financial implementation of the project.



54
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Project Action Plan for the next calendar year, covering;
(i)   program  of activities for each subcomponent of the
project;
(ii)  schedule of activities for each subcomponent of the
project;
(iii) detailed procurement plan;
(iv)   detailed budget by source of funds and uses, for each
quarter, specifying counterpart funds;
(v)   specific reports when needed.
5.    Project Mid-Term Review. This review will be carried out in early 1999 jointly by
the Government, IDB and IBRD. The focus of the review is to ascertain to what extent
the project has achieved its development objectives. The PCU Coordinator will prepare
the same reports for the Project Mid-Term Review as for the Annual Project Reviews.
However, if special issues warrant more detailed analysis, additional studies will be carried
out.
6.    Modifications to Project Design and Implementation  Plans.  During Annual
Project Reviews and the Project Mid-Term Review, there is the opportunity to update
project targets and discuss changes needed in project design or implementation plans. In
this context, LBRD and IDB may require that SEEBAC prepare an action plan for the
Banks' review and approval within two months following the completion of the Project
Review. SEEBAC will incorporate the changes agreed upon in the Project documents,
including the Project Operations Manual if warranted. The PCU Coordinator will be
responsible for organizing the Mid-Term Project Review and ensuring that agreed follow-
up actions, satisfactory to the Banks, are taken in a timely manner.



1                                              .
jCIf 1                                 I           tl    I                  II"
~~--- - -- -- - - -- - -- --- - -- - -- -                                                                             --- ------ 0



56                                           ANNEX 8
Page lof 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Educational Financing: Trends and Projections'
1.      Overview. The evolution of public expenditure on education in the Dominican Republic
shows a pattern of decline over the 1980s: public expenditure on education as a share of GDP declined
from  1.9 to 0.9 percent between 1982 and 1991; and public expenditure on education as a share of total
public expenditure fell from about 13 percent in 1985 to 5 percent in 1991 (Annex Table 1). These
levels of public expenditure were very low, as compared with those in other countries in the region
(Annex Table 2).
2.      With the onset of the Ten-Year Plan, the Government began to reverse the expenditure trend
for education. The importance placed on improving public education, especially basic education
services, is expected to continue over the foreseeable future. The shift is demonstrated in increases in
salaries for teachers and SEEBAC staff since 1991, and in the share of the discretionary Presidential
Fund directed to school investments. With GDP conservatively estimated to grow at 3 percent over the
next five to 10 years, Plan targets for increasing public expenditure on education to 2.9 percent of GDP
and about 16 percent of total public expenditure by 2000 appear to be reasonable. (Annex Table 1).
Table l: Education Financing: Overview
Item      GDP            Public         Public Education      Public Education          SEEBAC
(Nominal)     Expenditure         Expenditure           Expenditure           Expenditure
(% of GDP)          (% of GDP)          (% Pub. Exp.)       (  PubI. Ed. Exp.)
85         -             12.1                 1.5                  12.7                   89
90        65             11.1                 1.1                   7.5                   76
91        100            10.2        _         0.9                  5.1                   56
92        112            15.0        _          1.3                 5.9                   66
93        121            16.9                 1.7                   6.6                   67
94        141            16.3                 1.8                   7.6                   67
95        145            16.6                 1.9                  12.5                   68
96        149            16.8                 2.0                  13.8                   70
97        154            17.1                 2.1                  14.2                   72
98        158             17.4                2.2                  14.8                   74
99        163            17.7                 2.3                  15.3                   76
00        168             18.1                2.4                  15.5                   78
01        173             18.4                2.5                  15.4                   80
02        178             18.7                2.7                  15.5                   82
03        184             19.0                2.8                  15.5                   84
04        189             19.4                2.9                  15.6                   86
05        195             19.7                3.1                  15.7                   88
06        201            20.0                 3.2                  15.8                   90
Notes:    Assumes 3% growth in GDP. The difference between SEEBAC Expenditure and Public Education Expenditure is explained mainly by
the financing provided through the Presidential Fund.
Source:    For Tables 1, 3, 4 and 5: Ceara, Miguel. Estudio Financiero- El Gasto Publico en Educaci6n 1985-94 y Proyecciones para 1995-
2006; CIECA, June 1995.
This Armex is drawn from: Ceara, Miguel; Estudio Financiero: El Gasto Publico en Educaci6n 1985-94 y Proyecciones para 1995-2006;
CIECA, June 1995. The study was carried out as part of preparation for the proposed project. The detailed assumnptions underlying the
projections for financing are described in the study.



57                                ANNEX 8
Page2 of 4
Table 2: Comparison: Public Education Expenditure
Public Expenditure  Government Exp. On
As % GDP (1989)    Educ. As % Public Eip.
Year
Costa Rica                4.4             19         1991
El Salvador               2.0             14         1989
Guatemala                 1.8             20         1990
Honduras                  4.6             15         1992
Nicaragua                 3.9             18         1992
Mexico                    3.8             14         1991
Panami                    6.2             17         1992
Dominican Republic        1.1 (1990)       5         1991
Source: UNDP, 1992; IBRD.
3.    The average share for basic education in public expenditure for education reached a high
of about 81 percent in 1994 and is expected to level off at about 70 percent by 2005, which is
appropriate for preschool through grade 8 (Annex Table 3). The allocation of expenditure on
basic education by type shows a relatively high share for capital expenditure through 1995. This
is explained by the share of expenditure attibutable to the Presidential Fund. Projections
incorporate a decreasing demand for such expenditure at the end of the Plan period and beyond,
when the backlog of major physical requirements will have been met. They also assume
continuing increases in salary and non-salary incentives for teachers and gradual incorporation of
off-budget financing into the regular SEEBAC budget.
4.    Total public expenditure per student (capital and current)in basic education rose by a
factor of 3 during the period 1990-94 (to about US$102) and is expected to increase by an
additional 55 percent by 2000 (to US$169) and a further 16 percent by 2005 (to US$196) (Annex
Table 4). Over the period 1995-2005 enrollment in basic education is expected to grow by
250,000 (20 percent) as shown below:
Number of Students
1995         1.27 million
2000         1.48 million
2005         1.52 million
5.    The Project. The proposed project forms a share of overall Plan expenditures as
projected through 2000. The incremental recurrent costs incorporated in project financing are
relatively low, averaging US$2.3 million per year, principally as a result of the manner in which
these costs are defined. They incorporate mainly operating expenses for the PCU and materials
for routine maintenance of classrooms. Other high cost components, including educational
materials, teacher training, the national assessment, construction and rehabilitation of facilities, as
well as monitoring and evaluation and the management development component (including
institutional, MIS and community participation support) are considered to be investment items.



58                                    ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
To sustain financing for project inputs beyond the implementation period an estimated US$12
million in incremental recurrent financing would be required annually. Annex Table 5 shows that
during project implementation the project would represent annually from 7 to 14 percent (average
10 percent) of total expected public expenditure on education and from 9 to 18 percent (average
14 percent) of expected public education expenditure on basic education. Beginning the year
after project completion, the incremental financing requirement attributable to project inputs
would represent 4 and 5 percent, respectively, of public education expenditure and public
expenditure on basic education.
Table 3: Structure of Public Expenditure on SEEBAC Program (%)
Basic   Secondary    Nornal*    Tech.    Adult    Total
1990     75          16           1         3         5        100
1995      80         13           -         2         5        100
2000      73         20                      2         5       100
2005      71         21           -          2         6       100
* For normal schools (teacher training institutions) the share is less than 0.5 percent in 1995-2005.
Table 4: Basic Education: Per Student Expenditure by Type (%)
Total (1994 RD$)         Personnel           Materials    Capital      Total
Salary       Non-Salary   & Supplies
1990        422              70            5            1           24         100
1995        1480             65            6            5           24         100
2000        2220             73            7            6           14         100
2005        2568             77            6            6           1 1        100



59                                              ANNEX 8
Page 4of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Financial Impact of the Project on Projected Resources Available
for SEEBAC Programs (1994 prices)
1994        1l5 1996                1997        1998        1999        2000       2001
Public Expenditr on
SEEBAC Progras*
In RDS  _Ins                2147         2050        2157       2315        2524        2753        3010       3321
1i USS  mbu..                164          156         164        176         193         210         230        254
Publc Expenditar on
SEEBAC Badc Ed.
In RDS m_n                 1738         1633        1693       1690        1924        2073        2240       2444
In USS _Nn                   133          125         129        129         147          158        171        187
Totwl Project Cost
In USS mhn.                                            12         22          26          22          18
Project Cods s %__
Public Expend. on
SEEBAC Progra_*                                         7         12          14           10          8
Public Expend. on
SEEBAC Badc Ed.                                         9         17          18           14         10
Project Annual Iner. Coat
post-huplnentaton (USS
_In)                                                                                                              9
As % Public Expnd. on
SEEBAC Proams                                                                                                     4
As % Public Expnd. on
SEEBAC Basic Ed.                                                                                                  5
Notes:  'Actual (1994) and projected SEEBAC resources incorporates SEEBAC's budget as well as funds from the
current Presidential Fund.
" *Project costs incorporate IDB, IBRD and Government contributions, investment and incremental recurrent
outlays.



6o
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Economic Benefits of the Project
1.    Available data permit only general estimates of selected benefits that would accrue
as a result of expenditures under the Ten-Year Development Plan, of which the project
forms a share. These estimates of potential economic benefits are presented below.
2.    During the first half of the Plan period (1991-95), key indicators of efficiency
within basic education, for student repetition and completion, improved; these indicators
are targeted to improve further by the end of the Plan period (2000).
1991            1995             2000
Repetition (Annual %)              20               13               10
Completion (% for a cohort         20               45               50
completing grade 8)
The changes in repetition and completion rates demonstrate a response to Plan
expenditure as a whole, indicating improvements in school effectiveness. Data currently
available do not permit attribution of particular improvements to particular inputs. With
improved salaries and training, teachers should be providing an improved quality of
education. Materials are also being provided for students on a regular basis as is school
nutrition for the rural and urban poor. Classroom facilities and sanitation conditions have
improved. In line with available research findings, these school inputs help to improve
both student performance and attendance, and especially for the poor, to mitigate non-
school factors impinging on participation. The introduction of the national assessment and
increased involvement of parents at the school level is also expected to increase
accountability among teachers and school directors, resulting in both quality
improvements and in gains in efficiency of use of school resources. Over the medium-
term, the addition of the preschool year to basic education should also have an impact on
school quality and efficiency by improving student achievement in the early grades where
repetition is highest.
3.    Savings from Reduced Repetition. Improvements in school quality are assumed
to explain a substantial share of the reduction in student repetition achieved and targeted.
Related reductions in the number of years required to produce a graduate of basic
education constitute a savings for the system.



61
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Students Enrolled   Students Repeating   Student-Years Saved
(Grades 1 -_8)*
1990              948,000            189,600
1995            1,180,000            153,400               36,200
2000            1,356,000             135,600               17,800
* excludes preschool students
The aggregate savings, based on recurrent cost per student, amounted to about US$4.05
million per year by 1995 and would rise to US$6.05 million by 2000 (about 3 percent of
projected expenditure on SEEBAC programs).
4.    Benefits from Completing Basic Education. Benefits resulting from completion
of basic education compared with non-completion are represented by additional earnings.
These benefits, calculated using a rate of return model (Psacharapoulos and Ng) are:
Private      15 percent (for students completing grade 8 compared
to those completing grade 4)
Social       14 percent (for students completing grade 8)
The benefits would accrue increasingly as the share of students completing basic education
rises. The earnings differential is of the order of US$23 per month (40 percent) for the
age group 13-50. The estimated annual benefit would be of the order of US$120 million
for the cohort completing grade 8 in 2000 (as completion rates increase from 20 percent in
1992 to 50 percent).
5.    Other Benerits. Quantified savings from anticipated management improvements
and from higher employment and productivity rates for graduates of basic education of
improved quality are not quantified here; and no attempt is made to quantity the benefits
of community participation. In combination with improved school inputs (e.g., student
and teacher materials, teacher training), however, the increased local participation of
parents is expected to significantly improve school effectiveness. Results of a recent pilot
to monitor teacher and student attendance through parent associations were positive. As
parents become more involved, they could be expected to create pressure for raising
school quality and accountability at the school level.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                ANNEX 10
Page I of 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCIIEDULE
Activi(y                                  1995      =      =      1996                   1997                   1998                   1999                  2000
1   2341234123412341234    1234~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4- 11
1 23 14  1 12  3-  _ - 2  _ 3  _  _  - 4  1  2  34
A. Curriculum Reform
I. Dissemination                                                       _ _
2. Implerntution Support
3. Support to Innovation and Studies
4. ManagemeM Support
P Learning Resources
I. Produdion ud Procuremet of Mateuils                                         _    _     _
2. Staff Training
3. Instilutional Strengthening
4. Distribution
C. lunman Rearcts
1. Institutional Strengthening
2. Teacher Training Design po
3. Teacher Training
4 Degec Psogarna
5. Technical an Support Staff
D. National Asarssment
I .Institutionalization
2. Strengthening Design
3. Strengthening Administration
4. Dissemination or Results
F- School Nutrition
I. Training
2. Nutrilional Supplementstion
3. Pessite Erradication                                                            -                _                _           _-_-_                        _     -     _-   _-
4. Irnilutional Strengthening                                                            _    -                                  _    _           -                       -    - _
5 lnf Education/Conununications Programn
F. Physical tnrr1structure
I. Prepsration
2. Phasel                                                                                             -                          
3. Phasn II
4. PaIne III



DOMINICAN REPUBILIC                                                                            ANNEX 10
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                Page 2 of 2
PIROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCIIEDULE
Activity                                  1995      =--          5 996    _              1997                   1998     _             1999              -   2000
.                               l ~~~~~~~~~~2  3  4  1 12  3  4--_ _                                        2 3 14 _               2- 13  _-4 2-_ 4
C. Support to Privale Schools,
1. Maagemenl Strengthening. C.P.                                                                          _    _   .       _
2. Upgrading Teachers                                                                          _
3. School Improvemen_i
4 Inorrmation Systern for C.P_
I. Institutional Str;enghenlngrtralning
Ft I. Strenglhening
F.I. Training
1-3. Wohkshops                                                                    -    -     -                                       _           _                      -
4 -S. Training                                             _ _                _                 _ _
6. Technical Assistance
7. Studies
I. lnrormallonSyatens 
1. Basic Inrormation
2. Network DevelopmeAt
3. Network Integration
4. Strengthening lluman Resouces                                                                    _    _    _            __                                     --_- _
J. Ntwork Coolidation                                            _                                              - _  _                                                                   -
J. Communily PrticlpaUon                 _  _  _  _         _       _                                              - _  _ _
I Estbliahmal of School for Participation                                                                  _ _
2. Departmental Strengthening                                                _                            _                                                                              -
3. Strenthening APMAE
4. Support for Conununity Paticipation                                                                                     - _ _                        - _         -    -    -    -
SPromotion                                                                                                _                - _    _    _          _
6. Conesses Medings A Evaluation                                       _=-                                           =_-    
KKKM----.-t _--_ _                                                                                                                    -- - -
IK. Management of P'rojed
LI. Management
K.2. Mondioring
I. Admsiniatration
2. Monitoring                                                                                                                                                          
3. Evaluation                                                                -    -    -             -
LXIMPSCHDLJoc



64
ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE IBRD PROJECT FILE
A. Project Preparation Documents
I .   Curriculum Transformation
2.   Learning Resources
3    Human Resources Formation for Education System
4.   Preschool Education
5.   Support to Poor Private Schools
6.   Nutrition
7.   Information System for Education Management
8.   Infrastructure
9.   National Tests Systems
10.   Institutional Strengthening
11.   Educational Management Training
12.   Community Participation
13.   Program Administration
14.   Study: Monitoring and Evaluation System
15.   Study: Community Participation
16.   Study: Financial Analysis
17    Study: Socio-Economic
18.   Study: Rotatory Funds
19.   Study: SEEBAC Education Statistics
B.    Other Government Documents
1.   Plan Decenal
2.   Pacto Social
3.   Mid-Term Review -Loan 33S1-DO



IBRD I 9599R
7z'                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~71'                                         0Jo                                                     69.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
-203                                  A                                                                                                                                                                             20- -
_Internationol boundories
Luperon                                                                   Province boundaries
Monte Cristi                                  t                                                                ) Notional caPiaol
Puerto Plato                                    *  Province capitals
*  Towns
.edo     |  PM T                                                                                               -    a,roads
_OO/GUEZ       <        San lose                           @      senor ers
Restauran *         -                 y VA N TI A Vc    <    -        Li \ Y      Hon de fr'
HAITI     *j~~~~k                                                             5PIIA
. ~  ~     BARC                                                PEPAbn  V/A_,  (,CI_OA IM    V_                                                    U- P MA ASlA TAG//A C/A
<   t  _  ~~~~~>r-~~~~t  S         \   f  ;a~~~~mboril                 r   0)  R/N/D0A D
!DAJAgON@5tobonhfo  /   So n  f    Ua Cr t6SANCHEZf
,/S    $) ,   ~~RODR/GUfEZ( '           Son Jost           ,-!ocTenres                                 Naua
de I Motas~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bcadlm
\    r  '   ,               *                ( \    ,,*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J\    v       aFrancisco de MocorisJ 
Resfaacroln      r        SA   A     N     5 A Al T/r G O       ,JA _SM N
H A I T I                                                                  L ' -  8 CVm               =-mn
PEGEPNA IFS                                                                                                                                                   no~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
,f  ELIAS PINA  0           ts        \ ~~9             >       ,'-)7\\rt  ,|na   Y       "  E '
Of' ~    ~      _/                       I>z  L_\                                     SA A   L t Ctl<|'
r  Bo  RA MIREx7  (bnaches                                                      E_t
j C.m.nd.do, tsinza \        _        r^<                JX,    <    NOUc%Av M  O N T E 0    P(rPt HAm7                                            M              y                 El lFcca     A
g~~  ~       ~ ~~~~~~ /V t)      LI  N            >>R VA>>>                                                                                                                           
*</NDIFPFNDENa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EO                                                                                              SEIBOle
iPedernales~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~                                                                                                                 ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Iw e/ Ja_'-
PEDf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ZN LI iS\
o    o i    i    o 50               , 't0 V    01                                           t  ts *    XlASU
7m a                                                   rNscLr9n                                         k












