                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                                        Report No: 27452

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (CPL-39510 SCL-3951A SCPD-3951S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$37 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

                                        DO- BASIC EDUCATION




                                           December 29, 2003




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                       Currency Unit = Dominican Peso (DMP)
   38 DMP (December 11, 2003, 2003) = US$ 1.00
                            US$ 1.00 = 0.026316 DMP

                              FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1     December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Asssistance Strategy
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LAC          Latin America and the Caribbean
LCSHD        Latin American and the Caribbean Sector of Human Development
MIS          Management Information System
OCI         Office for International Cooperation
PA           Parent Associations
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
POAs         Annual Operation Plan
SEE          State Secretariat of Education
SOE          Secretariat of Education
ROR          Rate of Return
USAID        United States Aid for International Development



                      Vice President:      David De Ferranti
                   Country Director        Caroline D. Anstey
                     Sector Director       Ana Maria Arriagada
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Sam Carlson

                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                 DO- BASIC EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P035494                                                  Project Name: DO- BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Samuel C. Carlson                                       TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: DO- BASIC EDUCATION                                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-39510; SCL-3951A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3951S
   Country/Department: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                 Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (70%); Central government administration
                            (17%); Tertiary education (9%); Health (2%); Other social services
                            (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (P); Nutrition and food security (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (S); Access to urban services for the
                            poor (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/13/1994                                     Effective: 12/31/1996                10/24/1997
     Appraisal: 05/15/1995                                         MTR: 02/28/1999                  03/20/2000
      Approval: 11/09/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Dominican Republic/Secretary of Education; Government of
                                           Dominican Republic/Arts and Culture
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Kenneth Lay
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Kae Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:             Sam Carlson
ICR Primary Author:             Sam Carlson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objectives were to: (a) improve the quality of basic education; (b) increase enrollment and
especially completion rates, with priority directed to children from low income families; and (c) strengthen
technical and resource management capabilities for basic education.

These objectives were clear, realistic and important for the education sector and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) in the Dominican Republic. The objectives were consistent with the
Government's 10-Year Education Plan (1990-2000), particularly with the Consolidation Phase of this Plan
(1996-2000). They were responsive to borrower circumstances and development priorities. With respect
to the CAS (May 1995), increased educational attainment (improved quality, coverage and internal
efficiency) is explicitly stated as an objective.

Project design benefited from lessons learned during implementation of the first phase of the Ten-Year
Plan, as well as from mid-term review of the Primary Education Development Project conducted by the
IBRD in January 1995. These lessons included the need to: increase the role of project stakeholders;
consolidate 10-Year Plan implementation (including of IBRD and IDB-financed projects) within the
Secretariat of Education (as opposed to within project coordination units); and ensure adequate government
financing for basic education.

However, the project was somewhat complex, with a total of twelve sub-components. While the project
was coordinated by a single Project Coordination Unit, it drew on Secretariat of Education (SEE) staff
from dozens of departments and units for decision-making and implementation management. There was a
single institution involved, with a relatively competent implementing agency, and only one major
co-financier (IDB). Unfortunately, both the implementation and co-financing arrangements experienced
problems, as will be seen later.


3.2 Revised Objective:

None.

3.3 Original Components:

The educational development component (US$82.8 million, including contingencies) had seven
sub-components:

1.      Revision of the national curriculum for basic education (US$3.4 million);
2.      Institutionalization of the provision of updated educational materials, including texts and
workbooks for all public school students, sales to private schools and provision of complementary
materials and supplies for low-income students (US$12.4 million);
3.      Provision of training for about 12,600 teachers, school directors and supervisors in core subjects
and teaching techniques (US$8.6 million);
4.      Improvement of student assessment system (US$3.1 million);
5.      Strengthening of the Secretariat of Education's (SOE) capacity to design and manage school
nutrition programs (US$3.5 million);
6.      Rehabilitation/construction of 6,800 classrooms (including 1,000 for pre-school), and preventive
maintenance for 4,900 schools based on a           cost-sharing arrangement between Parent Associations


                                                      - 2 -

(PA) and SOE (US$48.1 million); and
7.       Support for a pilot program to upgrade private schools serving low-income students (US$3.7
million).

Viewed in their ensemble, these seven sub-components were reasonably related to achieving the objectives
of improving educational quality, enrollment and internal efficiency at the basic education level,
particularly for low-income students. A holistic approach was taken here, including infrastructure,
curriculum reform, teaching/learning materials, training, assessment and school nutrition, reflecting lessons
learned from the Bank's long experience in the sector. Unfortunately, the design was overly optimistic with
respect to the qualitative classroom-level changes in teaching and learning which would be brought about
through formal, diploma-based, university-centered in-service teacher training.

The management development component (US$16.7 million, including contingencies) focused on
gradual de-concentration of responsibilities, training, technical assistance and equipment to regional
authorities. It had five sub-components:

1.       Strengthening of SEE management procedures and administrative capacity (US$3.6 million);
2.       Improvement in use of management information for basic education (US$4.0 million);
3.       Expansion of the roles and capacities of parents associations in decision-making to the areas of
school planning, performance and monitoring         (US$2.1 million);
4.       Support for monitoring and evaluation of basic education (US$2.6 million);
5.       Project Coordination Unit (US$4.5 million) and IDB supervision and inspection fees (US$0.5
million).

These sub-components were directly linked to the project objective of improving technical and resource
management capabilities for basic education. They focused on institutional capacity-building at central and
decentralized levels, and sought to establish a comprehensive communications system for exchange and
processing of information for improved decision-making.

Equally important, the project promoted increased parental and community participation for greater
accountability and provided incentives for increased local initiatives targeting school improvements through
a district-level competitive funding process. Increased stakeholder participation reflects lessons learned
from other projects in the Dominican Republic and around the world in the education sector.

Finally, the monitoring system aimed at tracking project performance indicators for each component to
ensure focus on results (including beneficiary surveys), while the evaluation system was designed to
measure the project's impact. Specifically, annual evaluations were intended to assess impact and
cost-effectiveness of each project component, as defined by progress on key basic education performance
indicators: repetition rates; enrollment rates; completion rates; instructional time; public expenditures on
education; and student achievement measured by national assessment examinations. Such comprehensive
evaluation indicators are an element of good project design and the importance of focusing on the project's
true impact rather than on inputs. However, it should be pointed out that no monitoring or evaluation
indicators were established for assessing the project's impact on poor students.

While strong in design from a technical perspective, these activities did not fully correspond to the SEE's
administrative and financial management capacity at regional levels, nor did they reflect the limited buy-in
among central level staff for (i) "de-concentration", (ii) promotion of private schools for low-income
families, and (iii) increased community participation. Secondly, true progress in these key basic education
indicators was at least partially dependent on the Government's willingness to significantly increase


                                                      - 3 -

recurrent spending on this sub-sector on a sustainable basis, which simply was never fully demonstrated.

3.4 Revised Components:

In October 2000 the project design was amended. While established development objectives remained, the
project focused remaining funds in the first component (about US$4 M) on three broad initiatives: (1)
textbook printing and distribution; (2) implementation of transfers to support school-based maintenance
activities; and (3) an early childhood education pilot program. Unallocated resources were assigned to
these three initiatives, and the sub-component to support private schools was reduced. The
sub-components for classsroom construction and rehabilitation, curriculum reform and training were not
changed. This was not a major amendment, but it was significant in that it reflected the incoming
Administration's focus on basic education textbook supply, and expanding access to kindergarten (age 5)
which was made obligatory in the 1997 Education Law.

These revised components promoted increased decentralization through community participation, increased
coherence with the IDB loan, and provided an opportunity to finance an early childhood pilot program
which greatly facilitated the government's readiness at entry for the Bank's new Early Childhood Education
Project. At the same time, the sub-component to support private schools in poor areas was essentially
dropped for lack of interest by the new Government for this activity, although efforts were undertaken at
the institutional level to strengthen the SEE's knowledge and oversight of private schools.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Overall, a satisfactory performance rating is assigned for quality at entry, although this would not apply
to all aspects of project design. Project objectives were consistent with the CAS, government priorities and
the Bank's safeguard policies. Project components and sub-components were directly linked to
achievement of project objectives, and reflected numerous lessons learned from previous education projects,
with the exception of the project objective aimed at prioritizing the needs of poor children (see below).

A highly satisfactory performance rating is not assigned primarily because of overly optimistic assumptions
regarding (a) the Government's commitment to increasing basic education spending and maintaining project
activities, including through presidential transitions, and (b) the ability of the SEE Project Coordination
Unit to smoothly implement activities in the context of rigid co-financing arrangements between the World
Bank and IDB. Different project timeframes, procurement procedures and institutional priorities between
the two banks made it extremely difficult for the PCU to coordinate activities, especially when this required
both timely Government counterpart financing and strong implementation capacity within the SOE.
Ultimately, this co-financing arrangement was abandoned after the mid-term project review in favor of a
parallel financing arrangement.

Furthermore, while the Project Appraisal Document pays lip-service to targeting of project investments on
children from poor families, no mechanism was put in place to ensure this actually happened. Of the 12
sub-commponents only one ("Sub-Component 7: Support for a pilot program to upgrade private schools
serving low-income students") explicitly focuses on poor children, and this sub-component was
subsequently abandoned for the most part. The design of the Development Impact Indicators also failed to
include any specific information concerning targetting on poor children, leading to the conclusion that this
aspect of the project simply was not adequately valued during project design. In other words, there is an
apparent disconnect between the specific project objective of prioritizing low-income children, the project
design and the way it was implemented.



                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the project's outcome is rated as Satisfactory, having achieved most of its major relevant
objectives and development results, with a few shortcomings. The PAD defined a matrix of performance
indicators to assess achievement of the project's development objectives and impact. Results are largely,
though not uniformly positive, as seen below.




                                                    - 5 -

                               Table 1: Development Objectives/Impact Indicators

                                                                           Achieved          Achieved
                                          Impact Indicator                 Trend             Target
Objective: Expand Access at
the Basic Level
                                          Increase in Net
                                          Enrollment rate for basic YES                      YES
                                          education (5% per year)
                                          Increase in the
                                          Percentage of Students           YES               YES(1)
                                          who finish 8th grade
                                          (from 25% to 50%)
Objective: Improve Quality and
Effectiveness of Basic Education
                                          Increase in academic
                                          achievement in core skills YES                     YES
                                          in Spanish and
                                          Mathematics (5%
                                          improvement on national
                                          tests in 8th grade)
                                          Reduction in Dropout             YES               YES
                                          Rate (from 11.7% to
                                          5.1%)
                                          Reduction in Repetition          YES/NO            YES/NO
                                          Rate (from 14.7% to                                (2)
                                          11.7%)
                                          Increase in class                YES               YES
                                          instruction time (to 770
                                          hours annually)
Objective: Increase Public
Expenditure on Basic Education
                                          Increase education
                                          expenditures as a share          YES               NO (3)
                                          of GDP (from 1.9% to
                                          2.8%)
                                          Increase education
                                          expenditures as a share          YES               NO (4)
                                          of overall public
                                          expenditures (from
                                          13.4% to 16%)
                                          Increase per student             YES               NO (5)
                                          expenditure (from $106
                                          to US$186)

Footnote 1: The projected 8th grade completion rate for 2003 is 53 percent, although this is based on assumptions of trends
derived from 2002 data (Source: Oficina de la Planificacion Educativa, SEE).



                                                            - 6 -

Footnote 2: Repetition declined from 13 percent (1994) to 7 percent (2001), well below the target of 10 percent. But changes
in how repetition is calculated appears largely responsible for this. Using new methodology, the repetition rate increased from
5 percent (1996) to 7 percent (2001), below the target but an increase nonetheless. (Source: Oficina de la Planificacion
Educativa, SEE)
Footnote 3: The 2003 approved budget allocated 2.3 percent of GDP to education, down from 3.0 percent in 2002. (Source:
World Bank, Public Expenditure Review, August 2003)
Footnote 4: Total education expenditures as a share of total expenditures increased from 13.4 percent (1996) to 16.9 percent in
2000, before declining to 15.6 percent in 2001. Basic education spending as a share of total education spending declined from
50 percent (1996) to 46 percent (2001). (Source: World Bank, Public Expenditure Review, August 2003)
Footnote 5: Per student spending (direct costs) increased from US$106 (1996) to US$168 (2001), a 58 percent increase, but
still below the target of US$186. If indirect costs are included (administration, pedagogical services, educational planning,
etc.), per student spending was US$242 (2001), surpassing the target. (Source: Final Report, Gestion Moderna)



With respect to the objective of improving educational quality, mixed results are seen. Student
performance in 8th grade in national assessment exams showed significant improvements in mathematics
and Spanish (above and beyond project targets), modest improvements in social sciences, and declines in
natural sciences. (Caution should be used, however, in using the national assessments to measure student
learning over time, as these examinations have changed radically and frequently, and are subject to
extensive criticism.)


Table 2: Average Scores on 8th Grade National
Assessment Exams by Subject and Year


 Subject                          1997/98         1998/99            2000/01
 Spanish                          59.3            69.1               72.7
 Math                             59.3            71.5               60.7
 Social Sciences                  53.8            65.2               56.3
 Natural Sciences                 60.9            51.5               51.1
 Global Average                   55.2            64.3               60.2
 Source : SEE ­ Department of National Examinations


Furthermore, despite major investments in teacher training to improve pedagogical methods and practices,
discussions with teachers and classroom observations indicate that while they largely support the goals of
the curricular and pedagogical reform, their own capacity to apply their training in their classrooms in
concrete ways remains quite weak. This is linked to delays and deficiencies in the supply of learning
materials to classrooms, which forced teachers to maintain traditional "chalk-and-talk" teaching practices.

Concerning the objective of improving basic education enrollments and efficiency, stronger although
still mixed results are observed. Overall project enrollment targets were surpassed ­ gross basic education
enrollment increased from 91 percent (1996/97) to 113 percent (2001/02), while net enrollment increased
from 73 percent to 94 percent during the same period, largely surpassing the project's goal of increasing
enrollment by 5 percent.

However, this goal was not reached in all grades of basic education, and poorest provinces showed the least
improvement. Provinces with a percentage of poor households exceeding 37 percent increased enrollments
by an average of just 3 percent annually, while those with a percentage of poor households below 21
percent increased enrollments by an average of more than 6%, twice as fast. In general, urban zones
increased enrollment more than rural areas.



                                                               - 7 -

Internal efficiency of basic education improved significantly, though not quite as much as forecast by the
project. Dropout rates declined during project execution (from 16 percent to 5 percent), completion rates
increased (from 25 percent to 53 percent), and the percentage of over-age students declined dramatically.
Unfortunately, and somewhat inexplicably, repetition rates increased from 5.5 percent (1996/97) to 7.3
percent (2001/02). (Data comes from Educational Statistics Department of SOE. Note that in the PAD
repetition rates were estimated at 13 percent in 1996, and forecast to decline to 10 percent in 2000. Thus,
while repetition rates increased, they nonetheless remained below the project's stated objective. Data
inconsistencies may be at play here.) The net result of all these trends is that the total number of years of
schooling required to produce a basic education graduate declined by more than 15 percent, from 13.5
years (1996/97) to 11.4 years (2001/02).

By increasing access to basic education and early childhood the project benefited primarily the children
from low income families (middle class and upper class students attend private schools). The successful
school feeding program which has been expanded to universal coverage for Grades 1-8 reaching 16
percent of the country's total population on a daily basis has also a substantial impact on poverty
reduction. Nevertheless the project was less successful in prioritizing. Several project sub-components
which were initially designed as targeted on poor children (school feeding, provision of school supplies and
textbooks, school facility improvements) were subsequently "universalized, so that all children in basic
education could benefit. In addition, the specific subcomponent aimed to reach children attending private
schools in poor barrios was ultimately abandoned in favor of the SEE's institutional strengthening of its
knowledge and oversight of private schools in general

4.2 Outputs by components:

The first component, educational development (representing 83 percent of project expenditures), was
achieved satisfactorily. Basic education enrollments and internal efficiency objectives were almost
entirely achieved. Qualitative improvements may or may not have occurred - deficiencies in the national
testing system (discussed above) and data generated from this system make it very difficult to draw a
definitive conclusion.

The second component, management development, (representing 17 percent of project expenditures)
was also achieved satisfactorily, although not entirely. All management capacity-building initiatives
were carried out, over 6,000 parent associations were established, and most evaluation activities were
completed. Interviews with SEE staff and education donors all suggest increased use of management
information systems for decision-making, and enhanced ability of line departments and divisions within the
SEE (as opposed to the Project Coordination Office) to develop and implement annual work plans.
However, it is very hard to measure the impact of this enhanced management capacity in terms of the
delivery of basic educational services, and it is clear that there is still a long way to go in increasing the
participation and effectiveness of community members in school management to improve learning
outcomes.




                                                      - 8 -

The following table provides a snapshot of sub-objectives achieved, surpassed or un-achieved, by project
sub-component.



                        Table 3: Quantitative Achievement of Project Objectives

                                                Number of               Number of
                          Number of      Sub-Objectives Achieved       Sub-Objectives     Success
Sub-Component           Sub-Objectives         or Surpassed            Un-Achieved          Rate
Reform of National
Curriculum                    5                      4                      1               80%
Learning Materials
and Resources                 9                      8                      1               89%
Human Resource
Development                   4                      2                      2               50%
National Assessment           5                      1                      4               20%
School Nutrition              4                      3                      1               75%
Infrastructure                7                      6                      1               86%
Support to Poor
Private Schools               7                      2                      5               29%
Institutional
Strengthening                 5                      4                      1               80%
Management
Information System            3                      2                      1               67%
Community
Participation                 6                      5                      1               83%
Monitoring and
Evaluation                    4                      3                      4               75%



As can be seen in Table 3, project sub-component objectives were largely achieved in the areas of
curriculum reform, learning materials, infrastructure and community participation. They were generally
un-achieved in the areas of national assessment, support to poor private schools, and
monitoring/evaluation. A mixed result is seen in the areas of human resource development and
management information systems.

Curricular Reform: Rating ­ Highly Satisfactory More than 80,000 educators were trained in the new
curriculum, compared to 50,000 projected during project appraisal. 420,000 copies of pedagogic materials
were produced and distributed, as opposed to 300,000 projected. 150,000 audio-visual learning materials
were produced and distributed, versus 10,000 projected. Distribution of laboratory equipment fell short of
project objectives.

Distribution of Learning Materials: Rating ­ Highly Satisfactory More than 22 million textbooks were
produced and distributed (compared to 18.6 million forecast). All pre-school, multigrade and first cycle
classrooms received the projected didactic materials, library books and educational games. Teacher
instructional materials were not produced nor distributed as forecast. However, while the total quantity of
textbooks distributed exceeded forecasts, there were major problems with distribution such that some



                                                    - 9 -

school districts experienced significant shortages while others struggled to find warehouse space for the
surplus.

Human Resources Development: Rating ­ Satisfactory 5,745 teachers obtained the "profesorado" level
(versus 3,000 planned); 3,536 teachers attained their "licenciatura" degree (versus 6,000 planned) ; and
2,412 technical staff obtained post-graduate degrees (versus 300 planned). This shows a very strong
demand for post-graduate study, although it is not apparent this resulted in changes in classroom teaching
and learning. Sadly, no database exists of the teachers who participated in the training, nor confirmation
that teachers actually attended the training, exposing the risk that teachers were simply paid scholarships
and universities were paid for training, which may or may not have been actually conducted. In addition,
the decision to expand the list of higher education institutions eligible for contracts to offer in-service
teacher training (24 institutions in all), many of which had no prior experience in this area, greatly
jeopardized the perceived quality of this training.

National Examinations System: Rating ­ Unsatisfactory The provision of training and equipment for
national assessments, as well as the conduct of research/analysis of national assessments, fell far below
project estimates.

School Nutrition: Rating ­ Highly Satisfactory 5 million youth were targeted for the school breakfast
program over the six-year life of the project; 4 million youth were effectively reached with project
resources. While below forecasts this is nonetheless a major achievement, particularly as the Government
subsequently decided to expand this program to universal coverage for all Grades 1-8 (1.6 million students
per year) using domestic funds, indicating the sub-component was not only sustainable but also catalytic.
Targets for teacher training in school nutrition were surpassed. SEE surveys indicate that malnutrition
among basic education students decreased from 19 percent in 1993 to 12 percent in 2002. De-parasitation
programs covered 3.7 million students, versus 1.5 million forecast.

School Infrastructure: Rating ­ Highly Satisfactory 518 classrooms were constructed (versus 470
planned); 97,000 desks were distributed (versus 70,000 planned); 22,777 classrooms received preventive
maintenance (versus 24,500 planned); 5,125 classrooms benefited from minor repairs (versus 5,000
planned); 593 classrooms were rehabilitated (versus 1,600 planned); and 154 pre-school classrooms were
constructed (versus 145 planned). However, it must be pointed out that targeting of infrastructure
activities was based on a process of "microplanificacion" of schools' needs (engineering criteria), rather
than on the needs of schools located in the poorest 40% of school districts (poverty criteria), as was
planned during appraisal.

Pilot Program to Support Private Schools Serving Low-Income Families: Rating ­ Unsatisfactory The
design of this sub-component was changed substantially in response to shifting government priorities, but
implementation of training (teachers and school directors), distribution of learning materials, and financing
of critical maintenance activities were all far below projections. The Government did conduct a census of
private schools, developed an MIS system for categorizing private schools, and strengthened the Private
School Department of the SEE with two vehicles and office technology. 200 private schools also received
a computer and some library books. The revolving loan program was never attempted.

Institutional Strengthening: Rating ­ Satisfactory Quantitative input targets for training of school
directors and SEE staff were largely met, and the number of projected trucks and motorcycles to be
purchased was surpassed. Interviews with project staff and co-financiers indicate that SEE's institutional
capacity has improved greatly over the last six years, although it is difficult to measure and observe this
ex-post.


                                                     - 10 -

Management Information System (MIS): Rating ­ Satisfactory Twice as many SEE staff received training
in the use of the MIS than forecast, all eight information systems were designed and rolled out, 600 schools
received MIS systems, and 66 (out of 112) regional or district educational offices obtained Internet access.
Information and educational statistics are now readily available, although it is not apparent this is used for
decision-making on a regular, systematic basis.

Community Participation: Rating ­ Unsatisfactory Although the project achieved the impressive objective
of establishing Parent Associations (PA) for every basic education school (6,295 of them), most of these
PA are nominal and largely inactive. No model for promoting community participation was designed or
implemented. While training of SEE staff in community participation surpasses project targets, almost all
of the trained (and equipped) staff were replaced with the change in Government in 2000, a significant loss
of capacity. Indeed, 89 percent of Parent Association members surveyed at the end of the project indicated
that they had never participated in any training. Finally, none of the 86 local educational projects designed
by the Parents Associations were approved for financing, nor was the Escuela de Padres y Madres ever
established. .

Monitoring and Evaluation: Rating ­ Satisfactory The project performance indicator system was
developed by the end of the project, but this should have been achieved much earlier and it is not apparent
this was used to provide feedback for project execution. Of the 10 semesterly financial control exercises
forecast 8 were carried out; of the 13 special impact studies forecast only 4 were undertaken.

Qualitative Achievement of Project Components

With respect to the first objective of improving basic education quality, multi-variable regression analysis
of the determinants of educational quality was carried out, to determine the impact of different project
sub-components on student learning. The results are interesting, although contradictory and inconclusive.

The presence of a strong parent association was the only explanatory variable with a statistically
significant positive impact on math scores. Availability of audiovisual resources and strong community
participation were the primary explanatory variables with a statistically significant impact on Spanish
language achievement.

Somewhat counter-intuitively, the percentage of qualified teachers had a statistically negative impact on
Spanish language scores, while it was the only variable with a statistically significant positive impact on
Social Science scores. Equally strange, the presence of school latrines had a positive impact on natural
science scores and a negative impact on mathematics scores. Interestingly, the proportion of girls in total
enrollment was a very strong explanatory variable with statistically significant positive impact on Spanish
and Natural Science scores, with somewhat negative impact on Math and Social Science scores. Finally,
there was no clear strong influence of the types of teaching techniques used on student learning outcomes:
at the 4th grade level "traditional" teaching methods had a negative influence, while at the 8th grade level
they had a slightly positive influence.

Based on this analysis, it is difficult to draw definite conclusions regarding the determinants of educational
quality and the role played by the different project components in promoting educational quality.
Weaknesses in the national testing system (one of the sub-components under the project which was
supposed to be strengthened) are probably responsible for these inconsistencies.




                                                       - 11 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The PAD projects three types of economic benefits:

l Internal Efficiency Savings (from reduced repetition or student-years saved);
l Benefits from completing basic education (rate of return, ROR, model, a la Psacharopoulos and Ng);
     and
l Unmeasurable higher employment and productivity of basic education graduates


For purposes of the ICR, the first benefit cannot be measured by a reduction in repetition rates, which
actually both decreased and increased during the project (see Footnote 1 for an explanation of
methodological issues). However, the benefits of improved educational internal efficiency can be measured
by quantifying the financial benefits (savings) of reducing the number of years required to produce a
graduate of basic education. During the project this figure declined from 13.5 years (1996/97) to 11.4
years (2001/02). Using a unit cost per year of US$168 this represents a savings of US$336 per graduate.
With more than 100,000 graduates per year of basic education, internal efficiency savings are equivalent to
US$33.6 million annually.

At the beginning of the project, estimates of the social and private rates of return of the project were
calculated, using standard ROR methodology (Psacharopoulos and Ng) and salary data from 1991. Upon
project completion, these rates were re-calculated, using 2000 labor market data.


Table 4: Estimated Rates of Return, Before and After the Project

                                               Beginning of Project       End of Project
4th Grade        Social Rate of Return         18%                        25%
                 Private Rate of Return        20%                        30%
8th Grade        Social Rate of Return         14%                        15%
                 Private Rate of Return        15%                        18%
Note: beginning of project calculations based on 1991 earnings by educational level data.
End of project calculations based on labor market surveys by the Department
of National Accounts and Economic Statistics of the Central Bank.


It is important to note that the period of project implementation was marked by strong sustained economic
growth, which benefited workers at all educational levels. Analysis indicates that those with higher
education levels enjoyed greater employment opportunities and greater salary increases during this
economic expansion, relative to those with no education.

These rates of return are for educational levels overall, and are not directly attributable to project
investments. Nonetheless, they indicate strong positive and increasing rates of return to basic education
investments.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A



                                                            - 12 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of this project was modest, less than what the projected aimed to
achieve but significant nonetheless. Perhaps most notable was the formation over more than 6,000 Parent
Associations (PAs) covering every primary education school in the country. PAs were offered training in
school management and some of them are functioning actively. These PAs helped school districts manage
almost US$3 million in Bank-financed cash transfers for school maintenance, and have increased
accountability of teachers (particularly in rural areas where teacher absenteeism is a major problem). In
addition, the technical departments and divisions within the SEE improved their institutional capacities
considerably, with the transfer of project planning and execution responsibilities from the Project
Coordination Unit to the SEE over the course of the loan. Within the SEE, MIS systems are routinely used
for research, planning and scenario-forecasting necessary for policy-making. In addition, many of the 23
institutions of higher education contracted under the project to provide in-service teacher training increased
their institutional capacity in important ways (technological, pedagogical and managerial). This increased
the downstream multiplier impact of the teacher training financed under the project, as new students and
teachers continue to participate in training activities financed from other sources. Finally, the Project
Coordination Unit itself was transformed into the Office for International Cooperation (OCI), and now
manages World Bank, IDB, USAID, GtZ, Japanese, Taiwanese and other donor projects. There is strong
capacity within the OCI to efficiently implement Bank procurement, disbursement and financial
management guidelines.

Actual "results on the ground" impact of these institutional development investments are much harder to
measure. No objective indicators were defined to evaluate the effectiveness of the institutional
strengthening component of the project. Staff turnover related to changes in Presidential administrations
certainly affected the project (e.g. 100 community participation agents trained and equipped at the
beginning of the project were released when a new Administration took over in 2000). Efforts to strengthen
regional and district level educational administration fell short of capacity-building goals, and many of the
Parent Associations mentioned above remain "on paper", lacking in capacity and unable to genuinely
participate in school management. In short, the SEE has yet to institutionalize concepts of genuine
accountability of school administrators and teachers vis-a-vis the consumers of education (parents and
students), and it is impossible to link the project's "input-oriented" institutional development initiatives with
improvements in student learning outcomes.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

One of the key factors affecting project implementation and outcomes was the co-financing structure of this
project, between the Bank and the IDB. This structure alternated between (i) stipulated fixed percentage
co-financing from each bank for certain project components and sub-component, and (ii) definition of
certain project components and sub-components which would be entirely financed by one bank or the other.
Confusing co-financing arrangements combined with different procurement procedures and project
timelines to render project execution constrained and inefficient.

Ultimately, following a review of project execution in 2000 (at which time project disbursements were well
behind schedule), a decision was reached to "de-link" Bank and IDB financing, although it should be noted
that the IDB was not consulted during the process and only informed after the fact. The resultant parallel
financing model was easier to implement and resulted in significantly improved project implementation.



                                                       - 13 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The key factor subject to government control was basic education spending and provision of counterpart
funds. Despite generally favorable macroeconomic conditions, sustained economic growth, clearly defined
sector strategy and policies favoring basic education, and official rhetorical commitment, minimum
expected levels of Government funding for basic education were not reached. Indeed, the Bank's Public
Expenditure Review (August 2003) indicates that central government education expenditures averaged 2.6
percent of GDP during 1997-2002 (2.3 percent in 2003), which compares unfavorably with the 3.5 percent
average for the LAC region. As a share of this funding, basic education expenditures actually declined
during project execution, from 50 percent (1996) to 46 percent (2001). However, it should be pointed out
that the period of project execution was one of sustained rapid GDP growth, meaning that education
spending had to increase in absolute terms just to keep up with GDP growth. Indeed, nominal spending on
basic education in increased an average of 20 percent per year between 1996 and 2002, which was also a
period of low inflation. (Source World Bank Dominican Republic Public Expenditure Review, August
2003) On balance, spending on basic education increased significantly during the life of the project,
although still not as much as was hoped would be the case.

While it is difficult to specify exactly how insufficient basic education funding affected project
implementation and outcomes, it is safe to say that low funding for qualitative inputs such as pedagogical
supervision and educational materials (which averaged less than US$4 per basic education student in
2000/01), certainly contributed to poor educational quality, as reflected in student test scores and internal
efficiency indicators.

With respect to counterpart funds, delays were experienced during the early years of project execution. In
March 1999 the Project Coordination Unit estimated "arrears" of US$2 million in counterpart funds due to
lack of funding for this in 1998. The change in government in 2000, which included the nomination of the
country's vice-president as Secretary of Education, greatly improved matters in terms of the amounts and
timeliness of project counterpart funds.

Finally, discussions with PCU staff and former World Bank task managers indicates that the Minister of
Education micro-managed the project in its early days, often to extreme levels, with the result that project
execution was extremely slow. PCU staff were insufficiently empowered to make decisions and implement
them, as all matters had to be approved by the Minister. This would appear to be a case of excessive
centralization. However, following negative supervision ratings and intensive support from both the World
Bank and IDB in the second half of 1999, the Minister engaged pro-actively in project execution and
presided over bi-monthly implementation meetings, which resulted in the project's real "take-off" (the
positive side of centralization).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Project supervision and back-to-office reports in 1998 and 1999 repeatedly describe deficiencies in the
implementing agency's capacity to manage procurement and financial management processes. This lead to
both delays in project execution and processing of loan disbursements. Despite extensive World
Bank-financed training of PCU staff in 1999, new staff were assigned to the PCU with the change in
government in 2000 which required additional (duplicative) training for PCU personnel in procurement and
financial management. By the end of the project, however, PCU staff were operating smoothly and
efficiently, with excellent and highly efficient relations with the Bank task manager, procurement officer,
disbursement officer and other staff. Clearly, important project implementation capacity was developed



                                                       - 14 -

under the project.

On the technical side, the PCU and executing departments within the SEE took a long time to develop the
smooth flow of information and communication necessary for efficient project execution. Progress was
made in the joint development of the Annual Work Programs (POAs), but more could have been done on a
day-to-day basis to speed things up. The lack of information regarding the process of section, registration,
and attendance of teachers in the in-service training program, and the lack of transparent regulations and
procedures regarding training scholarships and the obligations of trainees, is an example of this void of
information and communication.

Finally, with the conversion of the PCU into the International Cooperation Office (OCI), the focus shifted
somewhat from project execution and coordination to the development of new investments (loans and
grants) in Secondary Education, Basic Education and Early Childhood Development.

5.4 Costs and financing:

There were no major cost changes during the life of the project. As of the time of this ICR total project
expenditures were US$97.53 million, versus an estimated cost of US$100 million (the IDB loan closes on
December 31, 2003, and some additional final expenditures are expected). As for the World Bank loan,
out of the original principal of US$36.4 million, US$35.4 million was disbursed and US$1 million was
cancelled.

Project scope, scale and design for the major cost items (e.g. classroom construction and rehabilitation) was
accurate, and where actual costs were lower than estimated this permitted procurement in greater quantities
(e.g. textbooks, audio-visual materials). Inflation was low through the project implementation period and
exchange rates were stable. In general, major contractors (infrastructure, training and MIS systems)
performed satisfactorily.

There were changes in financing of certain project sub-components. Specifically, the Loan Agreement was
amended in 2000 to reallocate US$3.7 million (much of which was initially intended to support a pilot
program to upgrade private schools serving low-income students) towards a pilot program for Early
Childhood Education, increased financing for textbook printing and distribution and implementation of
transfers to support school-based maintenance activities. Indeed, actual Bank-financed expenditures on
educational materials and resources were US$6.73 million instead of the US$2.95 million projected at
appraisal. No Bank-funds were spent on the private school sub-component, versus a projected US$1.62
million. Other expenditures which were lower than projected were for national curriculum reform (no Bank
funds were used for this component, which was ultimately financed by the IDB), human resources
development (50 percent below expected), and monitoring and evaluation (70% below expected).

Project appraisal estimated a 5 1/2 year project execution (1/1/96 - 6/30/2001), while actual project
execution lasted nearly six years (10/24/97 - 6/30/03). Delays in project effectiveness reflected an
unrealistic implementation schedule and slow start-up on the part of the Government (which was in
transition in 1996/97). Disbursements began in October 1998, more than two and one-half years behind
schedule. Additional delays in project implementation were related to a decision by the Government to
place sole decision-making authority for the project within the office of the Secretary of Education (a poor
management decision) during the first three years of the project. Deficiencies in provision of counterpart
funding, project procurement and financial management caused additional delays, but these were
"re-couped" during the last three years of project execution. Thus, while the project completion date was
extended by a full two years, the period of actual project implementation was not significantly different



                                                    - 15 -

from expectations at appraisal.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


This project's sustainability is assessed as "likely". The Government's commitment to further improvement
of basic education is clearly reflected in the recently published 10-year Education Development Plan
(2002-2012). This plan and its overarching policy framework has received strong support from a wide
variety of stakeholders in government, civil society, academia and even opposition political parties, which
suggests that it will be maintained. Secondly, the plan has been well-received by all donors, several of
whom have committed significant funding (the European Union has committed 100 million euros and the
IDB has committed US$80 million (with strong possibility for a follow-on program), both for basic
education). To reinforce improvements in the quality of basic education, the World Bank has also launched
a US$42 million Early Childhood Education project which will improve readiness for primary education
and should lead to further improvements in internal efficiency and quality of basic education. In terms of
recurrent financing, the Government has committed to minimum funding levels for classroom maintenance,
educational materials and school feeding programs necessary to sustain project investments, as part of
World Bank and IDB-financing social sector adjustment lending in 2004.

The main risk to sustainability relates to the Dominican Republic's extremely tight public expenditure
constraints in 2004 (as part of an agreed-upon IMF plan), which could jeopardize overall education
spending in the short run. Additional limitations to the project's sustainability include the lack of local
participation (parent associations) in school management and the SEE's continued reluctance to promote
greater decentralization and local initiative of at the basic education level (in part because of lack of
training and capacity-building of the parent associations). Thirdly, it must be recognized that the
Dominican Republic has a tradition of major changes in civil service personnel which accompany
transitions in government, and there is a risk that much of the SEE's institutional capacity developed under
this project will be lost when a new Administration takes charge in August 2004. Fourthly, the project
investments in management information systems carry an estimated annual maintenance cost of
US$235,000-525,000 over the next four years, which may be difficult for the Government to sustain.
Despite these factors, the commitment of all stakeholders to the 10-Year Education Development Plan and
very strong donor support for this plan are likely to overcome these limiting factors, thereby justifying the
"likely" rating.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Government has moved to transition project investments to regular operations in various important
ways:

SEE's institutional capacity was strengthened through specific project investments (training, information
systems, etc.) and through transfer of responsibilities from the Project Coordination Unit to the appropriate
departments. The conversion by the Government of the Project Execution Unit into a Project Coordination
Unit, which placed in the different departments of the SEE full responsibility for planning, budgeting and
executing ongoing activities, has facilitated this process.

Secondly, the School Maintenance Committees, which are integrated into the School Councils ("Juntas"),
have increased the commitment of parents and community members in ensuring ongoing maintenance of



                                                      - 16 -

infrastructures financed under the project, although not as much as might be expected. In addition, as part
of a social sector adjustment loan, the Government has committed to the World Bank and IDB to provide
through the national budget in 2004 and 2005 sufficient financing for the maintenance of 10,000
classrooms each year (at a projected cost of US$11.6 million per year). It is expected that a significant
share of these funds will be executed via up to 500 financial transfers to the School Maintenance
Committees.

Thirdly, while it is difficult to precisely measure the impact of the substantial project investments in teacher
in-service training, there is no question that teachers' knowledge of the new curriculum and ability to apply
new teaching methods (developed through the project-financed in-service training) has improved
substantially. While the overall assessment of the in-service training component may be that it was not as
effective as was hoped (a more critical view would be that it served as a "diploma factory" which simply
resulted in higher teacher salaries), conversations with teachers do indicate both strong satisfaction with the
training received and increased teaching effectiveness in the classroom. A related point is that this
component greatly strengthened the capacity of the in-service teacher training institutions themselves
(Universidad Autonoma de Santo Domingo, INTEC and others), through the many project contracts
fulfilled. This kind of human and institutional capacity building has a positive multiplier effect on all the
other trainees/students in these institutions, which reinforces sustainability.

Fourthly, the Government has integrated several important project investments into its own recurrent
activities. For example, the school feeding program supported under this loan has been fully
institutionalized in the Student Welfare Department, and has quadrupled in size using domestic resources to
reach all basic education students in the country (1.6 million rations per school day are distributed, at an
annual cost of US$42 million). The financing of educational materials and textbooks has been partially
integrated into the 2004 SEE budget, and the Government has committed to provide US$14.2 million
annually in 2004 and 2005 for this purpose.

Fifth, while education financing as a percentage of GDP did not increase as hoped during the life of the
project, funding for basic education increased steadily in nominal terms between 1996-2002, at an average
annual rate of 20 percent. These steady and significant increases reflect a commitment to support the
expansion and qualitative improvement of primary education. It is hoped these increases will continue so
as to further ensure the sustainability of project investments.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. Explicit consideration of the Government's 10-year plan (strategies and priorities) for
education was demonstrated during identification. This plan focused on qualitative improvements
throughout the system, especially for basic education, and aimed to improve both internal and external
efficiency of the educational system. As discussed earlier, project sub-components were coherently linked
to achievement of project objectives.

The Bank's preparation assistance was generally adequate in terms of technical and economic design, but
occasionally simplistic technically and overly optimistic in terms of financial and institutional aspects. A
broad, somewhat unfounded, assumption was made during project preparation that qualitative
improvements in student learning and quantitative improvements in internal efficiency would be achieved



                                                      - 17 -

through in-service and pre-service teacher training delivered by national universities. However, no careful
assessment of the demonstrated capacity of the national universities to deliver these results was carried out.
What transpired was a costly series of contracts between the SEE and local universities, and thousands of
training diplomas distributed to Dominican teachers (the SEE linked salary incentives to completion of
these programs), with little observable impact in terms of teaching practices or learning outcomes. The
mid-term evaluation highlighted a number of problems with this component, including deficient
programming, participant selection, cost control, monitoring and evaluation. Indeed, it can be argued that
this was an expensive mistake. By the end of the project, a new model was developed for in-service teacher
training, which emphasizes peer-based facilitation, classroom observation of other teachers and other forms
of on-the-job training. This, at least, shows a process of learning.

Financially, the overall project was projected to cost US$100 million, with the Bank's portion projected at
US$37 million. The IDB's financing was projected at US$52 million, but the co-financing mechanisms
were poorly designed. Project cost tables in the PAD do not specify what IDB would finance ­ the PAD
simply states that the banks would "share the financing of major components, though discernible
subcomponents will be financed by each." (PAD, page 26) This oversight became a serious problem
during project implementation, and resulted in a cumbersome process of financial allocation for the PCU.

With regards to institutional aspects, the design of the management structure for project implementation
was confusing. The PCU had both a technical unit (intended to support technical execution of project
components) and an administrative unit (responsible for project personnel, procurement, finance,
accounting and auditing activities). The division of responsibilities between the PCU technical unit and the
relevant SEE departments was unclear. The PCU was also authorized to pay regular SEE staff for extra
hours worked on the project, which created tensions between technical unit staff and their SEE
counterparts.

In addition, the government's commitment to support the development of private schools assisting
low-income families was grossly overestimated during project preparation, and the rotating loan fund
designed during appraisal was inappropriate. During appraisal staff estimated the cost of this program at
US$3.4 million. In fact, very little was undertaken or accomplished in terms of training (teachers/school
directors), infrastructure or distribution of materials. Ultimately, this sub-component was largely
abandoned in favor of improving the SEE's institutional oversight of private schools.

Otherwise, Bank performance was satisfactory in terms of its appraisal of: the commitment by government,
implementing agency and the project beneficiaries; the capacity of the implementing agency; recognition of
project risks; appropriateness of the financial package; adequacy of performance indicators; suitability of
the lending instrument; consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies; and degree to which lessons learned
from previous projects in the country and education sector were taken into account. However, lack of clear
coordination with the key co-financing agency (IDB), particularly with respect to financing arrangements
and procurement procedures, resulted in significant project implementation problems.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance is rated as satisfactory overall, although it is argued that supervision
was unsatisfactory during the early years of the project. Specifically, lack of attention to the different
procurement, disbursement and financial arrangements between the two financiers contributed to the
project's implementation declared as "unsatisfactory" by the Bank in February 1999. This resulted in
much more intensive supervision, including involvement of the LCSHD Implementation Improvement
Support Group, which resulted in the project's return to "satisfactory status" in April 2000.



                                                      - 18 -

Surprisingly, the Bank did not participate actively in the mid-term evaluation of the project, despite clear
commitments to do so in the PAD and Loan Agreement. The midterm evaluation was essentially carried
out by the Government and the IDB (in March 2000, one year later than specified in the Loan Agreement),
with all evaluation staff hired by the IDB. Indeed, the mid-term evaluation noted a lack of supervision by
the Bank. The Bank did organize a workshop after the mid-term evaluation to discuss implementation to
date and necessary changes, but this was done by an interim task manager who provided little continuity.
Indeed, between the end of 1999 and October 2000 there were two changes in supervision responsibilities,
which resulted in a supervision "vacuum".

Interviews with SEE authorities revealed that the lack of a World Bank office in the country during the
initial years of the project significantly hampered communications with the Bank and delayed both
procurement and disbursement processes.

Project supervision improved markedly following in October 2000, with a change in task managers that
resulted in positive modifications to project design, including an amendment to the Loan Agreement. This
coincided approximately with the opening of a Bank Country Office in Santo Domingo and a new
Government, both of which provided greatly increased attention to project execution.

Finally, Government authorities highlighted the Bank's responsiveness in providing the training required for
procurement and financial management functions within the PCU. This training was provided on multiple
occasions during the life of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Taking into account the ratings given to the Bank's lending and supervision performance, overall Bank
performance was satisfactory. Deficiencies in project design (both institutional and financial) were
corrected during project implementation, with strong assistance provided by Bank task managers and the
LSCHD Implementation Improvement Support Group once serious problems were identified. Finally,
senior Government education authorities interviewed as part of the preparation of this ICR stated
emphatically that they greatly appreciated the Bank's flexibility in adjusting project implementation and
sub-components in order to achieve the project's development objectives.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during preparation is also rated as satisfactory, for several reasons. The
Borrower ensured the project was consistent with education sector development strategy and sub-sectoral
priorities. In addition, the Borrower mobilized sufficient levels of funding (both external and domestic) to
achieve very ambitious project objectives, via a holistic approach to improving educational access and
quality. In short, the most essential aspects of loan preparation were successfully carried out.

However, the Government did not sufficiently involve stakeholders (particularly parents and teachers) in
project preparation, nor was consensus generated within the SEE in favor of decentralization and increased
parental involvement in school management. Lack of reliable statistics and information within the SEE
during project preparation resulted in project design which was not fully adapted to reality, particularly
with respect to the sub-components "support to private schools" and "national evaluation". These
weaknesses are not such that an unsatisfactory rating should be attributed to the borrower's preparation,
but they do highlight some critical areas which need to be corrected in future project preparation.



                                                     - 19 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory, although weak during initial
years of the project.

For example, for the first three years of the project, the Secretary of Education mandated that all personnel
and expenditure decisions related to the project had to be approved by the Secretary's office, which slowed
down administrative processes considerably and "dis-empowered" project staff. Secondly, the
establishment of new procedures by the Comptroller General for accessing international funds deposited in
the Central Bank, and for accessing corresponding counterpart funds, created delays and confusion for
PCU financial management staff. Bank supervision documents also attest to occasional reluctance on the
part of PCU staff to fully adhere to World Bank procurement procedures, in some cases for lack of
knowledge/training and in other cases because IDB procedures were preferred.

On the positive side, despite the sweeping changes of SEE personnel related to the arrival of a new
Government in August 2000, there were only minor changes of PCU staff. This continuity was critical for
project implementation. Appointing the Vice President of the country as Secretary of Education in August
2000 greatly strengthened implementation performance, as well. The new Secretary provided strong
political support, ensured counterpart financing, and accelerated administrative procedures.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

PCU performance is also rated as satisfactory. Despite some delays and weaknesses observed in the
implementing agency's financial management and procurement functions, the PCU continually improved its
effectiveness and efficiency. The creation of the Office for International Cooperation, in which the PCU
operates, further strengthened the capacity of the PCU as it consolidated expertise and experience with
World Bank and IDB loan execution. Procurement, infrastructure, financial management and
monitoring/evaluation functions improved markedly over the last three years of project implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       While far from a "new" lesson learned, the project illustrates once again the need for sustained
increased public basic education spending if this type of investment is to fully succeed. The Bank needs to
be even more proactive in insisting not only on timely and sufficient allocation of project counterpart funds
for project execution, but also on overall increases in funding for the sub-sectors targeted for investment.

2.       Institutional capacity-building is more than a question of finances, information technology and
training. It is a cultural shift which requires strong leadership by example at all levels, including
demonstration of the use of information for decision-making and clear designation of roles and
responsibilities for accountability. Secondly, it requires continuity of staff and a degree of immunity from
political changes above. So long as shifts in presidential power result in massive sweeps and/or relocations
of civil servants, based on political party affiliation, efforts to improve institutional capacity are unlikely to
produce lasting results.

3.       Community Participation requires more than rhetoric to make it real, and is stimulated when


                                                       - 20 -

financial resources and decision-making authority are combined. Simply encouraging parents and
community leaders to get involved in school management is not enough. Parents require training,
empowerment (authorization) and some control over financial resources to get engaged.

4.       School nutrition programs (desayuno escolar) are an important incentive for student attendance
and retention at school. Teachers, school directors and parents interviewed for this report were unanimous
in this assessment. That public primary schools are attended in large part by students from poor families
(many better off families prefer to send their children to private schools) provide further justification for
this program as a poverty reduction/social safety net intervention.

5.       In-service teacher training programs which focus on certification and/or diplomas may produce
teachers who look good on paper but who are unable to apply their training in the classroom. Training
programs should be grounded in the practical teaching and learning realities of classrooms, rather than
based on prevailing academic theories of education. Secondly, a clear definition of the teaching/learning
objectives sought through in-service training is necessary to ensure both selection of high-quality
institutions capable for providing this training and downstream impact measurement. There must be some
mechanism to assess school performance before and after training, including links to teacher performance.
Finally, training of teachers may be more effective when some personal commitment is required beyond
time - offering both scholarships and higher salaries for diplomas certainly encourages teachers to
participate in training, but actual training impact is likely to be higher and more cost-effective if teachers
participate financially, as well.

6.       Co-financed projects require very careful project design and particular attention to the distribution
of financing by components, sub-components and categories of investment. Ensuring synchronization of
financier timelines is also essential to avoid debilitating "starts and stops" in project execution. Equally
important for co-financed projects, the harmonization of World Bank and IDB procurement procedures is a
much needed area for future work between the two banks, which would greatly facilitate project
implementation and effectiveness.

7.       Efforts to improve project implementation through initiatives such as the Implementation
Improvement Support Group can indeed be very effective, particularly when this is combined with
flexibility on the part of Bank task managers to make needed adjustments on its side.

8.       Project design must allow for considerable flexibility over a 5-6 year implementation period, given
the high probability of changes in Government, task team leaders and external environments. In particular,
while the logical framework is an important management tool it needs to be open to continuous revision as
project targets and indicators change.

9.       Ensuring that Secretariat of Education personnel are ultimately responsible for project execution
(NOT the project coordination unit) significantly improves internal management capabilities of the SEE.
This requires development of skills related to planning, budgeting, personnel, monitoring and evaluation,
and the promotion of a culture within the SEE which encourages these skills. This difusion of good
management practices within the SEE increased both institutional capacity and suggests greater abilities to
implement changes in the future.




                                                      - 21 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Translated Summary:

The enrollment and access objectives for basic education were achieved.             However, there still exist
inequalities and deficiencies in basic education enrollment, with poor and rural children still lacking access
to all eight grades of basic education. The major investments in teacher training increased teachers'
understanding of the new curriculum, but has not dramatically improved teaching methods nor created a
new dynamic of teaching and learning. Low socio-economic conditions of teachers, many of whom live just
above the poverty line, are an obstacle to their further development. Internal efficiency and quality of basic
education improved somewhat. Overage students decreased more than expected. Repetition decreased then
increased. Math and spanish test scores improved more than expected, while improvements in social
science scores were modest and science scores actually declined.

Lessons Learned:

1.       Increased, sustained investments in basic and early education are necessary.          Without more
resources and qualified teachers, with high performance standards for teaching, school facilities and
management, basic education results will change little.
2.       The in-service teacher training model needs to be revised and re-thought.            University-based
programs lack connection to practical needs of teachers and their working conditions. Increased monitoring
of improvements in teacher performance and of the effects of their training on student learning outcomes is
urgent, given the large amount of resources invested in this activity.
3.       To improve management capacity at ALL educational levels, additional efforts are required. Clear
performance objectives for each educational level should be established, with increased autonomy and
responsibility given to school and district levels.
4.       Internal efficiency improvements can be promoted through definition of educational goals at the
school level which are shared between the school and community. Local involvement must be stimulated.

Resumen Ejecutivo


El Segundo Programa de Mejoramiento de la Educación Básica e Inicial se proponía aumentar la equidad,
la eficiencia y la sostenibilidad de la Educación Inicial y Básica de los niños y las niñas dominicanas, como
una estrategia de apoyo a la Segunda Fase del Plan Decenal de Educación. Las metas generales del
Programa, en términos de indicadores de los efectos de las intervenciones, fueron las siguientes:

1.        Gasto Gobierno Central en Educación Inicial y Básica como % del PIB aumenta a 2% en año 1,
          2.2% en año 2, 2.4% en año 3, 2.6% en año 4 y 2.8% en año 5.
2.        El gasto (inversión + corriente) por alumno en Educación Inicial aumenta de US$105 en 1995, a
          US$150 en el año 5.
3.        El gasto promedio (inversión + corriente) por alumno en Educación Básica aumenta de US$164
          en 1995, a US$166 en año 1, US$170 en año 2, US$175 en año 3, US$180 en año 4, y US$186
          en año 5.
4.        Mejora en más de un 5%, en 8º Grado, el rendimiento de estudiantes en las Pruebas Nacionales a
          partir del año 2000.



                                                     - 22 -

5.        La tasa de repitencia se reduce de 14.7% en 3 puntos porcentuales a partir del año 2000.
6.        Reduce la tasa de deserción del 11.7% al 5% para el año 2002.
7.        Aumenta el porcentaje de egresados de la Educación Básica de 25% a 50%, en el 2002.
8.        La matrícula proporcional se incrementa en un 5% en todos los grados de Educación Básica, a
          partir del 2000.
9.        Tasa de retención de Educación Básica aumentada en 3% a partir del 2000.

En términos generales, la iniciativa asumía las siguientes hipótesis:

1.       Que un mejoramiento de la calidad de la Educación Básica era viable a partir de la implementación
de un nuevo currículo para este nivel, caracterizado por ser más abierto y flexible que el que se venía
aplicando con anterioridad, donde se fomentara la participación de todos los actores relevantes del proceso,
y sustentado por una efectiva capacitación de directores de centros, maestros, técnicos y miembros de la
comunidad organizados alrededor de cada centro educativo.

2.       Se asumía, asimismo, que la distribución de libros de texto, manuales, guías y otros materiales
didácticos; que el desayuno escolar, la rehabilitación y construcción de aulas, el equipamiento y
mantenimiento de escuelas, conjuntamente con mejoras en el dominio de contenidos y de las metodologías
de enseñanza por parte de los docentes, previstos como parte de las intervenciones prioritarias del
Programa habrían de conducir al logro de los referidos indicadores de calidad.

En términos específicos, mediante las intervenciones implícitas en las hipótesis señaladas, el Programa fue
dirigido a mejorar los niveles de competencia y eficiencia en la gestión institucional operativa de la
Secretaría de Estado de Educación; a ampliar los servicios que en materia educativa se orientan a
beneficiar a estudiantes provenientes de familias de bajos ingresos, tanto en las escuelas públicas como en
las privadas; y a incrementar la matrícula y tasa de retención a nivel Inicial y Básico. También el
programa perseguía aumentar la tasa de promoción, reducir la tasa de repitencia y la deserción escolar;
apoyar la aplicación del Nuevo Currículo; y capacitar (en servicio) al personal técnico, directivo y docente
tanto a nivel central como regional, distrital y local, así como a miembros de la comunidad organizados en
las APMAES.

Evaluacion y Metodología

El estudio evaluativo del Segundo Programa de Mejoramiento de la Educación Básica ha sido abordado
tomando en cuenta que ha consistido en un conjunto de intervenciones en el marco de un sistema, el sistema
educativo dominicano, una de las estructuras de servicio y gestión pública más extensas, complejas y de
larga data en la historia dominicana.

El paradigma que orienta el estudio evaluativo del Segundo Programa se basa en la lógica de sistemas y
una concepción de los programas y proyectos sociales como intervenciones cuasi experimentales Martinic,
Sergio: La Sistematización y sus relaciones con la evaluación y la investigación social, Fundación
Universitaria Luis Amigó-CEAAL, Santiago, Chile, 1998..

Se ha seleccionado este enfoque sobre la base del criterio de que al ejercicio de cualquier proyecto o
programa que pretenda afectar procesos sociales y marcos institucionales tan amplios como los que
pretendía afectar el Segundo Programa se debe exigir la posibilidad de generar un caudal significativo de
experiencias y lecciones aprendidas que "sistematizadas" (valga la redundancia) contribuyan a enriquecer
el repertorio de políticas públicas y herramientas de gestión necesarias para impulsar el desarrollo.




                                                     - 23 -

La evaluación ha sido concebida como un intento de reconstruir: a) Las hipótesis de intervención, los
supuestos y condiciones así como los criterios y estrategias presentes en quienes diseñaron el Segundo
Programa; b) Una delimitación lo más precisa posible de las intervenciones propiamente dichas, las
variables que se introdujeron en el sistema durante la ejecución del programa; c) Lo que efectivamente se
hizo al ejecutar el programa, ya que si (a) y (b) definen lo que se quería hacer, entre esto y lo realmente
hecho suele haber discrepancias; d) Lo que sucedió como resultado de las intervenciones, los efectos o la
eficacia de las variables de intervención sobre las situaciones intervenidas, que incluyen procesos, marcos
organizativos, niveles de actuación y actores en una dinámica de conexiones e interacciones constantes; e)
La valoración general del Programa como estrategia de acción y política pública en el sistema educativo.

Mediante la compilación de datos procedentes de la Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto, Banco Central de la
República, Centro Nacional de Salud Materno Infantil y Departamento de Estadísticas Educativas, la
Dirección de Pruebas Nacionales, Departamento de Presupuesto , la Sub Dirección de Bienestar Estudiantil
y el Departamento de Monitoreo y Evaluación, la Sub Secretaría de Informática y otros departamentos y
unidades de la SEE se ha tratado de reconstruir, en parte, lo que efectivamente se hizo en el curso de la
ejecución del Segundo Programa.



Resultados

Grado de cumplimiento cuantitativo de las metas

La ejecución del programa alcanzó un alto grado de cumplimiento de las metas desde el punto de vista de la
ejecución cuantitativa.

Componente                              Cantidad     Metas        %            Metas   no %
                                        de metas     cumplidas                 cumplidas
                                                     o
                                                     superadas
Reforma del currículo nacional          5            4           80%           1           20%
Materiales y recursos de aprendizaje    9            8           89%           1           11%
Desarrollo de recursos humanos          4            2            50%          2           50%
Evaluación nacional del rendimiento     5            1            20%          4           80%
Apoyo a colegios privados pobres        7            2            29%          5           71%
Infraestructura                         7            6            86%          1           14%
Fortalecimiento institucional           5            4            80%          1           20%
Sistema de información gerencial        3            2            67%          1           33%
Participación comunitaria               6            5            83%          1           17%
Nutrición escolar                       4            3            75%          1           25%
Monitoreo y evaluación                  4            1            25%          3           75%



La ejecución presupuestaria también se ajustó en gran medida a la programación que se había
realizado.

En cuanto al alcance de las intervenciones, la meta de gasto público en educación básica e inicial
no pudo ser alcanzada, antes bien, la ejecución quedó por debajo del 50% de lo previsto.




                                                    - 24 -

El costo por estudiante, calculado sobre la base de costos indirectos, sí alcanzó la estimación
programada, mientras que calculado mediante costos directos solamente, se produjo un
incremento considerable, pero por debajo de lo previsto.

El mejoramiento de la planta física escolar se manifestó, a la fecha de los datos disponibles (2000) en el
hecho de que la mayoría de los directores de centro consideraron que las condiciones físicas de sus escuelas
eran adecuadas. La dotación de materiales educativos y equipos, sin embargo, era insuficiente.

Impacto

Las cobertura de la educación básica ha crecido hasta alcanzar las metas previstas. Persisten, sin embargo,
deficiencias en la distribución de esta cobertura, tanto en términos territoriales como en lo que respecta al
acceso de los grupos más pobres de la población a la educación básica.

La capacitación del personal docente no se ha manifestado en una efectiva renovación de los métodos de
enseñanza predominantes entre el profesorado ni en la creación de una nueva dinámica en la
enseñanza-aprendizaje. Se percibe que las condiciones sociales y económicas de los docentes, gran parte de
los cuales se encuentran en el nivel de pobreza, obstaculiza su desarrollo.

Con limitaciones de alcance, las intervenciones han mostrado cierto impacto en la eficiencia interna y la
calidad de la educación básica. La tasa de deserción ha disminukdo, mientras que la tasa de
egresados ha aumentado, conforme a lo previsto. La de sobreedad se redujo mucho más de lo previsto,
pero la de repitencia se incrementó, con lo que la variación en la eficiencia interna de la educación básica
ha mejorado en alguna medida, pero por debajo de las expectativas.

El rendimiento de los estudiantes de cuarto y octavo grado en las pruebas nacionales mejoró en las
asignaturas de matemática y español por encima de lo que se había programado. En ciencias sociales el
incremento del rendimiento fue modesto y en ciencias naturales se produjo una regresión en el rendimiento.



Lecciones aprendidas

La inversión en educación básica e inicial debe aumentar de forma considerable y sostenida. Sin una
notable mejoría en la provisión de recursos educativos, de personal docente calificado y con altos
estándares de desempeño, de infraestructura y capacidades de gestión es muy poco el cambio que se puede
producir en los resultados del ciclo básico de educación. Las metas de inversión en Educación Básica e
Inicial que se fijó el Segundo Programa y que eran una de las bases de la estrategia de desarrollo del
sistema educativo fijadas por el Plan Decenal siguen pendientes de cumplimiento.

La capacitación del personal docente y directivo en los niveles de base del sistema educativo (profesores y
profesoras, directores de centro, técnicos y directores de distrito) debe ser revisada y repensada. No se trata
sólo de problemas de metodología, sino de visión y estrategia general. A la par que se invierte en
capacitación con programas y metodologías revisados, es imperativo que se den pasos en la dirección de
mejorar las condiciones del personal docente y de atraer recursos humanos más calificados hacia la
práctica docente. Sólo una mejoría creciente y constante del financiamiento público a la educación básica
podrá producir el último de los procesos citados.

La forma de operación de la capacitación de los recursos humanos que ha sido predominante en el Segundo



                                                    - 25 -

Programa, a través de programas universitarios, deberá ajustarse a diseños y estrategias metodológicas
más efectivas. Se requiere de un ejercicio de capacitación con más apego a las necesidades prácticas de los
docentes y a las condiciones reales en que desarrollan su labor. Un monitoreo adecuado de las ganancias en
desempeño por parte del personal capacitado y de los efectos que la capacitación vaya produciendo en el
rendimiento de los estudiantes y la calidad de la educación básica parece urgente para ajustar la magnitud
de los recursos y esfuerzos invertidos en capacitación y los resultados alcanzados.

Para reducir la brecha entre la capacidad de gestión del sistema educativo en todos sus niveles y las
necesidades de desarrollo del país se requerirán esfuerzos adicionales y diferentes a los ya hechos. La
capacidad de gestión debe tener como parámetro de eficacia el cumplimiento del compromiso de calidad en
todos los niveles, y el compromiso de calidad no se obtiene con sólo fijar metas cuantitativas de alcance de
cierto tipo de intervenciones sino estableciendo parámetros cualitativos de desempeño, umbrales de calidad
de gestión, que den cuenta de cambios en las destrezas, el rendimiento y la conformidad de las prácticas de
gestión con unos resultados pre establecidos. Los niveles superiores del sistema educativo deberán avanzar
hacia el cumplimiento de estándares cada vez más rigurosos de desempeño en la gestión, apegados a
criterios gerenciales avanzados, rigurosos. Los niveles de distrito y centro deben ser estimulados hacia roles
más proactivos, más autónomos en la definición de metas locales que debe alcanzar cada centro y cada
distrito en cuanto a rendimiento y calidad del proceso educativo. Establecer el compromiso o aporte de
cada nivel al logro de las metas generales y hacer que ese compromiso sea responsabilidad compartida,
evaluable, de cada actor es una condición para que los procedimientos y herramientas de gestión que sean
servidos a través de la capacitación y el desarrollo del sistema de gerencia de la educación sean
incorporados y asumidos como una responsabilidad y una necesidad de la operación diaria de cada distrito,
cada centro y cada educador. El uso de las herramientas y procedimientos adecuados no debe seguir siendo
algo que se promueve, debe ser una necesidad del funcionamiento rutinario. Hacer que no se pueda trabajar
en el proceso educativo sin utilizar herramientas de gestión adecuadas es un reto que debe imponerse el
sistema educativo.

La eficiencia interna del sistema educativo puede ser impulsada si se estimula, permite y fomenta que cada
centro tenga el compromiso con este propósito y defina sus metas locales, su plan de centro, generado y
compartido con la comunidad. Hay que estimular la proactividad y el dinamismo local. Cada centro debe
cubrir una cuota de avance en la búsqueda de una educación de calidad y con la eficiencia necesaria. La
interacción entre establecimiento de metas e imperativos locales de calidad y el mejoramiento de las
herramientas de gestión, con un contexto de mayor autonomía y de rendición de cuentas, parece ser una de
las exigencias y condiciones para el mejoramiento sostenido de la calidad y los resultados del proceso
educativo.



(b) Cofinanciers:

[Note: a draft of this report was shared with the IDB for comments. A meeting was held to discuss the
IDB's comments which have been largely incorporated into the ICR document itself.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a




                                                    - 26 -

10. Additional Information


N/A




                              - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Improve Quality of Basic Education

Indicator 1: Reduce repetition rates          Indicator 1: 10% (baseline: 14.7%)           Indicator 1: 7%
Indicator 2: Reduce drop-out rates            Indicator 2: 5% (baseline: 11.7%)            Indicator 2: 5%
Indicator 3: Classroom hours                  Indicator 3: 770 hours (baseline: 680 hours) Indicator 3: 770 hours
Increase enrollment -- especially completion
rates

Indicator 1: Gross enrollment rate            Indicator 1: 97% (baseline: 74%)             Indicator 1: 113%
Indicator 2: Completion rate in 8th grade     Indicator 2: 50% (baseline: 25%)             Indicator 2: 35%



Strengthen technical and resource
management capacity for Basic education

Indicator 1: public expenditure on education  Indicator 1: 2.9 % (baseline: 1.9%)          Indicator 1: 2.6%
as % of GDP
Indicator 2: public expenditure on education  Indicator 2: 16% (baseline: 13.4%)           Indicator 2: 16%
as % of yearly national budget




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Indicator 1: New classrooms built             Indicator 1: 270                             Indicator 1: 518
Indicator 2: Clasrooms with preventive        Indicator 2: 24,500                          Indicator 2: 22,777
maintenance
Indicator 3: Refurbished classrooms           Indicator 3: 600                             Indicator 3: 593
Indicator 4: Integrated Early Childhood       Indicator 4: 50                              Indicator 4: 154
classrooms functioning
Indicator 5: Teachers trained/in training to  Indicator 5: 6,000                           Indicator 5: 9,281
obtain a teaching degr




1End of project




                                                                 - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                        US$ million  US$ million
National Curriculum Reform                                  3.10           3.54           114
Educational Materials and Resources                        11.40         16.47            144
Human Resources Development                                 7.90           6.41            81
National Student Assessment                                 2.90           1.54            53
School Nutrition Programs                                   3.20           1.41            44
School Facilities (infrastructure)                         43.10         49.57            115
Pilot Program to Support Private Schools Assisting          3.40           1.93            57
Low-Income Populations
Institutional Strengthening of SEE                          3.20           5.20           163
Management Information System                               3.70           4.19           113
Community Participation                                     2.30           0.99            43
Monitoring and Evaluation System                            1.90           1.02            54
Project Coordination Unit                                   4.10           5.46           133
IDB Supervision                                             0.50           0.45            90

Total Baseline Cost                                        90.70         98.18
 Physical Contingencies                                     1.90
 Price Contingencies                                        7.40
                           Total Project Costs            100.00         98.18
                   Total Financing Required               100.00         98.18




                                                 - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                   2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                               0.00              13.10             3.00              16.50             32.60
                                      (0.00)             (11.80)          (2.40)            (16.50)           (30.70)
2. Goods                               1.80               2.00             1.80              11.20             16.80
                                      (1.80)             (1.40)           (1.80)            (11.20)           (16.20)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00             6.60              6.60              13.20
Consulting                            (0.00)             (0.00)           (6.60)            (6.40)            (13.00)
4. Other Goods                         0.00               0.00             1.10              13.40             14.50
(equipment/vehicles/pharm
aceuticals)
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.80)            (12.60)           (13.40)
5. Maintenance Materials               0.00               0.00             4.40              4.30               8.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (4.00)            (0.30)             (4.30)
6. Training                            0.00               0.00             6.20              8.00              14.20
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (6.20)            (8.00)            (14.20)
   Total                               1.80              15.10            23.10              60.00            100.00
                                      (1.80)             (13.20)         (21.80)            (55.00)           (91.80)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IBRD and, for Non-Bank Financed, by
the IDB.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                  2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                               0.00              16.92            5.24              16.99             39.15
                                      (0.00)            (13.20)          (4.70)             (0.00)           (17.90)
2. Goods                               6.91               0.00            0.31              13.30             20.52
                                      (6.36)             (0.00)          (0.28)             (0.00)            (6.64)
3. Services                            0.00               0.17            3.99              9.35              13.51
Consulting                            (0.00)             (0.17)          (3.99)             (0.00)            (4.16)
4. Other Goods                         1.82               0.00            0.25              12.67             14.74
(equipment/vehicles/pharm
aceuticals)
                                      (1.65)             (0.00)          (0.21)             (0.00)            (1.86)
5. Maintenance Materials               0.00               0.00            2.10              1.18               3.28
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (2.10)             (0.00)            (2.10)
6. Training                            0.00               0.00            3.39              8.68              12.07
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (3.39)             (0.00)            (3.39)
   Total                               8.73              17.09            15.28             62.17            103.27
                                      (8.01)            (13.37)          (14.67)            (0.00)           (36.05)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff



                                                      - 30 -

     2/

       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
National Curriculum            1.22          0.77         2.05        0.00         0.31       3.23        0.0      40.3    157.6
Reform
Educational Materials and      2.95          1.10         8.38        6.73         0.46       9.09       228.1     41.8    108.5
Resources
Human Resource                 4.00          0.94         4.50        2.02         0.18       4.18       50.5      19.1     92.9
Development
National Student               1.43          0.15         1.56        1.41         0.08       0.00       98.6      53.3      0.0
Assessment
School Nutrition Programs      1.16          0.25         2.06        1.02         0.35       0.00       87.9     140.0      0.0
School Infrastructure          18.98         7.68        21.47       21.17         6.13      21.87       111.5     79.8    101.9
Pilot Program to Assist        1.62          0.38         1.72        0.00         0.02       1.91        0.0      5.3     111.0
Private Schools assisting
Low-Income Populations
Institutional Strengthening    1.31          0.02         2.22        1.07         0.65       3.28       81.7     3250.0 147.7
Management Information         0.50          0.55         2.98        0.00         0.34       3.85        0.0      61.8    129.2
System
Community Participation        0.52          0.46         1.53        0.01         0.09       0.89        1.9      19.6     58.2
Monitoring and Evaluation      1.01          0.13         0.96        0.30         0.06       0.66       29.7      46.2     68.8
Project Coordination Unit      1.91          0.56         1.91        1.41         2.21       1.84       73.8     394.6     96.3
IDB Supervision Fee                                       0.52        0.00         0.00       0.45                          86.5
TOTAL                          36.60        11.46        51.92       35.40         10.88     51.25       96.7      94.9     98.7

   Note: These appraisal figures are from IDB Project Appraisal Document. The World Bank PAD did not include
   this information.
     The actual figures are from the Project Coordination Unit on World Bank, Government and IDB Contributions.




                                                           - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Project Appraisal Document projects three types of economic benefits:

§        Internal Efficiency Savings (from reduced repetition or student-years saved);
§        Benefits from completing basic education (rate of return, ROR, model, a la Psacharopoulos and
Ng); and
§        Unmeasurable higher employment and productivity of basic education graduates

For purposes of the ICR, the first benefit cannot be measured by a reduction in repetition rates, which
actually increased during the project. However, the benefits of improved educational internal efficiency can
be measured by quantifying the financial benefits (savings) of reducing the number of years required to
produce a graduate of basic education. During the project this figure declined from 13.5 years (1996/97)
to 11.4 years (2001/02). Using a unit cost of US$168 this represents a savings of US$336 per graduate.
With more than 100,000 graduates per year of basic education, internal efficiency savings are equivalent to
US$33.6 million annually.

At the beginning of the project, estimates of the social and private rates of return of the project were
calculated, using standard ROR methodology (Psacharopoulos and Ng) and salary data from 1991. Upon
project completion, these rates were re-calculated, using 2000 labor market data.

Table 1:Estimated Rates of Return, Before and After the Project
                                            Beginning of Project       End of Project
4th Grade    Social Rate of Return          18%                        25%
             Private Rate of Return         20%                        30%
8th Grade    Social Rate of Return          14%                        15%
             Private Rate of Return         15%                        18%
Note: beginning of project calculations based on 1991 earnings by educational level data.
End of project calculations based on labor market surveys by the Department
of National Accounts and Economic Statistics of the Central Bank.


It is important to note that the period of project implementation was marked by strong sustained economic
growth, which benefited workers at all educational levels. Analysis indicates that those with higher
education levels enjoyed greater employment opportunities and greater salary increases during this
economic expansion, relative to those with no education.

These rates of return are for educational levels overall, and are not directly attributable to project
investments. Nonetheless, they indicate strong positive and increasing rates of return to basic education
investments.




                                                            - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/14/1994                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             COUNTRY OFFICER
              03/06/1995                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             COUNTRY OFFICER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/15/1995                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIST
              10/11/1995                5    OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             LAWYER, DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER, PROCUREMENT
                                             OFFICER

 Supervision

              10/19/1996                1    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)           U               S
              12/13/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/09/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1);
                                             EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              10/16/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              02/13/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1); EDU.           U               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              04/30/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1); EDU.           U               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              07/30/1999                2    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        U               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
              11/11/1999                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              10/13/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION (1);
                                             OPERATIONS SUPPORT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              02/17/2001                4    TEAM LEADER-EDUCATION            S               S
                                             (1); EDU- INST.
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              07/19/2001                6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S



                                              - 33 -

                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); OPERATIONS (1); SR.
                                           ARCHITECT (1); ENGINEER
                                           (1); SR. ENGINEER (1)
               12/07/2001              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                           TEACHER TRAINING SPEC.
                                           (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                           (1)
               06/07/2002              4   PROJECT MANAGER (1); JPA-          S    S
                                           EDUCATION (1); EDUCATION
                                           (1); PROJECT
                                           ADMINISTRATION (1)
               11/01/2002              3   ED. SPECIALIST (1); JPA (1);       S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT (1)
               03/07/2003              4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMEMENT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           EDUCATION (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         467.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                               117.0
  Supervision                                                         452.0
  ICR                                                                  41.0
  Total                                                            1,077.00




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. World Bank Project Appraisal Document, Dominican Republic Basic Education Project, Loan
   DO-3951A, October 1995
   Legal Agreement, Loan DO-3951A, October 1995.

2. Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), Project Appraisal Document for Dominican Republic Basic
   Education Project, Loan 897/OC-DR, August 1995.

3. Informe Final: estudio evaluativo de la contribucion de las intervenciones prioritarias del Segundo
   Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion Basica sobre indicadores de calidad,
   eficiencia y matricula educativa, prepared by Grupo Gestion Moderna, SA, August 2003.

4. DRAFT, Project Completion Report, Basic Education Improvement Project, Second Phase, IDB, July
   16, 2003.

5. Informe de Resultados: Evaluacion de Medio Termino (Mid-Term Evaluation of Basic Education
   Improvement Project, Second Phase), IDB, March 2000.

6. World Bank Project Supervision Reports #5-19.

7. All Aide Memoires of World Bank missions.

8. Plan Estrategico de Desarrollo de la Educacion Dominicana, 2003-2012, State Secretariat of
   Education, SEE




                                                 - 37 -

- 38 -

