Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3951-DO
                             Loan Agreement
              (Second Basic Education Development Project)
                                 between
                            DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                   and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated October 31, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3951-DO
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 1996 , between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $52,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subpara-
graph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement.".
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Affiliated Entity" means any entity under the jurisdiction of
SEEBAC;
     (b)  "Basic Education" means pre-primary, primary (which includes
first through sixth grades) and lower secondary (which includes seventh
and eighth grades) education;
     (c)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank (Banco Central de la
Repblica Dominicana) of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Community Entity" means any group of individuals or entity
(other than Parents' Associations) acceptable to the Bank;
     (e)  "Curriculum Innovations" means any proposal, acceptable to
the Bank, made by a Parents' Association through SEEBAC to support the
implementation of the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) of the
Project;
     (f)  "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date here-
with from the Borrower to the Bank which sets forth the minimum
counterpart funds necessary to carry out the Project and the Project
indicators and targets;
     (g)  "INDOFANE" means the National Institute of School Nutrition
(Instituto Dominicano de Fomento de la Alimentacin y Nutricin Escolar)
of the Borrower;
     (h)  "NGO" means a non-governmental organization, acceptable to
the Borrower and the Bank;
     (i)  "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the
Bank (adopted by the Borrower), which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the
terms of reference of the training programs to be carried out under
the Project; (ii) the procurement procedures to be followed by the
Borrower, through SEEBAC, in carrying out the Project (including the
standard bidding documents referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment); (iii) the terms and conditions of a model Participation Agree-
ment; (iv) the criteria for selecting schools under Part A.2 (e) of
the Project; and (v) the criteria for selecting schools under Part
A.6 of the Project;
     (j)  "Parents' Association"  means a parents' association of a
public school providing Basic Education duly acknowledged by SEEBAC;
Page  3
     (k)  "Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "PCU" means the Project coordinating unit referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
     (m)  "Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (n)  "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.01(d) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "SEEBAC" means the Secretariat of State for Education, Fine
Arts and Cults (Secretara de Estado de Educacin, Bellas Artes y Culto)
of the Borrower;
     (p)  "SESPAS" means the Secretariat of Public Health and Social
Assistance (Secretara de Estado de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social)
of the Borrower; and
     (q)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-seven million Dollars ($37,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the pre-
ceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
Page  4
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
               preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
               such Quarter."
               "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period com-
               mencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
               a calendar year."
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The Secretary of State of SEEBAC (or such other
person or persons as such Secretary of State shall appoint in writing)
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the pro-
visions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts A.1(a), (b), (c),
(d), (f) and (g), A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5(a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (g),
A.6(a), (b) and (d), A.7, B.1, B.2, B.3(a) through (d) and B.4 of
the Project, through SEEBAC; (ii) Parts A.1 (e) and A.6 (c) of the
Project, through SEEBAC with the participation of the Parents'
Associations or Community Entities, as the case may be (as provided
in paragraph (b) below); and Part A.5(d) of the Project, through
SEEBAC with the assistance of SESPAS, all with due diligence and
efficiency in accordance with the Operational Manual, and in con-
formity with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial and
Page  5
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out Parts A.1 (e), A.6 (c) and B.3 (e)
of the Project, the Borrower, through SEEBAC, shall enter into a
participation agreement (the Participation Agreement) with the
corresponding Parents' Association or Community Entity (as the case
may be) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual
budgets for the education sector, and make available promptly as
needed in Pesos equivalent, the counterpart funds required for
Project implementation (including the minimum amounts set forth
in the Implementation Letter for each year of Project implementa-
tion) provided, however, that if any such counterpart funds is not
used in the corresponding year, such funds shall be reallocated to
subsequent years in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, as may be
required for the efficient execution of the Project.
     (d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall open, and thereafter operate and
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project account in
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of depositing and managing
the counterpart funds required for Project implementation referred to
in paragraph (c) above.
     (e)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce any
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (f)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project taking into account the
Project indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan, for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
operate and maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project
coordination unit (the PCU) with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility
of assisting SEEBAC in: (i) preparing the reports referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; (ii) carrying out the procurement of
goods, works and consultants services required for the Project; and
(iii) coordinating and monitoring the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times
headed by a Project coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers,
all with qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through SEEBAC, shall
not later than February 1 of each year during Project implementation,
starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual report of
Page  6
such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request with
respect to: (a) the progress made by the Borrower in carrying out the
Project during the preceding twelve months; and (b) the activities to
be carried out under the Project during the twelve months following
the date of presentation of such report to the Bank.
     Section 3.06.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than
February 28 of each year during Project implementation, starting in
1996, jointly review with the Bank and the IDB, the progress made by
the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the
objectives of the Project.  Such review shall, inter alia, focus on
analyzing the progress reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement for the corresponding year of Project implementation.  As
part of each such review the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in
Project implementation.  If so, the Borrower shall furnish such action
plan to the Bank not later than thirty days after the conclusion of
the review in question and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be
carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
     (b)  The Borrower shall participate in a Project implementation
mid-term review to be held with the Bank and the IDB as part of the
annual review to be held not later than February 28, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.
     Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than twelve
months after the Effective Date establish, and thereafter operate and
maintain at least during Project implementation the entity referred
to in Part A.2(g) of the Project with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including those referred to in such Part of
the Project.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can
               be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that the Borrower shall have enacted legislation (including
the issuance of any decree, resolution or act by the Executive Power
of the Borrower) that may affect, in the opinion of the Bank,
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations or undertakings set forth or referred to in this
Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project, including the IDB Loan,
                    shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
                    in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                    respective agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such loan, including the IDB Loan shall have
                    become due and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof;
         (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                    such agreements, including the IDB Loan Agreement;
                    and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available to
                    the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                    conditions consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (c)  The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective
by December 31, 1996 or such later date as the Bank may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  8
     (a)  that any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  that the event specified in subparagraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower has allocated in its annual budget for
the education sector the amount set forth in the Implementation Letter
for the first year of Project implementation, as provided in Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement;
     (b)  that the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account as
provided in Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement and deposited therein
an amount equivalent to $400,000;
     (c)  that the Borrower shall have adopted an internal accounting
system satisfactory to the Bank;
     (d)  that the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual;
and
     (e)  that the Borrower shall have: (i) established the PCU; and
(ii) appointed the PCU's Project coordinator, as provided in Section
3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date January 22, 1997 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agree-
ment, the Secretario de Estado de Finanzas of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretara de Estado de Finanzas
          Avenida Mexico
          Santo Domingo
          Repblica Dominicana
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of
Page  9
the day and year first above written.
                    DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ Eduardo Selman
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean
                               SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works (other than       13,100,000         78%
     preventive
     maintenance) under
     Part A.6 (a) and (b)
     of the Project
(2)  Goods:
     (a)  Maintenance         4,000,000         100% until
     materials under                            withdrawals have
     Part A.6 (c) of                            reached and aggregate
     the Project                                amount equivalent
                                                $1,300,000; and
                                                70% thereafter
     (b)  Educational         4,300,000         100% of foreign
     materials (other                           expenditures and 92%
     than textbooks                             of local expenditures
     and workbooks)
     under Parts A.2
     (e), (d) and (e),
     A.4 (a), A.5 (g)
     and B.3 of the
     Project
     (c)  Equipment and         400,000         100% of foreign
     vehicles under                             expenditures and 92%
     Parts A.4 (a) and                          of local expenditures
     A.5 (e) of the
     Project
(3)  Pharmaceuticals under      400,000         50%
     Part A.5 (b), (c) and
     (d) of the Project
(4)  Consultants' Services    6,100,000         100%
     (including individual
     consultants for the
     PCU)
Page  10
(5)  Training under Parts     5,500,000         100%
     A.3, A.4 (a) and (b)
     and B.3 of the
     Project
(6)  Unallocated              3,200,000
         TOTAL               37,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for
consultants' services) made in connection with the training activities
under the Project, including the travel costs and per diems of the
trainees.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) through (5) set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after May 31, 1995.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for Educational Materials estimated to cost
less than $250,000 equivalent with the exception of the first
contract to be awarded under Part C.2(a) of Section I of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; (b) contracts for works estimated to cost
$500,000 equivalent or less with the exception of the first contract
to be awarded under Part C.2(b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (c) contracts for Maintenance Materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300 or less per classroom; (d) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $75,000
equivalent; (e) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent; and (f) Training as
set forth in Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality of
Basic Education in the territory of the Borrower; (b) to increase
student enrollment in Basic Education, including the enrollment of
children from low-income families; and (c) to strengthen the manage-
ment capacity of SEEBAC in respect of Basic Education.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Educational Development
1.   Curriculum Reform
     (a)  Carrying out of a national campaign to promote the intro-
duction of a new curriculum for Basic Education.
Page  11
     (b)  Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to
assist SEEBAC in introducing the new curriculum referred to in Part
A.1(a) above in their respective public schools which provide Basic
Education, including the provision of training required therefor.
     (c)  Design and distribution of manuals for teachers and
Parents' Associations to provide teachers and Parents' Associations
in the area of Basic Education with information on the contents of
the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above and to assist
SEEBAC in monitoring the introduction of such curriculum in public
schools providing Basic Education, including the provision of
training required therefor.
     (d)  Creation of additional curriculum resource centers in
SEEBAC's regional offices in order to assist public schools providing
Basic Education in adopting the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1
(a) above, including the provision of training to such centers'
personnel and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor.
     (e)  Carrying out of Curriculum Innovations.
     (f)  Design and distribution of guidelines for SEEBAC to manage
the implementation of the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a)
above.
     (g)  Carrying out of a review on the progress made in introducing
the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above in public schools
providing Basic Education.
2.   Educational Materials
     (a)  Design, production and distribution of textbooks and work-
books (which will be designed based on the new curriculum referred to
in Part A.1(a) above) in the areas of mathematics, natural sciences,
social sciences and Spanish for students of public schools attending
first through eighth grades.
     (b)  Design and distribution of teachers' guides that will enable
the teachers to use the textbooks and workbooks referred to in Part
A.2(a) above.
     (c)  Acquisition and distribution of required educational
materials (other than textbooks and workbooks referred to in Part
A.2(a) above) under the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a)
above for students attending public schools providing Basic Education.
     (d)  Acquisition and distribution of classroom didactic packages
(each package consisting, inter alia, of a map, a globe and
educational charts) for all public schools providing Basic Education.
     (e)  Acquisition and distribution of school supplies consisting,
inter alia, of notebooks, pencils and erasers for low-income students
attending public schools providing Basic Education, in accordance
with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
     (f)  Creation of school libraries for the benefit of pre-school
classes and first through eighth grades.
     (g)  Creation of an educational materials entity that will
coordinate and manage: (i) the design, production, printing or
acquisition (as the case may be) and distribution of textbooks,
workbooks and other educational materials to public schools pro-
viding Basic Education and (ii) the sale of textbooks, workbooks and
other educational materials to private schools providing Basic
Education, including the provision of technical assistance and the
acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor.
3.   Human Resources Development
     (a)  Carrying out of an in-service training program (based on
the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above) for school
Page  12
directors, school supervisors and teachers of public schools pro-
viding Basic Education consisting of: (i) training in the areas of
mathematics, natural sciences, social sciences and Spanish; (ii)
training on teaching techniques; and (iii) granting training cer-
tificates thereafter.
     (b)  Carrying out of an in-service training program for school
directors, school supervisors and teachers who have completed the
training program referred to in Part A.3(a) above consisting of: (i)
training on pedagogical skills, school management and teaching
specialties; and (ii) granting associate, bachelors or masters
degrees, as the case may be, thereafter.
     (c)  Carrying out of a program which consists of providing pre-
service training to candidates for teaching positions in the same
areas described under the program referred to in Part A.3(a) above.
     (d)  Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC to strengthen
its capacity  to coordinate teacher training activities.
4.   National Student Achievement
     (a)  Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC to strengthen
its capacity to design, distribute, administer and evaluate a
student achievement test for Basic Education, including the provision
of training and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor and the printing and distribution of such test
during Project implementation.
     (b)  Provision of training to teachers of public schools pro-
viding Basic Education and SEEBAC's personnel in designing and
analyzing each of the questions to be included in a student achieve-
ment test.
     (c)  Carrying out of surveys within the Borrower's territory to
assess the impact of school and socio-economic factors in student
achievement.
     (d)  Carrying out of an analysis of the student achievement test.
5.   School Nutrition Programs
     (a)  Strengthening of school nutrition programs for the provision
of food to low-income students attending urban and rural public
schools providing Basic Education by means of training on nutritional
matters to SEEBAC's personnel, the parents of the students attending
such schools and other members of the community where such public
schools are located.
     (b)  Provision of iron and vitamin A to the students attending the
public schools benefited by the school nutrition programs referred to
in Part A.5(a) above.
     (c)  Design and implementation of an iron and vitamin A
supplementation program for the benefit of students not benefited by
the school nutrition programs referred to in Part A.5(a) above.
     (d)  Provision of pharmaceuticals for the students being
benefited by the school nutrition programs referred to in Part A.5
(a) above.
     (e)  Institutional strengthening of INDOFANE in designing and
executing programs on school nutrition and health, including the
provision of technical assistance, equipment and training required
therefor.
     (f)  Carrying out of studies on: (i) the nutrition status and
needs of children who attend public schools providing Basic
Education; and (ii) the cost-effectiveness of schools' nutrition
programs.
     (g)  Design and implementation of information, education and
Page  13
communication programs on school nutrition, including the provision
of educational materials and training to SEEBAC's personnel that will
implement such programs.
6.   School Facilities
     (a)  Construction of about 70 classrooms in the public schools
providing Basic Education, to be selected in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
     (b)  Rehabilitation of classrooms in public schools providing
Basic Education, to be selected in accordance with the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual.
     (c)  Carrying out of preventive maintenance of the public
schools providing Basic Education, to be selected in accordance with
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
     (d)  Acquisition and utilization of classroom furniture for the
public schools providing Basic Education, to be selected in
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
7.   Pilot Program to Support Private Schools
     (a)  (i)  Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order
to identify and employ NGOs for purposes of assisting SEEBAC in the
identification and selection of private schools providing Basic
Education to low-income students which are in need of school improve-
ments; and (ii) carrying out of the identification and selection of
private schools providing Basic Education mentioned in (i) herein.
     (b)  (i)  Provision of technical assistance to the private
schools which have been identified and selected by NGOs as referred
to in Part A.7 (a) (ii) above in order to improve such schools'
facilities, and (ii) carrying out of minor works within the schools
referred to in (i) herein in order to improve the health and
educational services of such schools.
     (c)  Provision of in-service training to teachers of the private
schools which have been identified and selected by the NGOs as
referred to in Part A.7(a)(ii) above.
     (d)  Acquisition and distribution of educational and teaching
materials for the private schools which have been identified and
selected by NGOs as referred to in Part A.7 (a) (ii) above.
     (e)  Institutional strengthening of SEEBAC's department of
private schools in order to incorporate the private school manage-
ment information system into SEEBAC's management information system.
Part B:   Management Development
1.   Training Program for Administrators
     (a)  Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to
improve its management, budgetary, accounting and financial pro-
cedures, including the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor.
     (b)  Carrying out of a study on administrative deconcentration
of SEEBAC.
     (c)  Design and implementation of an ongoing training program
for SEEBAC's administrative personnel based on the improved pro-
cedures resulting from the carrying out of Part B.1(a) above.
2.   Management Information System
     (a)  Linkage of SEEBAC's national and sub-national offices,
Affiliated Entities and urban public schools providing Basic
Education (with more than 600 students each) through the installa-
tion of a telecommunications network.
Page  14
     (b)  Installation of telephones in urban and rural public
schools providing Basic Education which have met the criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual.
     (c)  Installation of a radio communication system in rural
public schools providing Basic Education in order to improve the
dissemination of educational and management information to students
and teachers.
     (d)  Improvement of SEEBAC's central data processing systems in
order to incorporate such systems to SEEBAC's management information
system, including the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor.
     (e)  Provision of training to SEEBAC's personnel and the
directors of public schools providing Basic Education on the
operation of the management information system referred to in
Part B.2(d) above.
3.   Parents' Associations
     Design and implementation of a national program for Parents'
Associations of public schools providing Basic Education in order
to foster their participation in the Basic Education system,
through: (a) the provision of training to such Parents' Associa-
tions in the areas of school organization and maintenance, leader-
ship and fund raising; (b) the provision of training to SEEBAC's
personnel in order to carry out the program referred to herein;
(c) the acquisition and utilization of motorcycles for SEEBAC's
personnel to enable such personnel to carry out their duties and
responsibilities under the program referred to herein; (d) the
design and distribution of the necessary information materials to
the Parents' Associations with respect to the contents of the
program referred to herein; and (e) the carrying out of educational
improvements.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation System
     Design and implementation of  a monitoring and evaluation system
to assist SEEBAC in monitoring and evaluating the execution of the
Project in accordance with the Project indicators and targets set
forth in the Implementation Letter.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due             (expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2001                           715,000
October 15, 2001                         740,000
April 15, 2002                           765,000
October 15, 2002                         790,000
April 15, 2003                           820,000
October 15, 2003                         850,000
April 15, 2004                           880,000
October 15, 2004                         910,000
April 15, 2005                           940,000
October 15, 2005                         975,000
April 15, 2006                         1,010,000
October 15, 2006                       1,045,000
April 15, 2007                         1,080,000
October 15, 2007                       1,120,000
April 15, 2008                         1,160,000
October 15, 2008                       1,200,000
April 15, 2009                         1,240,000
Page  15
October 15, 2009                       1,285,000
April 15, 2010                         1,330,000
October 15, 2010                       1,380,000
April 15, 2011                         1,430,000
October 15, 2011                       1,480,000
April 15, 2012                         1,530,000
October 15, 2012                       1,585,000
April 15, 2013                         1,640,000
October 15, 2013                       1,700,000
April 15, 2014                         1,760,000
October 15, 2014                       1,820,000
April 15, 2015                         1,885,000
October 15, 2015                       1,935,000
______________________
*    The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                        Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be
prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                   0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
Page  16
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost each $250,000 equivalent or
more and $3,000,000 or more each, respectively.
     (b)  Two-stage bidding procedure
     The bidding procedure for library books shall be carried out in
two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the
Guidelines.
     (c)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Pharmaceuticals, computer and peripheral equipment, software and
vehicles which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Educational Materials estimated to cost more than $50,000
but less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent but
less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (c)  In the procurement of Educational Materials and works in
accordance with this Part C.2, the Borrower shall use standard
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
3.   National Shopping
     Educational Materials estimated to cost $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost $250,000 or less per contract, and not
to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be procured
under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
Page  17
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to successfully complete the contract.
5.  Direct Contracting
     (a)  Maintenance Materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300 or less per classroom, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$4,400,000, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may, with the Bank's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract awarded under Parts B.1 and
C.1 of this Section; (b) the first contract awarded under Part C.2
(a) and (b) of this Section; and (c) all contracts awarded under
Part C.2 (b) of this Section estimated to cost more than $500,000
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms accept-
able to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $35,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions
to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consult-
ing firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $35,000 equivalent or
above.
Page  18
                               SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis
               of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
               the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
               deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
               Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
               Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
Page  19
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
