Page  1
December 7, 2000
His Excellency
Fernando Alvarez Bogaert
Secretary of  Public Finance
Secretariat of Public Finance
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Re:
Loan No. 3951-DO
(Second Basic Education Development Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated October 31, 1996 between the Dominican 
Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank). 
In response to: (a) the letter of the Secretary of SEEBAC to the Bank of October 
18, 2000 requesting to, inter alia,  extend the Closing Date from June 30, 2001 to 
June 30, 2003 to continue the disbursement of Loan proceeds to finance, inter alia, 
the carrying out of a pre-primary education pilot activities and School District 
Subprojects; and (b) the letter of the Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia to the 
Bank of November 29, 2000 requesting to replace the authorized representative of the 
Borrower, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Implementation 
Letter as follows:
I.
Loan Agreement: 
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affiliated Entity" means any entity under the jurisdiction of SEEBAC;
 
(b)
"Basic Education" means pre-primary, primary (which includes first 
through sixth grades) and lower secondary (which includes seventh and eighth grades) 
education;
(c)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank (Banco Central de la República 
Dominicana) of the Borrower;
(d)
"Community Entity" means any group of individuals or entity (other than 
Parents' Associations) acceptable to the Bank;
(e)
"Curriculum Innovations" means any proposal, acceptable to the Bank, made 
by a Parents' Association through SEEBAC to support the implementation of the new 
curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) of the Project;
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank which sets forth the minimum counterpart funds necessary to carry 
out the Project and the Project indicators and targets;
(g)
"INDOFANE" means the National Institute of School Nutrition (Instituto 
Dominicano de Fomento de la Alimentación y Nutrición Escolar) of the Borrower;
(h)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization, acceptable to the Borrower 
and the Bank;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank (adopted 
by the Borrower), which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the terms of reference of the 
training programs to be carried out under the Project; (ii) the procurement procedures 
to be followed by the Borrower, through SEEBAC, in carrying out the Project (including 
the standard bidding documents referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (iii) the 
terms and conditions of a model Participation Agreement; (iv) the criteria for 
Page  2
selecting schools under Part A.2 (e) of the Project; and (v) the criteria for 
selecting schools under Part A.6 of the Project;
(j)
"Parents' Association"  means a parents' association of a public school 
providing Basic Education duly acknowledged by SEEBAC;
(k)
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(l)
"PCU" means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(m)
"Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(n)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01(d) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"School District " means a decentralized agency under the jurisdiction of 
SEEBAC and established within the territorial jurisdiction of a municipality for the 
purposes of, inter alia, carrying out school construction, rehabilitation and 
maintenance activities of public schools under said School District jurisdiction;
(p)
School District Arrangement" means any of the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement;
(q)
"School District Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
SEEBAC to a School District out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of partially 
financing a School District Subproject;
(r)
"School District Subproject" means any of the activities under Part A.6 
(c) (ii) of the Project;
(s)
"SEEBAC" means the Secretariat of State for Education, Fine Arts and 
Cults (Secretaría de Estado de Educación, Bellas Artes y Culto) of the Borrower;
(t)
"SESPAS" means the Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance 
(Secretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social) of the Borrower; and
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement".
2.
Section 2.02 (a) is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"(a)
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts disbursed (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be disbursed) under a 
School District Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the carrying out of a School District Subproject; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project 
(with the exception of Part A.6 (c)(ii) of the Project), all described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.".
3.
    Section 2.03 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 2.03.  "The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later dates as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.".
4.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, shall carry out: 
(i)
Parts A.1(a), (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g), A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5(a), 
(b), (c), (e), (f) and (g),A.6(a), (b) and (d), A.7, A.8, B.1, 
B.2, B.3(a) through (d) and B.4 of the Project, through SEEBAC; 
(ii)
Part A.1 (e) and A.6 (c) (i) of the Project, through SEEBAC with 
the participation of the Parents' Associations (as provided in 
Page  3
paragraph (b) below);
(iii)
Part A.6 (c) (ii) of the Project through SEEBAC with the 
participation of the corresponding School District Council in 
accordance with the respective School District Arrangement (as 
provided in paragraph (f) below); and
(iv)
Part A.5(d) of the Project, through SEEBAC with the assistance of 
SESPAS, all with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with 
the Operational Manual, and in conformity with appropriate 
managerial, administrative, financial and educational practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above and for 
purposes of carrying out Parts A.1 (e), A.6 (c) (i) and B.3 (e) of the Project, the 
Borrower, through SEEBAC, shall enter into a participation agreement (the 
Participation Agreement) with the
corresponding Parents' Association or Community Entity (as the case may be) under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets for the education sector, 
and make available promptly as needed in Pesos equivalent, the counterpart funds 
required for Project implementation (including the minimum amounts set forth in the 
Implementation Letter for each year of Project implementation) provided, however, that 
if any such counterpart funds is not used in the corresponding year, such funds shall 
be reallocated to subsequent years in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, as may be 
required for the efficient execution of the Project.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall open, and thereafter operate and maintain, until the completion of 
the Project, a Project account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of depositing and 
managing the counterpart funds required for Project implementation referred to in 
paragraph (c) above.
(e)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
assign, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(f)
Upon approval of a School District Subproject by SEEBAC, the Borrower, 
through SEEBAC, shall transfer, on a grant basis, a School District Grant to the 
corresponding School District under an arrangement (the School District Arrangement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower, through SEEBAC and said School District, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(g)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project taking into account the Project indicators and targets set 
forth in the Implementation Letter.".
5.
Section 3.06 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section9.01 
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than February 28 of 
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, review with the 
Bank the progress made by the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the Project; and 
(ii) achieving the objectives of the Project.  Such review shall, inter alia, 
focus on analyzing the progress reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement for the corresponding year of Project implementation.  As part of 
each such review the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  
If so, the Borrower shall furnish such action plan to the Bank not later than 
thirty 
days after the conclusion of the review in question and shall 
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in 
accordance with its terms.
(b)
The Borrower shall participate in a Project implementation 
mid-term review to be held  with the Bank as part of the annual review to be 
held not later than February 28, 1999 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish.".
Page  4
6.
Sections 7.01 and 7.02 are hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Technical Secretary of the Presidency of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia
Palacio Nacional
Avenida México
Santo Domingo
República Dominicana
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)".
7.
The table in paragraph 1 set forth in Schedule 1 is hereby amended in its 
entirety to read as set forth in Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
8.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as set forth in Annex 2 to 
this Amendment Letter.
9.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
"(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;".
II.
Implementation Letter:
1.
The second paragraph is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"With reference to Section 3.01(c) and (g) of the Loan Agreement, the 
Borrower confirms its understanding with the Bank that:  (a) the counterpart 
funds required for the Project will be allocated as follows: (i) from the 
Effective Date through September 30, 2000, both inclusive, US$1,577,106.01 
equivalent; and (ii) from October 1, 2000 through December 31, 2002, both 
inclusive US$2,970,948.11 equivalent; (b) such allocations may be revised with 
the Bank's agreement, as required during the execution of the project; and (c) 
the 
Project indicators and targets are those set forth in the Annex to this 
letter.". 
2.
The annex is hereby amended in its entirety to read as set forth in Annex 3 to 
this Amendment Letter.
III.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original; and (b) become effective on the date on which the Bank shall 
have received: (i) one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; and (ii) 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Operational Manual has been amended in 
accordance with the terms of this Amendment Letter. Please confirm your agreement to 
the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment 
Letter. 
Page  5
Very truly yours,
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Fernando Alvarez Bogaert
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 2, 2001
ANNEX 1
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of  expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (other than
    14,000,000
78%
preventive main-
tenance) under 
Part A.6 (a) and (b),
and A.8 (a) of the 
Project
(2)
Goods:
(a) Maintenance 
      2,200,000
100% until withdrawals
materials under 
have reached an
Part A.6 (c) (i) of
aggregate amount
the Project
equivalent to
$1,300,000; and 70%
thereafter
(b)
Educational 
4,900,000
100% of foreign 
materials and 
expenditures and 92% 
workbooks under
of local expenditures
Parts A.2 (a) 
through (f), A.4 
(a), A.5 (g), A.8 (b)
and B.3 of the Project
(c)
Equipment and 
1,700,000
100% of foreign ex-
vehicles under Parts 
penditures and
A.4 (a) and
92% of local
A.5 (e) of the Project
expenditures
(3)
Pharmaceuticals under 
   55,000
50%
Part A.5 (b), (c) and
(d) of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ Services
4,800,000
100%
(including individual
consultants for the PCU)
(5)
Training under Parts    5,000,000
100%
A.3, A.4 (a) and (b) 
Page  6
and B.3 of
the Project
(6)
School District Grants
1,700,000
100% of the amount
disbursed
(7)
Unallocated
      2,645,000
TOTAL
37,000,000"
ANNEX 2
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality of Basic Education 
in the territory of the Borrower; (b) to increase student enrollment in Basic 
Education, including the enrollment of children from low-income families; and (c) to 
strengthen the management capacity of EEBAC in respect of Basic Education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Educational Development
1.
Curriculum Reform
 
(a)
Carrying out of a national campaign to promote the introduction of a new 
curriculum for Basic Education.
(b)
Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to assist SEEBAC in 
introducing the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above in their respective 
public schools which provide Basic Education, including the provision of training 
required therefor.
(c)
Design and distribution of manuals for teachers and Parents' Associations 
to provide teachers and Parents' Associations in the area of Basic Education with 
information on the contents of the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above and 
to assist SEEBAC in monitoring the introduction of such curriculum in public schools 
providing Basic Education, including the provision of training required therefor.
(d)
Creation of additional curriculum resource centers in SEEBAC's regional 
offices in order to assist public schools providing Basic Education in adopting the 
new curriculum referred to in Part A.1 (a) above, including the provision of training 
to such centers'  personnel and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment 
required therefor.
(e)
Carrying out of Curriculum Innovations.
 
(f)
Design and distribution of guidelines for SEEBAC to manage the 
implementation of the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above.
(g)
Carrying out of a review on the progress made in introducing the new 
curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above in public schools providing Basic 
Education.
2.   Educational Materials
 
(a)
Design, production and distribution of textbooks and workbooks (which 
will be designed based on the new curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above) in the 
areas of mathematics, natural sciences, social sciences and Spanish for students of 
public schools attending first through eighth grades.
(b)
Design and distribution of teachers' guides that will enable the teachers 
to use the textbooks and workbooks referred to in Part A.2(a) above.
(c)
Acquisition and distribution of required educational materials (other 
than textbooks and workbooks referred to in Part A.2(a) above) under the new 
curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above for students attending public schools 
providing Basic Education.
Page  7
(d)
Acquisition and distribution of classroom didactic packages (each package 
consisting, inter alia, of a map, a globe and educational charts) for all public 
schools providing Basic Education.
(e)
Acquisition and distribution of school supplies consisting, inter alia, 
of notebooks, pencils and erasers for low-income students attending public schools 
providing Basic Education, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
(f)
Creation of school libraries for the benefit of pre-school classes and 
first through eighth grades.
(g)
Creation of an educational materials entity that will coordinate and 
manage: (i) the design, production, printing or acquisition (as the case may be) and 
distribution of textbooks, workbooks and other educational materials to public schools 
providing Basic Education and (ii) the sale of textbooks, workbooks and other 
educational materials to private schools providing Basic Education, including the 
provision of technical assistance and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment 
required therefor.
3.   Human Resources Development
 
(a)
Carrying out of an in-service training program (based on the new 
curriculum referred to in Part A.1(a) above) for school directors, school supervisors 
and teachers of public schools providing Basic Education consisting of: (i) training 
in the areas of mathematics, natural sciences, social sciences and Spanish; (ii) 
training on teaching techniques; and (iii) granting training certificates thereafter.
(b)
Carrying out of an in-service training program for school directors, 
school supervisors and teachers who have completed the training program referred to in 
Part A.3(a) above consisting of: (i) training on pedagogical skills, school management 
and teaching specialties; and (ii) granting associate, bachelors or masters degrees, 
as the case may be, thereafter.
(c)
Carrying out of a program which consists of providing pre-service 
training to candidates for teaching positions in the same areas described under the 
program referred to in Part A.3(a) above.
(d)
Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC to strengthen its capacity  
to coordinate teacher training activities.
(e)
Carrying out of studies to evaluate the impact of the in-service teacher 
training program under Part A.3 (a), (b) and (c) above for the purposes of improving, 
if necessary, said training activities. 
4.   National Student Achievement
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC to strengthen its capacity to 
design, distribute, administer and evaluate a student achievement test for Basic 
Education, including the provision of training and the acquisition and utilization of 
the equipment required therefor and the printing and distribution of such test during 
Project implementation.
(b)
Provision of training to teachers of public schools providing Basic 
Education and SEEBAC's personnel in designing and analyzing each of the questions to 
be included in a student achievement test.
(c)
Carrying out of surveys within the Borrower's territory to assess the 
impact of school and socio-economic factors in student achievement.
(d)
Carrying out of an analysis of the student achievement test.
(e)
Carrying out of an evaluation of SEEBAC’s national student assessment 
program.
5.
School Nutrition Programs
 
(a)
Strengthening of school nutrition programs for the provision of food to 
low-income students attending urban and rural public schools providing Basic Education 
by means of training on nutritional matters to SEEBAC's personnel, the parents of the 
students attending such schools and other members of the community where such public 
Page  8
schools are located.
(b)
Provision of iron and vitamin A to the students attending the public 
schools benefited by the school nutrition programs referred to in Part A.5(a) above.
(c)
Design and implementation of an iron and vitamin A supplementation 
program for the benefit of students not benefited by the school nutrition programs 
referred to in Part A.5(a) above.
(d)
Provision of pharmaceuticals for the students being benefited by the 
school nutrition programs referred to in Part A.5 (a) above.
(e)
Institutional strengthening of INDOFANE in designing and executing 
programs on school nutrition and health, including the provision of technical 
assistance, equipment and training required therefor.
(f)
Carrying out of studies on: (i) the nutrition status and needs of 
children who attend public schools providing Basic Education; and (ii) the 
cost-effectiveness of schools' nutrition programs.
(g)
Design and implementation of information, education and communication 
programs on school nutrition, including the provision of educational materials and 
training to SEEBAC's personnel that will implement such programs.
6.   School Facilities
 
(a)
Construction of about 70 classrooms in the public schools providing Basic 
Education, to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual.
(b)
Rehabilitation of classrooms in public schools providing Basic Education, 
to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
(c)
(i) Carrying out of preventive maintenance of public schools providing 
Basic Education; and (ii) carrying out of routine maintenance activities of public 
schools providing Basic Education (including the improvement of classrooms of said 
schools, as appropriate), all to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual.
(d)
Acquisition and utilization of classroom furniture for the public schools 
providing Basic Education, to be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual.
7.   Pilot Program to Support Private Schools
 
(a)
(i) Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to identify and 
employ NGOs for purposes of assisting SEEBAC in the identification and selection of 
private schools providing Basic Education to low-income students which are in need of 
school improvements; and (ii) carrying out of the identification and selection of 
private schools providing Basic Education mentioned in (i) herein.
(b)
(i) Provision of technical assistance to the private schools which have 
been identified and selected by NGOs as referred to in Part A.7 (a) (ii) above in 
order to improve such schools' facilities, and (ii) carrying out of minor works within 
the schools referred to in (i) herein in order to improve the health and educational 
services of such schools.
(c)
Provision of in-service training to teachers of the private schools which 
have been identified and selected by the NGOs as referred to in Part A.7(a)(ii) above.
(d)
Acquisition and distribution of educational and teaching materials for 
the private schools which have been identified and selected by NGOs as referred to in 
Part A.7 (a) (ii) above.
(e)
Institutional strengthening of SEEBAC's department of private schools in 
order to incorporate the private school management information system into SEEBAC's 
management information system.
8.
Pre- Primary Education
(a)
Construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, of about 50 
classrooms in public schools which provide pre-primary education, said schools to be 
Page  9
selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
(b)
Acquisition and utilization of classroom furniture and educational 
materials for those classrooms benefited under Part A.8 (a) above.
(c)
Carrying out of: (i) analyzes of the pre-primary education subsector; and 
(ii) studies to monitor and evaluate the activities under Part A.8 (a) and (b) above.
Part B:   Management Development
1.
Training Program for Administrators
 
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to SEEBAC in order to improve its 
management, budgetary, accounting and financial procedures, including the acquisition 
and utilization of the equipment required therefor.
(b)
Carrying out of a study on administrative deconcentration of SEEBAC.
 
(c)
Design and implementation of an ongoing training program for SEEBAC's 
administrative personnel based on the improved procedures resulting from the carrying 
out of Part B.1(a) above.
2.
Management Information System
 
(a)
Linkage of SEEBAC's national and sub-national offices, Affiliated 
Entities and urban public schools providing Basic Education (with more than 600 
students each) through the installation of a telecommunications network.
(b)
Installation of telephones in urban and rural public schools providing 
Basic Education which have met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
(c)
Installation of a radio communication system in rural public schools 
providing Basic Education in order to improve the dissemination of educational and 
management information to students and teachers.
(d)
Improvement of SEEBAC's central data processing systems in order to 
incorporate such systems to SEEBAC's management information system, including the 
acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor.
(e)
Provision of training to SEEBAC's personnel and the directors of public 
schools providing Basic Education on the operation of the management information 
system referred to in Part B.2 (d) above.
3.
Parents' Associations
 
Design and implementation of a national program for Parents' Associations of 
public schools providing Basic Education in order to foster their participation in the 
Basic Education system, through: (a) the provision of training to such Parents' 
Associations in the areas of school organization and maintenance, leadership and fund 
raising; (b) the provision of training to SEEBAC's personnel in order to carry out the 
program referred to herein; (c) the acquisition and utilization of motorcycles for 
SEEBAC's personnel to enable such personnel to carry out their duties and 
responsibilities under the program referred to herein; (d) the design and distribution 
of the necessary information materials to the Parents' Associations with respect to 
the contents of the
program referred to herein; and (e) the carrying out of educational improvements.
4.
Monitoring and Evaluation System
 
Design and implementation of  a monitoring and evaluation system to assist 
SEEBAC in monitoring and evaluating the execution of the Project in accordance with 
the Project indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.".
Page  10
