                                           Documentof
                                      The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNO:   30267-AFR




                            PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                             ONA

            PROPOSEDGRANTINTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 13.7MILLION
                             (USD20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                  GREAT LAKESINITIATIVE              ON HIWAIDS       (GLIA)


                                       February 18,2005




HumanDevelopment I11
CountryDepartment 16
Africa RegionalOffice
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.




'Membercountries:Burundi, DemocraticRepublic of the Congo, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   Exchange Rate Effective September 30,2004


                           CurrencyUnit = SDR
                                     SDR = US$1
                             US$1.46779 = SDR 1

                                  FISCALYEAR
                              January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS     Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV      Anti-Retroviral (Drugs)
ART      Anti-Retroviral Therapy
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
cso      Civil Society Organizations
CM       Council of Ministers
DFID     Department for IntemationalDevelopment (UK)
FMA      Fiduciary Management Agent
FMR      Financial Management Report
GLIA     Great Lakes Initiative onHIV/AIDS
EC       Executive Committee
ES       Executive Secretariat
AIDS     Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
HIV      HumanImmune Deficiency Virus
HIV/AIDS HumanImmuneDeficiency Virus/ Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Intemally Displaced People
PCG      Partnership Consultative Group
PMTCT    Prevention o f Mother-To-Child Transmission
PLWHA   People Living With HIV/AIDS
QCBS    Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBD      Standard BiddingDocuments
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB      Tuberculosis
TOR     Terms o f Reference
TOT     Training o f Trainers
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNAIDS  Joint UnitedNations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNHCR   UnitedNations HighCommissioner for Refugees
UNITAR  United Nations Institute for Training and Research
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VCT     Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO     World HealthOrganization
                          Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                                Director:      Mark Tomlinson
                         Sector Manager:       KeithHansen
                      Task Team Leader:        Pamphile Kantabaze, Richard Seifman

                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                             AFRICA
                   Great LakesInitiative on HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project


                                            CONTENTS

                                                                              Page
     A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                          1

     1. Regionalandsector issues                                                1
     2.  Rationale for Bank involvement                                         2
     3.   Higher level objectives to which the project contributes              3

     B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                                      4

     1. Grantinstrument
     2.   Program objective and phases
     3.   Project development objective and key indicators
     4.   Project components
     5.   Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design
     6.   Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection

     C. IMPLEMENTATION                                                          7

      1. Partnershiparrangements                                                 7
     2.   Institutional and implementation arrangements                          8
     3.   Monitoring and evaluationof outcomes/results                          10
     4.   Sustainability                                                        10
      5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects                     11
      6.  Grant conditions and covenants                                        12

     D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY                                                       12

      1. Economicandfinancial analyses                                          12
      2.  Technical                                                             13
      3.  Fiduciary                                                             13

      Procurement:                                                              14
      4.  Social                                                                14
      5.  Environment                                                           15
      6.  Safeguard policies                                                    15
      7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness                                       16


          MAP: IBRD33675

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bailk authorization.

             ANNEXES:

Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background                            17
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies  18
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                                   20
Annex 4: DetailedProject Description                                        26
Annex 5: Project Costs                                                      32
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                                         33
Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                  42
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                                           52
Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                                    59
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues                                           63
Annex 11:Project Supervision                                                66
Annex 12: Project Preparation                                               67
Annex 13: Documents inthe Project File                                      72
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits                                    73
Annex 15: Country at a Glance                                               74

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Regional and sector issues

Migration, commerce, social cohesion and development challenges among ethnic groups
have historically gone beyond conventional political/national boundaries in the Great Lakes
Region. With a population o f approximately 158 million, a total land mass o f 4,165 thousand
square kilometers (World Development Report, 2004), and long, porous and unguarded
borders between countries in the region, addressing HIV/AIDS solely on a country-by-
country basis ignores regional realities and misses an opportunity to make national programs
more effective through trans-national cooperation.

Refugee, IDP and returnee populations represent a changing percentage o f the region's total
population; however, the cumulative numbers for the region over the last two decades are
substantial, with UNHCR estimating that currently the number o f Great Lakes Region
refugees and IDPs is well over 6.5 million, not including returnees. The United Nations
Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) estimates that migrant movement from all
causes (commerce, family visitation, job seeking, education) are in the many millions per
year among the six countries.

Ministers o f Health from the six member countries (Burundi,Democratic Republic o f Congo-
DRC, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda), with initial support from UNAIDS, launched
the Great Lakes Initiative on HIV/AIDS (GLIA) in 1998. A secretariat was created and has
functioned for nearly five years. There has been pilot testing o f cross-border interventions in
transport and numerous workshops and consultations among the partners. The GLIA
countries recognize that they need to go beyond these modest efforts to create the critical
mass o f regional programs and policies that can make a difference intheir collective effort to
stem the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Mobilepopulations, networks o f populations which are highly
mobile and/or represent high risk when mobile (PLWAs), harmonizing health policies,
programs and services, and sharing epidemiological, behavioral and program data, all
represent potentially significant mutualbenefit.

Great Lakes countries are particularly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic with more than 6
millionpeople living with HIV/AIDSout o f a total o f some 25 million inSub-Saharan Africa
(UNAIDS, 2004). It i s estimated that more than 3 million children have been orphaned or
made vulnerable by HIV/AIDS in the GLIA countries. With already high levels o f HIV
infection in the early 199Os, the situation has deteriorated over the past decade with massive
displacement of populations, resulting from conflicts, genocide, natural disasters and difficult
socio-economic conditions. Aggregated figures o f adults age 15-49 reflect prevalence rates
range from 4.1% to 8.8%. By country it is Burundi (6.0%); DRC (4.2%); Kenya (6.7%);
Rwanda (5.1%);    Tanzania (8.8%);    and Uganda (4.1%) (December 2003 data provided in
2004, UNAIDS).

HIV/AIDS is dramatically fueling the TB epidemic with up to 75 percent o f TB patients in
some countries co-infected. As can be seen from the figure to the right the trend in HIV
prevalence inKenya mirrors closely the pattern o f new TB cases with roughly a five year lag.
Co-infection is a particularly serious problem amongst displaced populations in the region
who are living in extremely difficult conditions. It i s likely that co-infection rates are
relatively highamongst these groups which are a major focus o f the GLIA operation. Four o f
the countries inthe region(Kenya, DRC, Tanzania and Uganda) are amongst the nine highest
TB burdencountries insub-Saharan Afi-ica.


                                                1

Uganda remains the key success story in curbing the AIDS epidemic with continual declines
inHIVprevalence amongpregnant women, which are now estimated at roughly 8 percent in
Kampala compared to 30 percent a decade ago. Other countries are now beginning to find
lower levels of infection among pregnant women inurban areas which are hardest hit by the
epidemic. For example, in Rwanda the proportion o f women found to be HIV positive i s
currently estimated at 13 percent inKigali from a higho f 35 percent in 1993. However, given
massive population movements following the 1994 genocide, comparisons over time need to
be drawn with caution.

The large number o f infected and affected people constitutes a significant burden on the
Great Lakes economies. Health systems are seriously strained and access to treatment for
AIDS and related illnesses remains limited. The economies are among the poorest, with an
average annual GDP in GLIA countries o f $208. Traditional coping mechanisms o f families
and communities are already overburdened.

Cross-border service delivery programs and dialogue can contribute to national HIV/AIDS
efforts. GLIA pilot interventions in the transport sector have shown that it i s possible for
cross-border activities to reach major vectors of disease transmission. Regional workshops
hosted by GLIA countries such as those on HIV/AIDS care (Rwanda, 2003), refugee,
networking and M&E (DRC 2004), and legal framework (Tanzania, 2004), can effectively
bringgovernmental, nongovernmental organizations, civil society, pharmaceutical and other
private sector parties together, to buildpartnerships.

2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement

Each o f the six GLIA countries has a national HIV/AIDS strategy and program all countries
have already received financing under the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region (MAP). While these programs address national concerns they are not well positioned
or usually designed to address the many cross-border aspects which intersect with national
efforts, and which can affect the success o f such programs. GLIA as an institution was
created to "add value to national programs", neither substituting for, nor competing with,
these much larger efforts, and this i s embodied in the signed "Convention Establishing the
Great Lakes Initiative onAIDS".

All GLIA countries satisfied basic criteria for MAP eligibility, namely satisfactory
evidence o f a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS, a high level coordinating body, and
willingness to use exceptional implementation arrangements and multiple channels. The
regional approach builds on this eligibility, complements M A P projects in all GLIA
countries, and contributes to the effectiveness o f the national efforts.

World Bank involvement provides: (a) a broad developmental perspective and understanding
as to how HIV/AIDS fits into this agenda; (b) experience inover 28 countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa in designing and implementing programs under the MAP; (c) experience inpreparing
regional multi-country HIV/AIDS-focused efforts, such as the AbidjadLagos HIV/AIDS
Transport Corridor and African Regional Capacity Building Network for HIV/AIDS
Prevention, Care, and Treatment (ARCAN) projects; (d) the ability to dialogue with countries
which may be in defacto conflict with one another, at the highest political and economic
levels; and (e) experience in subregional multi-donor disarmament, demobilization and
reintegrationefforts.



                                                2

It innoted that the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS (MAP2) Program for the Africa Region(Report
No. P7497 AFR, December 20, 2001, pp. 22-23), specifically includes subregional qants. It
contains a criteria for subregional grants, all o f which are met by the GLIA Support Project, a
proposed IDA grant which complements M A P support, inthat GLIA:
     0   Addresses a regional or cross-border HIV/AIDS issue, promotes a public good o f
         multinational scope, provides services to populations beyond the reach o f national
         programs, and realizes economies o f scale that would not be practical to attain
         through cooperative country-level action: GLIA's mission is to address HIV/AIDS
         in a regional context;
     a   Has been endorsed by the governments o f the countries concerned and a relevant
         public regional organization: Thesigning of the GLIA Convention establishing it as
         an international organization is a concrete endorsementand commitment;
     0   I s consistent with the HIV/AIDS strategies, policies and programs o f the affected
         countries and with any relevant subregional and international strategy and policy:
         GLIA will be the one regional policy, the one secretariat, and the one M&E system
        for the region. It will be consistentwith national HIV/AIDS efforts;
     0   Has established a high-level coordinating body to oversee implementation o f the
         project: The GLIA Council of Ministers and GLIAExecutive Committee will oversee
         theproject;
     0   Will have appropriate institutions, policies, procedures and regulations in place to
         enable the concerned subregional and national stakeholders to effectively
         participate: The GLIA Convention principles explicitly assure equal ownership and
         involvement of PLWAS;and
     0   Will use exceptional implementation arrangements to accelerate project
         implementation, including subcontracting key implementation tasks and channeling
         funds to communities, civil society institutions, and the private sector: The
         Operations Manual describes subcontracting of key implementation tasks including
        Jinancial and procurement management, monitoring and evaluation, funding of
         refugee and returnee communities, and supportfor civil society networks.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes
    0  While this project is not listed inthe CASs for any o f the Great Lakes member states,
       the countries involvedhave decided to develop a sub-regional project intandem with
       national efforts to address HIV/AIDS ina more efficient and coordinatedmanner.
    0  Concerted action by UNAIDS partners, including the World Bank and UNHCR, and
       other donors in support o f a regional initiative, national and regional ownership and
       accountability.
    0  NEPAD objectives that relate to HIV/AIDS and regional institutions increasing taking
       on responsibility for coordinated efforts.
    0  Addressing Great Lakes problems o f transient populations and policy coordination
       through:
       (a) Regionally owned institutional capacity to coordinate a multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS
       response;
       (b) Improving the situation o f vulnerable and often underserved vulnerable groups;
       and
       (c) Confidence building among the GLIA countries in working together for mutual
       benefit inaddressing a common enemy, namely the HIV virus.




                                                 3

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Grantinstrument

Given the nature and extent o f HIV/AIDS inthis highprevalence region and the urgent need
to contain its spread, the multi-country focus o f activities, the region's very fragile
economies, grant financing i s appropriate. IDA Articles o f Agreement permit financing to "a
member, the government o f a territory included within the Associations membership, a
political subdivision o f any o f the foregoing, a public or private entity in the territories o f a
member or members, or to a public international or regional organization" (Article V, Section
2 (c). As a regional organization established by intemational Convention and fully owned by
the six Member States which are IDA members in good-standing, GLIA satisfies IDA
requirements.

2. ProgramObjectiveandPhases

To contribute to the reduction o f HIV infections and to mitigate the socio-economic impact o f
the epidemic in the Great Lakes Region by developing regional collaboration and
implementing interventions that can add value to the efforts o f each individual country
("GLIA MissionStatement").

3. Projectdevelopmentobjective and key indicators

The development objectives o f the project are to facilitate:


0   Establishment o f HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and mitigation programs for
    mobile and vulnerable groups such as refugees, transport sector workers, and highly
    affectedinfected populations ineach o f the GLIA Member States, and
0   Enhancement o f prospects for coordinated approaches addressing HIV/AIDS prevention,
    care, treatment andmitigation among the GLIA Member States.

The key performance indicators measuring effectiveness o f project interventions (in those
areas where GLIA directly intervenes), will be: (a) a reduction in HIV prevalence in the
refugee and surrounding populations; (b) a reduction inthe number o f infected infants bom
to HIV infected mothers; (c) an increase in the number o f youth (aged 15-24) reporting
condom use during sexual intercourse with a non-regular partner (adapted UNGASS
indicator); (d) improved gender sensitivity inthe target population; and (e) an increase inthe
number o f youth respondents (aged 15-24) who correctly identify ways o f preventing HIV
transmission and who reject major misconceptions about HIV transmissions or prevention
(adapted United Nations General Assembly Special Session-UNGASS indicator). Annex 3
contains the Results Framework which provides detailed treatment o fperformance indicators.

4. Projectcomponents

The proposed IDA Grant o f $20.0 million would finance a four-year program. The direct
beneficiaries are a) refugees, IDPs, returnees, and surrounding area communities at selected
sites (in every GLIA country), and b) transport and PLWA association members. Indirect
beneficiaries are those in the Region who gain from better health policies, programs and
service delivery as a result o f cross-fertilization. The four components (detailed in Annex 4
and inOperations Manual) are as follows;



                                                  4

  Component l: HIVIAIDS support to refugees, affected areas surrounding the refugee
  communities, internally displacedpeople, returnees (US$8.0million).

  Refugee sites and adjacent affected areas represent underserved Great Lakes populations; and
  retumees constitute another potential target population. This component will provide services
  to a limited number of such populations, and could include the full range o f prevention, care,
  treatment and mitigation, principally through provisiono f services and goods (very little civil
  works, primarily rehabilitation, is envisioned). "Transportability" o f what is leamed or done
  for refugees, and "integration" o f GLIA-financed activities with the national program will
  determine program content. Activities will be closely monitored and evaluated using linked
  behavioral and biological surveillance surveys and sentinel sites so that if successful GLIA
  countries and donors will support replication. Over the four year period a) UNHCR sites
  (principally refugee camps) are estimated at US$5.0 million, and b) surrounding areas, IDPs,
  and retumees are estimated at USS3.0 million.

  UNHCR, which has HIV/AIDSprograms underway and will be scaling up existing programs
  or supporting portions o f new GLIA areas, will be responsible for refugee sites; programs in
  affected   surrounding     areas    will   be    administered    by     the   national   AIDS
  Commissions/Secretariats (NACNAS) within the national HIV/AIDS-MAP framework
  (unless the GLIA country and UNHCR agree UNHCR should take on additional tasks in
  affected areas); retumees and IDPs will be the shared responsibility o f UNHCR and the
  NACNAS, depending on the country circumstance. A Memorandum o f Understanding
  between GLIA and UNHCR will be presented to the Council o f Ministers at its next session.
  A Management Contract between GLIA and the UNHCR will set the terms and conditions
  for financing UNHCR activities. This Management Contract has been drafted and will be
  submitted to IDA for no-objection. Site selection was agreed on during project preparation
  and programs designed using a standardized instrument for situational analysis and
  development o f HIV/AIDS program action plans. For the first project year a maximum of
  two such sitedcatchment areas were chosen in each GLIA country and work plans were
  prepared in August 2004. Additional sites can be added in subsequent years using the same
  methodology, and will be included inannual workplans submitted to the Council o f Ministers
  for approval. The approved sites that satisfactorily implement first year plans will be
  continued. Annual plans will be submitted to the World Bank for no-objection on a
  consolidatedbasis.

  Component 2: Support to HIWAIDS related n'etworks (US$3.0 million). The transport
  sector and PLWA are two high priority regional groups which have been the subject o f
  exchanges among GLIA countries, conferences, and informal linkages. In the case o f
  transport, GLIA has conducted pilot programs ("the Safari Sap' program in 2001-2002).
  Transport networking would focus on a) long-haul workers and those communities and
  groups associated with them, and b) on two principal transmission corridors, namely (i)
  Mombasa-Nairobi-Kampala-Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukavu-Goma, and (ii)Dar es Salaam-
  Dodoma-Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukavu-Goma.It is also recognized that lake transport is very
  important in the Region and can be taken into account in due course under the Project.
  Subregional PLWHA network support would: (i)      provide important reinforcement o f national
  and under-funded regional advocacy efforts to reduce stigma o f those infected and affected;
  and (ii) inthe sharing and testing o f PLWHA support practices by NGOs, CBOs, and
          engage
  the private sector for this vulnerable population. Regional conferences have created a
. "regional consciousness" among PLWAs that they are not alone, and many cross-country
  contacts. These need to be consolidated and strengthened.



                                                 5

The approach inboth instances will be based on a BritishPetroleudnited Nations Institute
for Training and Research (BPAJNITAR) methodology ("AIDS              Competence"). Existing
networks will be strengthened and new ones promoted by i)developing the management
capacity o f the networks and selected lead member organizations in planning, financial
management, resource mobilization and M&E via the training-of trainers, ii)developing
HIV/AIDS learning capacity and transfer o f knowledge between network members. An
intermediary institution(s) will be contracted to: i)provide management training to network
trainers-of-trainees,   ii)train national facilitators in techniques of organization self-
assessment, knowledge capturing and knowledge sharing, iii)assist in piloting knowledge
rooms along the transport corridors, and iv) M&E. Based on agreed criteria, GLIA Member
States have gone through the process o f identifying those organizations which should be
included inthe networking pool.

Component 3: Support to Regional health-sector collaboration (US$3.0 million). National
HIV/AIDS related health-sector information exchange, through which policies and
approaches can be discussed, and in future coordinated by and for key health-sector
stakeholders, will result inbetter use o f scarce human and financial resources. Five areas of
such concentration have been identified: (i)     an inventory o f effective interventions and
sharing o f information, (ii)   review o f protocols, materials and training opportunities for
prevention and treatment, (iii)   information exchange on refugee, IDP, returnee HIV/AIDS
health-related programs, (iv) transport sector HIV/AIDS strategy coordination and piloting of
targeted transport packages along two main regional roads (at sites identified for the network
component intervention), and (v) informationexchange on drugpolicies and procurement.

Component 4:       Management, capacity strengthening, monitoring and evaluation, and
reporting (US$6.0 million). GLIA will require institutional strengthening so that it can
coordinate resources made available from all sources, and coordinate regional HIV/AIDS
approaches with national efforts. This component covers three activities: (i)    administration
and management including support for the core professional staff, the fiduciary management
agent, allocations to GLIA Country Focal Points, and operating expenses for GLIA, (ii)
capacity strengthening and Dolicy discussiodtechnical support, including fiduciary,
management and advocacy training of those involved in GLIA which i s not addressed under
Components 1-3 (such as regional training o f GLIA Country Focal Points and national
teams), and policy discussioddevelopmenthechnical support for other cross-cutting issues
(such as gender considerations in HIV/AIDS mobile population programs) and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation, and reportine, covering those aspects not financed under
Components 1-3.

5. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design

The AbidjadLagos HIV/AIDS Transport Corridor, ARCAN, and Treatment Acceleration
Project (TAP), are the first HIV/AIDS regional projects. Key lessons drawn from them are:
  (a) The institutional framework is key, and needs to be dealt with early in the project
  preparationprocess;
  (b) The secretariat and other elements o f institutional capacity will be weak at the outset,
  and will need strengtheningand funding;
  (c) Agreement on a small secretariat staff which out-sources most activities will be a
  challenge that needs to be tackled early inthe project cycle;
  (d) There is need to regularly explain the relationship and reasons for a regional programin
  lieu o f increases inthe national MAP; and



                                                6

  (e) Regional projects typically take longer than expected because o f greater coordination
  requirements which are time-consuming, and because o f the complex operational and
  political environment inwhich they work.

6. Alternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection

One alternative was to expand national HIV/AIDS programs in the individual countries.
However, national programs do not typically address cross-border issues adequately but
rather concentrate on country-specific concerns. National staff have many tasks and other
priorities which unintentionally result inless attention to cross-border concerns.

Another alternative was the AbidjadLagos HIV/AIDS Transport Corridor model, built
around a transport trunk line. However, the characteristics o f the GLIA region are
fundamentally different, with multiple transport routes and means o f transport (boats as well
as land vehicles). The AbidjadLagos project created a new structure to manage its activities.
However, in the Great Lakes area the countries had already begun a process o f building a
multisector HIV/AIDSinstitution, one which they are interestedinexpanding and prepared to
support.

A third alternative was to only focus on refugees and surrounding areas. This alternative was
considered too restrictive in terms o f the interface between GLIA countries and developing
common approaches inthe region.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

Implementation arrangements are well advanced and include: signing o f the Convention
establishingGLIA and formalizing its institutional structure and responsibilities, describing
GLIA `s mission and strategy; draft Rules o f Procedure for both the Council o f Ministers and
Executive Directors; a draft Headquarters Agreement; a comprehensive Operations Manual,
which covers operational procedures, implementation annexes, draft first year work plans;
progress on establishing monitoring and evaluation system; concrete plans for preparing the
fiduciary system through contracting o f a Fiduciary Management Agent; terms o f reference
and a contracting process for recruitment o f consultants to assist in the identification,
evaluation, and selection o f the core GLIA staff (see MAP Project Readiness Matrix in
Annex 6).

1. Partnershiparrangements

GLIA is based on a strong sense of partnership among GLIA governments, the UN family,
civil society, bilateral and multilateral donors, Non-Governmental-Organizations(NGOs),
Faith-based Organizations (FBOs), the private sector, and training and research institutions
(GLIA Convention Article 8 (3)),         and coordination with national AIDS programs.
Partnerships are already well under way, but these will grow as GLIA'S capacity i s
strengthened and its functions expand.

a) External Partnerships: Envisionedi s a "Partnership Consultative Group" (PCG) composed
of stakeholders. Key early GLIA partners, namely the World Bank and UNAIDS, would be
included in the PCG as well as select representatives o f civil society such as NGOs and
FBOs, the private sector, UNfamily organizations such as WHO, regional organizations and
networks, as well as academic institutions and research institutes. The PCG would be an
advisory body to the Council o f Ministers and assist in resource mobilization, program


                                               7

coordination and assessment; provide technical and policy advice and support; help
incorporate GLIA approaches into their programs and contribute to the GLIA M&E system;
advocate GLIA awareness and actions in their own constituencyhetworks; and other
activities as may be identified as GLIA evolves.

b) Internal Partnerships and Coordination: GLIA Executive Committee members and the
GLIA Country Focal Points will be the links between the regional and national AIDS
programs.     Executive   Committee      members must be         from   the  National AIDS
CommissiodSecretariat and the GLIA Country Focal Point must be a member o f that staff.
A GLIA core professionalwill be responsiblefor liaisingwith all GLIA country focal points.
Distribution o f GLIA M&E reports will contribute to maintaining regular contact and
coordination.

c) UNHCR: UNHCR i s essential in reaching refugee populations and a GLIA-UNHCR
Memorandum o f Understanding will formalize key points o f this long-term cooperative
relationship.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The GLIA Convention specifies that GLIA will operate at politicab'policy and program levels
through a ministerial oversight body, a management decision-making entity, and a small
coordinatiodfacilitation secretariat with linkages to national HIV/AIDS programs. Annual
work plans and programs will determine the kinds o f activities to be carried out. The annual
work plan and programs will contain adequate activity details and a timetable for
implementation and procurement. Annual program reviews (at a minimum), coupled with
flexibility for subsequent year programs, are o f particular importance given that the situation
with refugees and other mobile populations may change quickly with repatriation or new
disruptions, and that AIDS policy and technology are dynamic and may require shifts in
focus. (The Operations Manual, in French and English, details these and other operational
matters.). GLIA countries must: (i)   designate representatives to the Council o f Ministers and
Executive Committee; (ii)appoint its GLIA Country Focal Point in its National AIDS
secretariat to liaise with GLIA; (iii)take GLIA operations into account when planning
national AIDS activities; (iv) advocate GLIA through dissemination o f its recommendations,
reports and materials; (v) facilitate, promote and supervise GLIA activities in their country;
and vi) provide annual contributions as decided by the Council o f Ministers on a timely
basis.

a) Councilof Ministers

Comprised o f the Ministers incharge o f HIV/AIDS inthe GLIA countries or their altemates,
the Council o f Ministers is the oversight body o f GLIA. The CM is the supreme organ o f
GLIA with responsibility for approving and taking all legal engagements in the name of
GLIA including approving the rules o f procedure for the institution. It must approve GLIA
annual programs, budgets, and fiduciary matters, review and approval o f audits, advocacy,
and resource mobilization. Chairmanship o f the Council o f Ministers rotates on a yearly basis
by alphabetical order of the countries (based on the official language o f the country). The
Council meets at least once a year, linking its meetings with regional or international
conferences or events whenever possible.




                                                8

b) Executive Committee (EC)

The Executive Committee i s composed of the Chief Executive o f each GLIA country's AIDS
CommissiodSecretariat. It i s responsible for the programs and performance o f GLIA under
the Council of Ministers. It reviews work plans and budgets and modifications thereto,
reviews financial and activity reports and selects the GLIA core professional staff. It i s
headed by a Chairperson, and Deputy Chairperson, and the chair rotates on an annual basis
following the alphabetical order o fthe countries.

The Executive Committee has two subcommittees, a Management Subcommittee and a
Technical Subcommittee, headed by the EC Chairman and the EC Deputy Chairman,
respectively. Specific mandates o f these subcommittees are defined in the Operations
Manual. Within limits specified in the rules of procedure, unforeseen expenditures in the
periods between Executive Committee meetings will be approved by the Executive
Committee Chairman before payment i s authorized. The Executive Committee Chairman will
be expected to consult with Committee members to the degree feasible, but such consultation
should not impede action.

c) GLIA Secretariat (Secretariat)

The Secretariat serves the mission o f GLIA as determined by the Council o f Ministers, under
the supervision o f the Executive Committee. The Secretariat i s responsible for day-to-day
execution o f GLIA mandated activities, implementation and financial progress reports,
monitoring and evaluation reports, and such other reports as the Council determines. Its
responsibilities are detailed inthe GLIA Convention, the draft GLIA Operations Manual, and
the GLIA rules o f procedure. Led by the Executive Secretary, the Secretariat's core
professional staff o f eight will be responsible for developing plans, programs, inter-country
coordination, and overseeing financial, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation
management. All staff will be based at GLIA headquarters which is inKigali. Some services
will be contracted out, for instance, initially to a Fiduciary Management Agent (FMA) which
will provide accounting, disbursement, financial statements, procurement arrangements and
statements, and financial monitoring reporting under the direction o f GLIA. While overall
coordination of the M&E system i s the responsibility o f the GLIA Secretariat,
implementation o f the GLIA output monitoring system (data collection from implementing
partners, and data capture onto the central database) will be subcontracted to another entity
(FMAor other). All surveillance andoperations research activities will also be subcontracted.

d) GLIA Countrv Focal Points

Each National HIV/AIDS CommissiodSecretariat will appoint its GLIA Country Focal Point
who will coordinate GLIA activities in the country, integrate regional considerations into the
national HIV/AIDS programs, and inform the GLIA Secretariat's Country Focal Point Liaison
Officer (based in the GLIA secretariat) on HIV/AIDS developments in hidher country. Based
on an annual GLIA-approved workplan, the GLIA Country Focal Point will be provided with
funds for eligible activities as described inthe GLIA Operations Manual. The annual workplan
will reflect the needs o f the individual country (e.g. improved administratiodsupervision o f all
or any GLIA component activities, IEC/BCC assistance, environmental and safeguard matters,
national workshops, additional consultancies/technical assistance, training, eligible goods,
travel and operating costs). These GLIA country allocated funds are inaddition to, and separate




                                                 9

from, the activity/component financing under GLIA, national MAPprograms, or other funding
sources.


3. Other ImplementationAspects
a. Modalities for carrying out finance, procurement and disbursement activities, monitoring,
evaluation and reporting, are detailed inAnnexes 3,4, 6, 7 and 8, and the respective sections
of the GLIA Operations Manual (Volume 1, Sections 111-VI). Once recruited, capacity
building, mentorship and training of GLIA core professional staff and national GLIA Focal
Points will be included inconsultancy contracts or specific training, as may be necessary.
b. Considerable work has already beendone bythe partners duringproject preparation.While
the PPF will cover some o f these expenditures, it i s expected that to maintain momentum
before Grant effectiveness, funds will be spent by GLIA and UNHCR for consultancy
services, operating expenses, and equipment. These will be eligible expenditure categories
and a request for retroactive financing i s expected. There will be eligible expenditure
categories for which retroactive financing will be authorized.

4. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomes/results

The GLIA monitoring and evaluation system (GLIA M&E system) i s drawn from
international guidance as captured in the UNAIDS/World Bank National AIDS Councils
WAC) Monitoring and Evaluation (`&I$) Manual and relevant in-country
                                                Operational
experiences. Although the in-country multisectoral HIV/AIDS programs (MAPS)do not seek
to promote their own M&E system but to support the overall in-country national M&E
system, M&E for this subregional MAP cannot be handled exactly inthe same way. This is
due to the fact that:

   (a) There is no "national" or existing GLIA M&E system that needs to be supported; and

   (b) GLIA activities seek to complement and not replicate the national HIV/AIDS efforts
   bythe six member countries.

This project will support and align with the GLIA institutional M&E system, as outlined in
the GLIA Operations Manual, including adoption o f those indicators, data sources and
informationproducts contained therein.

While overall coordination o f the GLIA M&E system will be the responsibility o f the
Executive Secretariat, it is envisaged that implementation o f the GLIA output monitoring
system will be subcontracted to an FMA and other specialized entities. Surveillance and
operations research activities will also be subcontracted.

5. Sustainability

Long-term financial sustainability depends on international assistance. Over the four-year
implementation period, financial resources from the project would be adequate. During the
implementation periodGLIA will actively pursue resources from other sources, includingthe
Global Fund, bilateral donors, foundations, UNHCR and UNAIDS, as well as continued
support from the six GLIA member governments. During the preparatory phase GLIA
received contributions from USAID, DFID, UNAIDS, and UNHCR, coupled with broad




                                               10

 expressions of support from many in the international community. It i s reasonable to expect
 that contributions from external and internalresources will be forthcoming.

 Designed to complement national multisectoral undertakings in prevention, care, treatment
 and mitigation, GLIA is the first subregional IDA project inEast and Central Africa to focus
 primarily on HIV/AIDS, on regional mobile populations, and cooperation among member
 states. GLIA's approach i s fully consistent with national policies and programs will be
 closely linked to the national AIDS structure in each country, and prevailing policies o f the
 Governments, UNAIDS agencies, and other donors. The project i s designed to buildboth the
 institutional infrastructure as well as trust and partnership among the governments,
 communities, NGOs, the private sector, and the international community. If the project is
 successful, GLIA's institutional future shouldbe secure.

 GLIA member governments are committed to support GLIA as reflected in their having
 already signed the Convention, held inaugural sessions o f the Council o f Ministers and the
 Executive Committee. In addition, the Government o f Rwanda provided funds and staff for
 the Executive Secretariat inKigali for over five years, the DRC funded a technical workshop
 involving all GLIA States, and others have hosted the work o f GLIA. GLIA countries are in
 the process o f determining how to equitably address assessed contributions for member
 states, taking into account they are in vastly different economic situations. UNHCR has
 expressed its full support for the project, has already undertaken considerable work inproject
 preparation, and intends to incorporate lessons learnedfrom GLIA into its other refugee camp
 sites and programs. UNAIDS has been a steady GLIA partner and intends to remain actively
 involved.

 By expanding and harmonizing HIV efforts throughout the region, GLIA will augment the
 effectiveness o f national investments in prevention, care, treatment, and mitigation. By
 identifying and encouraging the sharing o f information and promising approaches across
 countries and indifferent operational settings, the likelihood increases that such activities will
 be scaled up and attract additional funding from many sources, including donors and
 technical assistance entities, the governments, and affected communities. It will provide
 operational and policy inputs to national M A P projects, which in turn can apply to their
 programs what i s done and learnedunder this project.

 6. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

 The purpose o f the sectioni s to highlightareas where past experience inother circumstances
 suggest special attentionmay be required, and how the Recipient and Bank intendto assure
 such problems do not arise. Indeed, to date GLIA has performedwell, given its current
 resources.


 Risk                                         Risk                  RiskMitigationMeasure
                                             Rating
1Fiduciary environment of GLIA has not                I Fiduciary ManagementAgent will be hired to help
 beentested andproven                          S       buildGLIA capacityinthe first year andbeyondif
                                                        needed. Stronginternal control procedureswill be
                                                        set up andmaintained includinghiring of an
                                                        Internal Auditor; regular supervisionby Bank
                                                        fiduciary specialists, especially inthe first two

 CooperationonHIVIAIDSmay be                   H      I Emphasison   consensusdecisionmakingand


                                                 11

Risk                                                            RiskMitigationMeasure

affectedby changes inpolitical relations           partnershipinbothtechnical andpolicymatters.
amongGLIA countries                                (While recognizingthat this politicalrisk cannot be
                                                   entirely mitigated, it is important to go forward
                                                   with the project becauseof the GLIA target group
                                                   desperateneeds.)
Uncertainty inrelationsbetween refugee          S  Supportfor refugees, IDP andreturneepopulations
communitiesand surrounding                         will be accompaniedbyparallel efforts in
communitiesmay affect the success of               surroundingcommunitiesandbyworking closely
HIV/AIDS programs                                  with national MAP.
Secretariat difficulty in carryingout full         Contractingout will beusedextensively for
range of GLIA responsibilitiesand                  components (refugees andnetworking), for M&E
functions                                          andresearch; Other donorswill also supportthe
                                                   GLIASecretariat; GLIA countrieswill select staff
                                                   basedonmerit.
NationalAIDS program supportfor                    Fundsprovided to nationalfocal points for
regional efforts maybe insufficient,               capacitybuildingandliaison activities should
and/or nationalAIDS secretariats do not            enhance the sense ofnational ownership;
fully understandGLIAhationalprogram                representationby all GLIA membercountriesin
benefits                                           the Council ofMinisters and GLIA Executive
                                                   Committeeshouldreinforce synergywith national
                                                   efforts.


          H=High               S = Substantial    M=Moderate                N=Lowtnegligible



3. Grant conditions and covenants

Conditions for Grant Effectiveness:
a) A signed Headquarters Agreement relating to GLIA privileges and immunities;
b) Council ofMinisters adoption o f the Operations Manual;
c) Appointment o f the GLIA Executive Secretary, Director of Finance and Administration,
Finance Officer, Technical and Planning Director, and M&ECoordinator;
d) Selectiono fthe FMA;
e) Establishment o f a financial and procurement management system; and
f) TORSdevelopedfor the selection of anindependent auditor.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic and financial analyses

Economic analysis on HIVIAIDS has been carried out under the umbrella Multi-Country
HIV/AIDSProgram for the Afi-ica Region(Report No. 20727 AFR, paragraphs 76078). The
analysis includes an overall assessment o f the impact o f HIV/AIDS on economic
development and poverty and shows that a reduction in AIDS-related deaths would increase
the growtho f GDP.

The project will be largely implemented through contracts with UNHCR, various national
and regional networks, health sector policy and program professionals, and consultancies (the
latter mainly for developing regional cooperation and harmonized policy approaches).
Annual plans and contracts with UNHCR, subactivities with networks, health sector policy
programs, and activities of consultants will be reviewed and approved according to the


                                                12

procedures and criteria expressed in Annex 6 (Implementation Arrangements), and the
Operations Manual. These procedures and criteria will ensure that approved proposals are
cost-effective and provide the benefits expected from the project.

2. Technical

The project has incorporatedthe best internationally acceptedpractices for HIV/AIDS
responses as set forth inUNAIDSandUNHCR guidance on HIV/AIDS, inM A P guidelines
o f the World Bank's Africa Region, and inMAPSineach o f the GLIA countries. These
practices have been tailored to the Great Lakes Region context, the project design, and the
M&Esystem.

3. Fiduciary

Financial Management:

a. Financial management arrangements are summarized inAnnex 7 and detailed inthe GLIA
Operations Manual. In view of the fact that GLIA i s a body corporate in its early stage o f
creation, it will have a life beyond the GLIA Support Project, and will therefore require a
sustainable and sound fiduciary system. To this end, financial management capacity will
initially be established in GLIA by recruiting a qualified Finance and Administration
Director, Finance Officer, and subsequently additional accounting staff. During the initial
phase a Fiduciary Management Agent (FMA) will be contracted for one year, to perform
such tasks, which will also include the procurement function. The FMA will work closely
with GLIA'SDirector o f Finance and Administration, Finance Officer and the Procurement
Officer, and help to enhance and solidify their capacity through on the job training. It i s
envisaged that the services o f the FMA will be phased out when the fiduciary management
capacity inGLIA is assessed and found to be satisfactory to GLIA and IDA at the end o f the
first project year. At country level, project funds expended ineach o f the six GLIA countries
by the Country Focal Points will be managed, controlled and accounted for in accordance
with the existing MAP procedures in the respective countries. These expenditures will be
based on work plan and cost estimates for GLIA activities within the country. GLIA i s
expected to use an integrated financial management information system with capability for
financial planning and budgeting, disbursement o f funds, accounting, and financial reporting.
The system will also include contract data management ability for procurement and will also
draw linkages to the M&E system. The system will be designed and installed during the
project preparation phase with the help o f a consultant, and financed from the PPF. The FMA
will facilitate timely preparation o f reliable and correct periodic financial statements and
other financial reports for assisting the management in decision making as well as for other
parties that may have an interest in the activities o f GLIA and the GLIA Country Focal
Points. GLIA will disburse on the basis o f periodic Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
from the beginning in view o f the skills mix and competence level expected from the FMA
after a brief (one week) familiarization seminar on the FMR guidelines by the task team. The
internal control environment in the system will also be complemented by recruitment o f an
Internal Auditor as part o f the core professional staff o f GLIA. The annual audit will
comprise a single audit report covering all aspects o f the project, including the Special
Account audit and Statements of Expenditures (SOE), if any, which will be carried out by an
independent external auditor,       selected through a competitive process, soon after
effectiveness. The cost o f the audit will be financed from the project.




                                                 13

b. Justification for 100% Bank Financing of the GLIA Support Project: AIDS is a regional
emergency and o f direct bearing to the social development o f the GLIA countries. GLIA i s a
capacity buildingeffort which would benefit all the member countries inthe sub-region. The
DRC, which is a GLIA country, was recently granted 100% IDA financing for HIV/AIDS
expenditures under its M A P project. Standard Disbursement Percentage (SDP) or Country
Expenditure Parameter (CEP) for any o f the member countries in this circumstance i s not
appropriate.

c. Tax Exemption: The GLIA Convention makes reference to tax exoneration. GLIA, as an
institution, will negotiate for an agreement which will provide for tax exemption o f its
activities on behalf o f all members.

d. UNHCR Single Source and Direct Disbursement: Given the magnitude of UNHCR
activities and UNHCRstatus and experience, it is proposed that direct payments be made to
it under its long-term Management Contract with GLIA (approved by the GLIA Executive
Committee), on a semi-annual basis. (UNHCR i s currently carrying out substantial World
Bank-managed programs, and has done so in the past). Under this Management Contract,
GLIA will request IDA resources by submitting a withdrawal application, to disburse grant
proceeds directly to UNHCR. GLIA and IDA will request the right to examine supporting
information for project activities financed from the grant proceeds if circumstance so
demand.

Procurement:

Procurement arrangements are also detailed in the GLIA Operations Manual. As with the
case o f financial management, GLIA will recruit a Procurement Officer who reports to the
Finance and Administration Director. Duringthe initialphase a Fiduciary Management Agent
(FMA) will be contracted to handle procurement tasks. World Bank guidelines will be used
until GLIA establishes its own procurement rules and procedures. GLIA'S Executive
Secretary and Executive Committee (for larger procurement) have responsibility for deciding
what will be procured and which bids will be approved. The Council of Ministers will
approve an annual plan that includes the procurement plan, with the Secretariat making
operational procurement decisions without need o f further Council o f Ministers' approval. A
tender committee comprising three to five persons will be formed for actions on larger
procurements. With regard to UNHCR, its procurement procedures will apply to GLIA
funding with IDA, through GLIA requesting review o f procurement activity warranting
closer examination. The procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 8 and detailed
inthe SectionIVofthe GLIAOperations Manual.

4. Social




                                              14

GLIA Operations Manual procedures are designed to ensure adequate targeting of project
activities. GLIA is expected to have positive social effects for particular HIV/AIDS
vulnerable groups (refugees, displaced persons, retumees, PLWHA). Project support to
improve HIVAIDS prevention, care, treatment, and mitigationapproaches inwidely scattered
areas will have a positive influence on social development among underserved target
populations in virtually all GLIA countries. GLIA will contribute to the destigmatization o f
HIV positive people, provide greater empowerment, inclusion, and security for vulnerable
groups, and reduce gender inequities and discrimination.

5. Environment

While the programs to be funded are expected to have significant positive impacts on the
population inProject areas, these programs may also incur negative environmental and social
impacts requiring mitigation. Environmental impacts under the Project (soil erosion, soil and
water pollution, air pollution, loss o f vegetation) will mainly result from unsafe medical
waste management and the construction and rehabilitation o f facilities and a concomitant
increase in solid and liquid wastes. In this context, social impacts would be due to land
acquisition, transmission o f HIV/AIDS through exposure to medical waste, as well as dust,
noise and traffic accidents during construction and rehabilitation activities. To address
potential environmental and social impacts at an early stage, the Project has prepared an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Policy Framework for
Compensation (PFC). The PFC outlines the principles and procedures to be followed in the
event that land acquisition is required. The ESMF constitutes an environmental and social
screening process (steps 1-7) which will enable project implementers to identify, assess and
mitigate potential environmental and social impacts at the planning stage o f their activities,
thereby contributing to the protection of people's health from environmental risks and
pollution. The ESMF also includes an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the
Project, outlining the institutional responsibilities for mitigation, monitoring, capacity
building, time horizons and related cost estimates. The EMP and relevant sections o f the
ESMFandthe PFC willbe includedinthe Operations Manual.

6. Safeguard policies

The Project has triggered OP 4.01' Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary
Resettlement. The safeguard screening category i s S2; and the environmental screening
category is B. Key safeguard policy issues raised by the Project are medical waste
management at health care facilities and impacts due to construction and rehabilitation of
facilities, including health care facilities. Since the locations and impacts o f future GLIA
activities are not known at this time, the Project has prepared an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Policy Framework for Compensation (PFC). Both
documents have been disclosed through the GLIA Secretariat on September 28, 2004 and at
the Bank's Infoshop on October 4,2004.

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                          Yes              N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                            Ex 1              [I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                         [I              [x 1
PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                              [I              [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                [I              [x1
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                [x 1
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                 E l             [x
                                                                                       [I1


                                                15

Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                [I               [x 1
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         11               [x 1
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)
                                                                    [I
                                                                    [I               [x 1
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                  [x 1


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

Policy Exceptions
No policy exceptions are required.

Readiness for Implementation
The procurement documents for the first eighteen months activities are ready for the start of
project implementation.

Compliance with BankPolicies
This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.




                                             16

                   Annex 1:CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
          AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeon HIV/AIDS(GLIA) Support Project

Countries in the Great Lakes Region are particularly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
With already high levels o f HIV infection in the early 1990~the situation has deteriorated
                                                                    ~
further, and will probably continue to do so due to the displacement o f populations, social
disruption, and the general difficult socio-economic context.       More than six (6) million
people are living with HIV/AIDS and more than three (3) million children have been
orphaned or made vulnerable by HIV/AIDS. There are, o f course, significant differences
between countries and while it i s presumed the situation is worsening in most countries,
Uganda i s the exception. Access to most basic care or treatment is limited. The spread of
tuberculosis in the region i s o f growing concern. The levels o f mortality are among the
highest o f African countries, with that o f DRC being among the worst inthe world, at 1,837
per 100,000. Comprehensive prevalence assessments have not been done for many o f the
vulnerable populations in the region, so that knowledge about mobile population prevalence
rates is incomplete.

Natural and political disasters have displaced large numbers o f people, with commensurate
impact on local economies, income, loss o f health, and other basic services. The growing
number o f infected and affected people constitutes a significant burden on the Great Lakes
economies, with prevalence inproductive age groups on the rise. These economies are among
the poorest, with an average GDP inGLIA countries o f $208. Traditional copingmechanisms
o f families and communities are already overburdened.

Although difficult to precisely measure the HIV/AIDS situation, it is clear it has had
considerable impact inthe Great Lakes countries. The growing number o f orphans constitutes
a significant burden particularly for poor communities. Traditional networks o f solidarity and
coping mechanisms in extended families and communities will not absorb the rapidly
increasing number o f orphans and vulnerable children. Life expectancy has been declining
and prevalence among the most productive age groups o f the society is on the rise. Loss o f
human resources significantly affects key sectors, including agriculture, industry, education,
and vocational training. Lack o f understanding o f the impact o f the epidemic; high mobility
o f populations and vulnerability o f women and poverty are all factors that drive the epidemic
in the region. Armed conflicts engendering massive movement of population in the Great
Lakes countries create conditions that exacerbate the epidemic.

The GLIA Support Project is a separate regional grant investment which reinforces Bank
financing in HIV/AIDS and in the GLIA countries Each GLIA country              has qualified for,
and i s implementing a national M A P program. They therefore have recognized the
importance of addressing HIVAIDS, have developed a national strategy for doing so, have a
highlevelpolicy and coordinating mechanism, and are committed to usingresources through
a variety o f implementation partners. Set forth below i s a brief recapitulation o f the situation
in each GLIA country, reflecting the estimated level of prevalence, and the trends to the
extent known (See Annex 2 for a summary o f the MAP, Global Fund for AIDS, TB and
Malaria, andUNAIDS projects).




                                               17

     Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
         AFRICA: GreatLakes Initiativeon HIV/AIDS (GLIA)SupportProject


Burundi Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project ($29.1 million;
P071371)
Project supports the national program as set forth inits Action Plan for the Struggle Against
HIVIAIDS (2002-2006) through actions involving line ministries, civil society, private
enterprises,  labor    unions,  NGOs. Components         are:  strengthening public     sector
responsiveness; increasing civil society response; supporting orphans; strengthening public
and private agency capacity in formulating and implementing an epidemic control approach;
andproject and nationalAIDS program coordination.


   0    Project Status Report dated 6/03/2004
    0   IPRating: S
    0   DO Rating: S

DemocraticRepublicofthe Congo Multi-SectoralHIV/AIDS Project($102.0 million;
PO82516)
Project i s a multi-sectoral operation designed to mobilize a wide range o f actors in various
spheres o f society. It provides technical capacity and financing for the preparation and
implementation o f project proposals by public sector entities, private and publio enterprises,
NGOs and faith-based organizations, people living with HIVIAIDS, and community-based
organizations.


   0    Project Status Report dated 5/23/2004
   0    IP Rating: S
   0    D O Rating: S

KenyaAIDS Disaster ResponseProject ($50.0 million;P070920)
Project is designed to facilitate the Government's expanded and intensified response to the
HIVIAIDS epidemic. It supports prevention and advocacy; treatment and support o f the
continuum of care for the infected and affected; management and coordination; mitigation of
the socio-economic impacts o f HIVIAIDS on society; and research, monitoring and
evaluation.


   0    Project Status Report dated 5/28/2004
   0    IP Rating: U
   0    DORating: S

RwandaMulti-sectoralHIV/AIDS Project($30.5 million; P071274)
Through a multi-sectoral approach it supports activities undertaken by public, private
organizations and civil society. The project will mainstream HIVIAIDS activities into line
ministries and other public sector institutions to bring about behavioral change. Health care
will strengthen the diagnosis, care and treatment.


   0    Project Status Report dated 6/08/2004


                                              18

    0   IPRating: S
    0   DO Rating: S

TanzaniaMulti-SectoralAIDS Project($70.0 million; P071014)
The Project finances national programs on HIV/AIDS both for the Mainland and Zanzibar
governments, through multi-sectoral actions involving government, non-government, civil
society and community organizations.      Components are to: mobilize communities; fund
public sector programs for prevention, care and mitigation, including the health and other
sectors; support the Mainlandand Zanzibar coordinating and facilitating entities.


    0   Project Status Report dated 3/25/2004
    0   IP Rating: S
    0   DO Rating: S

 UgandaHIV/AIDS ControlProject($47.5 million; P072482)
 Supports the National Strategic Framework which aims at reducing the spread o f HIV
 infection, mitigate the health and socio-economic impact o f HIV/AIDS at individual,
 household and community levels, and strengthen the national capacity to respond to the
 epidemic. Components support: HIV control activities; district initiatives by government
 and/or the private sector; community and civil society-led HIV control initiatives.


    0   Project Status Report dated 5/28/2004
    0   IPRating: S
    0   DORating: S




                                             19

                                     Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                   AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeonHIV/AIDS (GLIA) SupportProject

                                                      ResultsFramework

                 PDO                               OUTCOME        INDICATORS                        Use of OutcomeInformation


    Establishment ofHIVIAIDS             REFUGEES:                                            Baseline information will be collected at
    prevention, care, treatment and          HIV prevalenceinrefugeesites and                 the start of the project, and outcome
    mitigation programs for mobile and       surroundingpopulations,andreturneesites:         indicator information at the end of the
    vulnerable groups suchas refugees,       There is areductioninHIVprevalenceinthe          project.
    transport sector workers, and highly     refugeepopulations andsurrounding
    affected'infected populations in         communities identifiedby GLIA                    For this reason, outcome indicator data
    eacho fthe GLIA member                   Changedbehaviorinrefugeesites and                will be utilized to determine the overall
    countries, and                           surroundingpopulations:There is anincrease       impact of the GLIA on the achievement
    Enhanceprospects for coordinated         inthe numberofyouth (aged 15-24) inthe           of the GLIA'S mission statement.
    approachesfor HIVIAIDS                   target populations reporting the use of a
    prevention, care, treatment and          condomduring sexual intercoursewith a non-
    mitigation among the GLIA                regular sexualpartner (adaptedUNGASS
    member states.                           indicator)
                                             Increaseinknowledgeinrefugeesites and
                                             surroundingpopulations:Thereis anincrease
                                             inthenumberofrespondents 15-24years of
                                             age withinthe targetpopulation who both
                                             correctly identify ways o fpreventing the sexual
                                             transmission of HIVand who reject major
                                             misconceptions about HIVtransmission or
                                             prevention(adapted UNGASSindicator)
                                             Improvedsocial conditionswithinrefugee
                                             andsurroundingpopulations:Thereis an
                                             increaseinthe social and gender conditions
                                             within the target populations' inrefugeesites
                                             and surrounding populations
                                                            --
                                         NETWORKS                ~




                                          m  Better networking amongselectedGLIA
                                             networkorganizations:Networks havebeen
                                             strengthenedand there is improved
                                             management and AIDS learningcapacities of
                                             networks and member organizations
                                         HEALTH SERVICES
                                             Improvedhealthservices to mobile
                                             populations:There is increasedknowledge
                                             transfer between GLIA countries and uptake o f
                                             healthservicesby mobile populations
         IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicatorsfor EachComponent                      Use of ResultsMonitoring
         One per Component
ComponentOne:                            ComponentOne:                                        ComponentOne:
The 9 refugeesites, 9 surrounding        Prevention:                                          The indicator scores that are generated
populations and 1retumeesite have          @ 100%of sites have uninterrupted and sufficient   will be usedto informannualplanning
beenprovided with increasedaccess to         supplies o fmale condoms over the previous 6     and refinement o f the annual work plans
functioning and appropriateHIVIAIDS          monthperiod                                      for this component.
prevention, careand treatmentservices      m 100% o fsites have HIVpostersandbillboards
                                             inappropriatelanguage                            The resultswill also be usedto initiate
                                             >75% have functioning peer educator              discussions with the host countries andto
                                             programs                                         ensurebetter linkagesbetween activities
                                             100% sites has accessto functioning VCT          for refugee site residents (managed by
                                             services                                         UNHCR, implementedby UNHCR
                                          0  100%of refugee, surroundingandretumee            implementation partners) andresidents
                                             sites have access to functioning PMTCT           within surrounding communities
                                             programs                                         (managed andimplementedby host


         Please note that the Social and Gender assessment that is currently being carried out will provide detailed
        information for the correct formulation of this indicator


                                                                  20

                                           Treatment                                             country)
                                                100% o fhealth workers who treat STIs in
                                               health clinics have been trained insyndromic
                                               management
                                                100% o fhealthworkers who treat common
                                               opportunistic infections (Ob) inhealth clinics
                                               have been trained
                                           Care:
                                                >75% o f sites have community health workers
                                               who havebeen trained inand are actively
                                               providing home-based care
ComponentTwo:                              ComponentTwo :                                        Component Two:
Networks (transport sector and PLWHA)      (AN of this data is tobe disaggregatedby thetype      The results will be used to assess: (a)
inthe GreatLakes Region (GLR) have         of network TransportSector network or PLWHA
                                                      -                                          whether the kindof support and capacity
beenidentified, strengthenedand            organization)                                         buildingefforts aimed at these networks,
supportedina sustainable way               1   Each identified network have adoptedthe           are yielding an appropriate response; b)
                                               strategy and developed an action plan for         use enhanced management capacity to
Networks (transport sector and PLWHA)          support and strengthening                         more efficient planning, implementation
inthe GLRhave improved their own               Each identified network has carried out an        and M&E; c) to determine the success o f
HIVprevention, care and treatment              annual AIDS Self assessment                       the self-assessment; d) to define
activities.                               .    % o f organizations that meet the AIDS Self       subsequent annual work plans; and e) to
                                               Assessment target                                 improve the quality o f services provided
                                               Number o f formal sub regional meetings           bythe networks andmember

                                          .    betweennetworks ofthe 6 countries to              organizations.
                                               exchange information, good practices and
                                               experiences
                                               Number o f management trainings sessions per
                                               country organized for member organizations

ComponentThree:                           ComponentThree:                                        Component Three:
There is increased synchronization and    .   Number o f formal health sector interaction        Use generated information and effective
harmonization o f health policies         ..   meetings to exchange information, country         practices produced: a) to improve the
                                               experiences and effective practicesbetween the    approaches and practices inthe GLIA
                                               GLIA member states.                               countries; and b) to advocate for policy,
                                              Number o fprotocols harmonized and adopted         strategy, and resources improvement at
                                              Number o f formal interaction between GLIA         national level.
                                               member states to exchange o f information o n

                                          ..   HIVIAIDS prevention, care and treatment for       Use generated information, experiences
                                               refugees, IDPs, retumees, and surrounding         and effective practices related to the
                                               communities                                       Transport Sector (TS) to advocate for
                                              A strategy with adaptedhealth services for TS      policy, strategy and resources
                                               workers has been adoptedthrough consensus         improvement.    `
                                               duringa formal meeting
                                              Number o fhealth sites with adapted services to
                                               improve accessibility o f transport sector
                                               workers inselected sites
ComponentFour:                            ComponentFour:                                         Component Four:
The GLIA Convention has been                   The GLIA has a functioning M&Esystem              The results will be usedto assess the
operationalizedby the GLIA secretariat,        where data flows to a central level, is captured, health o fthe GLIA's management
who is able to plan, implement, monitor        analyzed and disseminated to stakeholders         structure, and the ability ofthe GLIA's
and evaluate activities that will lead to      The GLIA Secretariat has appointed all 8 core     management structure to implement
the achievement o f the GLIA mission           staff members                                     GLIA and ensure proper corporate
                                                                                                 governance.




                                                                    21

           2
           (3
 DD
 El
.CI
 h
 0
.I
Y
sa"
 E


 m
 m
 a
 h
eh           n
 B9
c,
 m

       2     d                 I P
             z    2a
dE           P            1 2
             2    2     P
                        z        z -xB5
                                      c)




       d
       z     s    I                  .-0
                                      v)

T




     hl
     m

                                    I

                                   $
                                   f


                                   d
                                   P




               +



-r-            7              I

t-     0      W


                s )
                 R -
               1:
       0     W        0    0      0

  / b
O  A                  0      0    N
I    - 0                    -

0 / $          +
t        iD            N     0 -  0




t
       0      0        0   0 0    0

             I
                           38e,
                             0



                             ili
                             e,
                           c .-bo
                             C
                          -oa m
                              m

                             >
                             e,
                           40*




 I    l~               ..
                      eVY


Q -
                       2
        -   N          2
                      TI
                       !i
          2            B
                     c 3


            m    v) -sB9

                      .e


                     e
                     B0


                      c
                      0

                      YVY
                       m
                       e,

          0            2iV

                           Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
        AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeon HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project


ProjectComponents

The project will address four key areas:

       Support to selected refugee camps and affected areas surrounding the camps,
       internally displacedpeople (IDPs), and returnees;
       Support to HIV/AIDS-related civil-society networks and organizations, the transport
       sector and people living with HIV/AIDS;
       Support for prevention, care, treatment and mitigationpolicies andapproaches, agreed
       to by GLIA health sector stakeholders;
       Program management, capacity strengthening and technical support, M&E,
       informationsharing, and reporting needed incarrying out the GLIA mission.

Descriptionof ProjectComponents

Component 1:HIV/AIDS support to refugees, affected areas surrounding the refugee
communities, internally displacedpeople, returnees (US$S.Omillion).

The purpose o f the component is to improve HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment in
refugee camps, surrounding affected areas, and among returnees/IDPs ina limited number o f
locations (The expectation is that replication in other areas will take place over time).
Dependingon circumstance, assistance can include a full range o f support for HIV/AIDS
prevention, care, and treatment, or a lesser package. Internally displaced people and people
who have returned from refugee camps constitute part o f the target population.

Catchment areas (1-2) in each GLIA country were identifiedjointly by the governments and
UNHCR,basedonanagreedGLIA site-selectioncriteria as follows:
    a. For refugee sites:
        0   GLIA country of origin o fthe beneficiary populations, recognizing that sites may
            have significant numbers o f refugees from outside
        0   Beneficiary populations should be in rural areas, preferably near GLIA country
            borders
        0   Sites with large number o f refugees, to maximizebenefits
        0   Different implementing partners should be chosen within and between countries
            whenever possible for comparison purposes
        0   Populations with large numbers o f vulnerable groups (highproportion o f women
            and children, single headed-households, HIV positive preferable).

    b. For surrounding areas:
        0   Time by foot to:
                o Commonmarket from refugee site and surroundingpopulation
                o Surroundingpopulation site to refugee site
        0   Population size (>15,000)
        0   Proximity o f surrounding population sites to each other
        0   Riskfactors (e.g., situatedalong transport route, mining)




                                              26

         0   ExistingHIV services/potential benefits from GLIA
         0   Existence o f sentinel surveillance sites
         0   Maximum 2 surrounding population sites per refugee site

     c. For returnee sites:
              0   Population size >10,000 returnees expected
              0   Riskfactors (e.g. situated along transport route, mining)
              0   ExistingHIV services and infrastructure/potential benefits from GLIA
              0   Existence of sentinel surveillance sites

UNHCR currently operates HIV/AIDSprograms inmany refugee sites inAfrica, principally
through its Implementing Partners who enter into a tripartite agreement with the Government
and UNHCR for specific sectoral activities. Such programs can be scaled up, and new ones
developed with GLIA support. Government engagement in HIV/AIDS programs in rural
areas where the target groups are found, varies from country-to-country. UNHCR will be
responsible for programs inthe refugee camps, while inthe affected areas, IDPs, and returnee
programs will be administered by the national AIDS secretariats within the national
HIV/AIDS frameworks, using the national M A P approach, or if requested, by UNHCR. A
Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) and Management Contract between UNHCR and
GLIA, to be agreed to by the GLIA Council of Ministers and UNHCR Headquarters, will
provide the basis for implementing programs in the catchment areas. The outputs will be:
HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment and mitigation activities in selected sites, improved
knowledge among target populations about HIV/AIDS and related opportunistic infections,
and measures to fight against them, as well as declining infection rates. The outputs will be
attained by providing UNHCR and national AIDS programs with funds to finance a share o f
site specific HIV/AIDS sub-activities. GLIA Country Focal Points have and will work
closely with UNHCR, and inparticular the two UNHCR Regional Coordinators inthe region,
and UNHCR national representatives. They have already done so indeveloping and agreeing
on specific sites and linkages betweenprograms. GLIA will enter into a long term (four year)
contract with UNHCR. Program activities will be annually reviewed and the next year's
program approved. IDA will be requested to provide its no-objection for each annual
workplan (See Annex 6, ImplementationArrangements).

UNHCR services will be based on annual plans that contain individual camp-site subplans
and, in cases where the national AIDS secretariat has so requested, subactivities for areas
surrounding the camps and/or for returnee sites. Situation analyses and first-year Action
Plans were reviewed during Project preparation. Action Plans for future sites will be
reviewed in a similar manner when a site or target group is identified for funding the first
time. For sites that complete the first-year Action Plan sub-activities and have implemented
them satisfactorily, the review process will be more limited. Annual plans will take into
consideration gender sensitivity, incorporating youth into programs, funding for at-risk
groups, and other objectives o f the GLIA. Annual plans will be submitted to the World Bank
for no-objection on a consolidated basis. Program aspects will be regularly monitored while
biologicaVlinked surveillance surveys will be done twice during the project along with
sentinel surveys.

Component 2: Support to HIV/AIDS related networks (US$3.0 million)).

The basic premise is that networks o f different types represent an important aspect of a
subregional HIV/AIDSstrategy.




                                               27

    ... GLIA will begin with support to a limited number of networks, each buildingon a
         system o f self assessmentto define gaps andrelevant activities to be supported.
        As experience is gained, GLIA will widen its coverage o f existing network partners
        and engage with new priority networks.
        For GLIA to provide support there must be a demonstrable linkage to ultimate
    .   benefits for the subregion, and that its activities do not substitute, compete, or replace
        national efforts.
        The transport sector and PLWHA are two o f the highpriority groups to be addressed.

Regarding the transport sector the focus would be on two principal transmission corridors,
namely (i)Mombasa-Nairobi-Kampala-Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukava-Goma, and (ii)Dar es
Salaam-Dodoma-Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukavu-Goma.A situation analysis has been done o f
these corridors and GLIA has undertaken pilot programs ("Safari Safi"). The two corridor
situation analyses will be updated. Further, because o f the importance o f lake transport in
future, this will be considered. Regarding PLWHA, various organizations such as the
Community Health and InformationNetwork (CHAIN) have organized regional conferences
and contacts bitween PLWHA and those organizations which have shown promise and have
been identified will be asked to participate. Inclusion will involve both pre-identification o f
possible organizations (the supply), and an expressed desire by such organizations to
participate (demand).

There are few subregional networks working in HIV/AIDS with well-defined programs
delivering relevant services to their members or clients. Selection o f organizations i s done in
collaboration with the GLIA Country Focal Points and national AIDS programs, choosing
from those which are directly involved in HIV/AIDS and the transport sector or PLWHA, as
well as subregional networks or national networks which demonstrate/express strong interest,
commitment, and capacity indealing with those groups which may be infected or affected.

GLIA will seek to: (i)      enhance the management capacity of networks/network member
organizations to carry out planning, financial management, resource mobilization and M&E;
(ii)develop learningcapacityandtheenvironmentto shareknowledge; and(iii)                   transfer
knowledge among network members. Phase 1 will create ownership through consensus
workshops on operational strategies among transport and PLWHA groups identified by the
supply/demand process undertaken in each o f the GLIA countries; Phase 2 will draw from
these organizations and train: (i)   a pool o f trainers-of-trainers in how to upgrade network
management; and (ii)     a separate set o f facilitators intechniques for organizations/networks to
learn from self-assessment, knowledge sharing and knowledge transfer (30 with 5 from each
GLIA country); Phase 3 will involve those trained applying their skills in organizational
settings, undertaking "self assessments", and the establishment o f "knowledge rooms" at
selected long-haul transport locations (3 per country during the first project year, linked to
transport worker health services); Phase 4 will involve "matchmaking opportunities" for
cross-fertilization, and documenting experiences; and Phase 5 will involve refresher training,
dissemination o f experiences and intensive evaluation o f the process.

The intention is to use the methodology based on knowledge management developed by
BP/UNITAR known as the "AIDS Competence Programme". Two experienced intermediary
institutions will conduct the training, provide advice and support, and monitor information.
An intermediary institution will be contracted to train networks/network organizations in
management skills. An intermediary institution will provide services to develop learning
capacities inHIV/AIDS related matters, the basic approachbeing self-assessment by member




                                                   28

organizations in order to prepare local action plans (Terms of reference have been prepared
for both intermediary institution tasks). "Knowledge Rooms" (one room in an appropriate
facility with a local moderator) will be administered by NGOs or other organization selected
inaccordance with national MAP procedures. The desired results will be to create networks
which acknowledge the realities of HIV and AIDS, act from strengths to build capacity to
respond, and reduce vulnerability and risks.

More specifically key functions to be addressed are: (a) subregional network information
sharing o f good practices, regular exchanges between GLIA country organizations, related
operations     research   and    advocacy;     (b)   facilitation o f  HIV/AIDS       network
creationhtrengthening in priority areas o f concern; (c) capacity development for such
networks, (d) buildingon this capacity development with pilot demonstration activities; and
(e) monitoring and evaluation o f network programs (specific M&E activities will be
embedded in this subcomponent, but more comprehensive M&E aspects are under
Component 4).

Component 3: Support for HealthSector Collaboration(US$3.0 million).

The objectives o f this Component are to:

        Expand formal health sector interaction among GLIA countries interms o f
        informationexchange, country experiences and effective practices;
        Explorepossibilities for HIV/AIDSrelatedprotocol harmonization among the GLIA
        countries and achieve the bestpossible degree o f harmonization on agreed topics;
        Improve GLIA country sharing o f HIV/AIDSprograms and approaches for refugees,
        returnees/IDPs, and surrounding area communities (building on the efforts under
        Component 1);
        Adopt a strategy designed for improved HIV/AIDS services directed at long-haul
        transport workers, and test such improved service provisioninselected sites;
        Dialogue on drug-relatedmatters with a view to exchange o f policies, protocols,
        supplymanagement systems.

Sub regional health-sector collaboration through which common approaches are developed
by and for key health-sector stakeholders (public health policy and technical specialists,
doctors, nurses, health assistants, community health workers, health program implementers,
pharmacists, laboratory technicians, and drug manufacturers and distributors). This i s a
means to make better use o f scarce human and financial resources, to address prevention,
better care, and treatment inthe Great Lakes Region. Technical assistance, workshops, inter-
regional coordination meetings and seminars, training, study tours, are the main kinds o f
activities envisioned for financing. Based on the GLIA mission statement and its strategic
orientations, recommendations discussed and agreed to during GLIA technical meetings and
consultations, the work o f a consultant who consolidated GLIA country suggestions,
culminating ina sub-regional health sector workshop (see Operations Manual Volume 3), the
following five areas are proposed for collaboration among the GLIA countries in the health
sector:

    Sharing country experiences, responses and lessons learned (activities: selection o f
    specific topics, presentation o f experiences, study tours, annual sub-regional meetings,
    information to be archived electronically in the GLIA website and in the GLIA
    InformationCenter).




                                              29

    Harmonization o f protocols (activities: review of existing protocols on selected topics,
    identification o f training gaps and opportunities, preparation o f annual workplans, and
    discussiodadoption by GLIA country health specialists).
    Information exchange on refugee, returnee, and surrounding area communities
    prevention, care, treatment and mitigation; (activities: synthesis o f data collected under
    Component #1,subregional meeting for information and experience exchange, archiving
    inthe GLIA InformationCentre anddisseminationat nationallevel).
    Transport sector common strategies and selected enhanced health service delivery for
    long-haul truckers along two main roads (activities: based on a situational analysis,
    inventory o f health services along mainroad axes for long-haul transporter, adoption o f a
    regional strategy, identification o f preferred locations for HIV/AIDS health services
    improvement, improvement o f services for such long-haul workers inselected sites).
    Information exchange on drug policies, pricing, procurement and legislation; (activities:
    informationexchange on aspects o f drugprovision, prices, supply management, including
    storage, distribution, and monitoring systems as well as other drug-related policies with
    potential for future collaboration).

This component is squarely directed at the health-sector. Its products must ultimately be
integrated into national health policies and actions, or conversely, the regional approachmust
reflect the approaches o f the national constituencies. Ministries o f Health will be the GLIA
lead partners for this component. Finally, consistent with the GLIA mission statement and
policy, the aim of this component i s to respond to subregional needs and not to fill resource
gaps innational programs.


Component 4: Program Management and Policy and Capacity Development (US$6.0
million)
This component will support all GLIA activities. Component elements can be grouped into
three broad categories:


0   Administration and management
0   Capacity strengthening and technical support
0   Monitoring and evaluation, informationand reporting.

Administration and Management:
Expenses eligible for project financing under this sub-component include investment and
operational costs related to the formal Organs o f GLIA, namely the Council o f Ministers,
Executive Committee, and Secretariat. Major expenditures are for the eight core professional
staff, component coordinating consultants, a Fiduciary Management Agent (FMA), and
operating costs needed for the functioning o f the Secretariat and the GLIA Country Focal
Points.


GLIA Country Focal Points represent a special feature of GLIA, inasmuch as they are
permanent staff o f the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat/ Commission (NAC/NAS),              able to
accesdutilize the national AIDS program capabilities to support GLIA advocacy, policy and
program formulation, program implementation, financial and procurement activities, and
monitoring of results. Each GLIA Country Focal Point will be provided an equal amount o f
funds to fulfill responsibilities for eligible categories o f expenses which we treat as "sub-
activities". (Initially $80,000 will be allocated in the first project year to allow for one-time




                                               30

equipment procurement, and thereafter $40,000 annually. Such equipment will be procured by
IAPSO and delivered in the individual countries). These funds will be utilized based on an
annual GLIA-approved workplan, with such plans reflecting the particular needs o f the
individual country. Plans could contain elements for improved administratiordsupervision,
equipment to support the Focal Point infulfilling her or his GLIA responsibilities, for all or any
GLIA component activities. IEC material development, environmental matters, national
workshops, additional consultancies/technical assistance, training, eligible goods, travel and
operating costs are examples o f eligible expenditures. These GLIA Country Focal Point sub-
activity allocated funds are in addition to, and separate from, the other Project component
financing, or other funding sources.


In terms o f eligible non-salary operating costs, these include expenses incurred for
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, expenses related to
communications and utilities, incremental contributions to rent and refurbishment o f GLIA
offices, insurance, maintenance o f vehicles and office equipment, fuel, spare parts, travel
costs, including those for supervision.

Capacity Development and Technical SupportActivities:

This subcomponent will support necessary activities not otherwise covered under components
1-3. One such aspect is to improve GLIA core professional staff and key component
consultants, Country Focal Points, and other partners (national AIDS program staff, NGOs,
the private sector) in understanding GLIA arrangements and assisting them to carry out
activities effectively. Workshops would be held at both regional and national levels for these
purposes. A second aspect o f this subcomponent i s to allow GLIA to identify and develop 2-
3 additional topics of a cross-cutting nature (such as HIV/AIDS gender considerations for
mobile populations), which GLIA countries agree i s o f importance to the region. This would
be done through consultancies, workshops, and inter- country dialogue.

 Monitoring; and Evaluation, Informationand Reporting;:

The GLIA monitoring and evaluation system will focus on four elements, namely indicators,
data sources, informationproducts and reporting to stakeholders. The Secretariat will have
oversight responsibilities for: (a) M&EPlanning; (b) M&E system training; c) M&E system
implementation; (d) report preparation; (e) coordination o f M&E dissemination activities; if)
advocacy and liaison; g) development o f an operations research agenda; and h) use o f
common data with the financial management system. While much o f the M&E costs will be
covered under other Project Components, overall M&E responsibilities will be financed
under this component. The GLIA M&E system is comprehensive, encompassing the full
range o f program management, biological and behavioral M&E, and linkages with the
national M&E systems. Information for all components will be collected and accessible
through the monitoring system and an Information Center will be financed under this sub-
component. Operations research which directly bears on GLIA performance will also be
financed under this sub-component. All surveillance and operations researchactivities will be
outsourced.




                                             31

                                    Annex 5: Project Costs
          AFRICA: Great Lakes Initiative on HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project



Project Cost By Component andor Activity                    Local          Foreign     Total
                                                        U S $million U S $million US $million

Component 1:HIV/AIDS support to refugees,
affected areas surrounding the refugee                         1.4           6.6        8.0
communities, internally displaced people,
returnees

Component 2: Support to HIV/AIDS related                       1.8           1.2        3.O
Networks

Component 3: Support for Health Sector                         0.4           2.6        3.O
Collaboration

Component 4: Program Management and Policy                     3.0           3.O        6.0
and Capacity Development

PPF(ifone is requestedand approved)

Total Baseline Cost
 Physical Contingencies (2-3% needs to be deducted
 from each component total
 Price Contingencies (2-3%--needs to be deducted                                        1.o
 from each component total)
                               Total Project Costs'            6.6          13.4       20.0
                         Interestduring construction
                                     Front-end Fee
                         Total FinancingRequired                                       20.0

 A letter from GLIA authorities will provide for exemption of taxes and custom duties levied
 inany territory ofthe GLIA countries onworks, goods, and services for thisProject.
 'Identifiable taxes and dutiesare US$m 0. and the total project cost, net o f taxes,
 i s US$m 20.0. Therefore, the share o f project cost net o f taxes i s 100%.




                                               32

                                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                      AFRICA: Great LakesInitiativeonHIV/AJDS(GLIA) SupportProject
                                                          ReadinessChecklist
u                                             ByAppraisal                          By Effectiveness          GLIA Status
1 1Letter of commitment and policy
                                         Provided                                                      Letters received from
   from government received and                                                                        all states; Council of
   N A C established at start o fproject                                                               Ministers (NAC
                                                                                                       equivalent) held its
                                                                                                       inaugural session
                                         Adopted                                                       Convention signedby
                                                                                                       all GLIA member
                                                                                                       countries

                                         Completed:                              Secretary, Finance    Interim NAS Director
                                         Designation of                          and Administration    appointed, TORs for
                                         Ministers from each                     Director, Technical   core staff drafted,
                                         GLIA country and                        and PlanningDirector, process for recruitment
                                         Executive Director,                    M&Eand Internal        initiated
                                         TOR for GLIA                            Auditor selected and
                                         Secretariat                             appointed
                                         professionals agreed,
                                         office functioning
   Key GLIA Secretariat sta                                                      Trainingprogram       Operations Manual
   GLIA Country Focal Points                                                     outlined for GLIA     identifies basic systems
   trained inprocurement, financial                                              secretariat and GLIA
   management, & monitoring&                                                     Country Focal Points

                                         Draft Operations      Final documents   Operations Manual,    Operations Manual
   Implementation Plan (PIP) and         Manuals, PIP and PP   agreed            PIP and PP issued     completed; PIP and PP
   First Year ProcurementPlan (PP)       discussed                                                     drafted
   developed including detailed
   implementation schedule, and
   detailed budget plan (and local

                                         Revised document      Final document                          Operation manual in
                                         Completed             agreed                                  both Frenchand
                                                                                                       English completed
                                         Completed                                                     ASPEN policy
   Management Framework (ESMF)                                                                         framework
   and Policy Framework for                                                                            requirements satisfied

                                        TORs and EO1drafted    TOR approved      Contractor(s)          FMATOR approved
   financial management,                                       for Fiduciary     appointed             and EO1published
   procurement, procurement audit,                             Management
   intemal audit, M& E, community                              Agent

   technical evaluation of grant                               Pre-qualification
   proposals, capacity building)                               and short-list
                                                               completed
                                        Completed:                               Auditor appointed     Contracting completed
                                        Agreement en           TOR approved,
                                        principle              Pre-qualification
                                                               and short-list
                                                               completed
                                        Completed




                                                                33

                                                                                              Identificationof GLIA
                                                                                              CountryFocalPoints,
                                                                                              other partnersneeding
                                                                                              such training
                                                                                              FMA contractorto
procurement& monitoring &                                               identified;planfor    develop systemsbased
evaluationsystem at GLIA                                                installationand       on Operations Manual
                                                                                              requirements

                                                                                              Approvalby Executive
projectprepared.Documents                                                                     Committee or
issued after effectiveness.                                                                   Secretary, dependingon
                                                                                              thresholdsspecifiedin
                                                                                              OperationsManual
                                                                                              GLIA Convention
                                                                                              ratifiedandaccounts
                                                                                              openedwith acceptable
                                                                                              bank
                                                                                              CountryFocalPoints
                                                                                              provideadditional
                                                                                              information


                                 identifiedby GLIA


         Checklist assumes that: (a) there will be few conditions o f effectiveness; and (b) the agreed
         periodfor fulfilling the Readiness Checklist tasks are realistic. Fundsto undertake the tasks
         noted inthe Checklist are available from sources such as PHRD grants, PPF resources, grants
         from other donors.

         Steering and DecisionMaking
         The steering and decision-making bodies o f GLIA are the Council o f Ministers and the
         Executive Committee and its subcommittees.
         (a) Council of Ministers (CM)
         The Council o f Ministers i s the oversight body o f GLIA. It is composed o f the Ministers in
         charge o f HIVIAIDS in the GLIA countries or their alternates. As the supreme organ o f
         GLIA, the C M has the responsibility for approving and taking all legal engagements in the
         name o f GLIA. It also has the responsibility o f approving GLIA annual programs, budgets,
         fiduciary matters, review and approval o f audits, advocacy, and resource mobilization. Its
         main functions are to determine policy and program direction o f the GLIA initiative' and
         modify them as required, approve annual action plans and budget, and approve the annual
         reports, including financial reports (for other functions, see the GLIA Convention, Articles
          10-11, and the Operations Manual, Volume 1, Section I).

         @) Executive Committee (EC)

         The main decision-making body i s the Executive Committee that i s composed o f the Chief
         Executive o f each national AIDS Council or national AIDS Commission. The GLIA
         Executive Secretary i s a permanent participant in the Committee meetings and its secretary.
         The Executive Committee has two subcommittees, a Management Subcommittee and a
         Technical Subcommittee, headed by the EC Chairman and the EC Deputy Chairman,
         respectively. The key tasks o f the Executive Committee are to identify and prioritize areas o f




                                                       34

common interventions, taking into account the national strategic plans on HIV/AIDS; review
and approve proposals for funding (through annual work plans); review the overall GLIA
budget for the upcoming year submittedby the Secretariat and submit it to the Council of
Ministers; and approve GLIA coordination agreements with GLIA implementing partners
(for other functions, see the GLIA Convention, Articles 12-13 and Operations Manual,
Section I).


(c) PartnershipConsultative Group (PCG)


The Council o f Ministers is empowered to establish a Partnership Consultative Group as a the
means by which GLIA can "encourage partners, especially communities, civil society
organizations, NGOs, FBOs, the private sector, United Nations agencies and external
bilateral and multilateral donors, to actively participate in an expanded and coordinated
response to HIV/AIDS inthe Great Lakes Region" (Article 8 (3): Strategic Orientation o f the
GLIA Convention). The PCG will be composed o f stakeholders, includingmajor donors such
as the World Bank and UNAIDS, beneficiaries such as regional networks, the private sector,
technical expertise such as UNHCR, WHO, institutes and academic institutions.


Figure2. InstitutionalArrangements




                                             35

Administration,Coordination,and Monitoring


The responsibility for GLIA'S administration, coordination, and monitoring i s with the
Secretariat. In GLIA countries the GLIA Secretariat will be supported by GLIA Country
Focal Points.


(a) GLIA Executive Secretariat (Secretariat)

Inadditionto the Executive Secretary, the core professionalstaffofthe GLIA Secretariat will
be a Director o f Finance and Administration, Technical and Planning Director, Monitoring
and Evaluation Coordinator, Internal Auditor, ProcurementOfficer, Finance Officer, and a
GLIA Country Focal Point LiaisonOfficer.
The activities o f the Secretariat will be described in the annual work plans and approved by
the Council o f Ministers. The Secretariat i s responsible for implementation o f GLIA
programs and preparation o f financial progress reports, monitoring and evaluation reports,
and such other reports as indicated in the Operations Manual, and/or as the Council o f
Ministers determines. Its key tasks include the overall coordination and management o f
GLIA operations, including HIV/AIDS program planning and implementation, training,
research, and monitoring and evaluation. It also will review the annual work plans developed
by implementation partners, interregional organizations and other units, and GLIA countries
for the presentation and approval by the Executive Committee, and coordinate the appraisal
and approval o f subactivities and refugee-camp action plans (for other functions, see the
Operations Manual, Volume 1, Section I).

(b) GLIA Country FocalPoints:

Each GLIA Country Focal Point, appointed by hisher National HIV/AIDS Council or
Commission Chief Executive but not being employees o f GLIA, will collaborate with the
Executive Secretariat (particularly through the GLIA Executive Secretariat's "GLIA Country
Focal Point LiaisonOfficer") and maintain contact with the national MAPSand other partners
to ensure the integration and coordination of the national programs with regional efforts in
each respective country. These persons will be responsible for promoting, administering the
processing, and monitoring the country-specific programs approved by GLIA. Each country
will ensure that its Country Focal Point has the capacity to perform the above tasks. The
Project will provide the Country Focal Points with a limited budget for operational expenses
that support GLIA activities.


FinancialandM&Eimplementation
Modalities for carrying out finance, procurement and disbursement activities are described in
Annex 7 and inthe respective sections o f the Operations Manual. Detailed monitoring and
evaluation indicators are presented inAnnex 3 and modalities o f M&E reporting are detailed
inVolumel, SectionV ofthe OperationsManual.


Implementationof the Components

(a) Component 1: HIV/AIDS suuuort to refugee sites, affected areas surrounding the sites,
    and internally displaced uersons (IDPI and retumees




                                               36

The refugee camp-site programs o f the component will be implemented by UNHCR on the
basis o f a Memorandum o f Understanding and Management Contract signed between
UNHCR and GLIA. Returnees will be a sharedresponsibility o f UNHCR and the NAC/NAS
in the GLIA countries. Initially, a maximum of two such sitedcatchment areas will be
identified in each GLIA country. Affected areas will be administered by the National AIDS
Commissions or Secretariat (NAC/NAS) within the national HIV/AIDS framework, usingthe
national MAP approach, unless otherwise agreed betweenUNHCR and the GLIA country.

For the refugee camps, the actual implementation will be based on annual action plans and
carried out principally by UNHCR implementing partners, namely NGOs subcontracted by
UNHCR. Subactivity plans to be prepared for affected surrounding areas and IDP and
returnee programs and approved as part o f the annual plans forwarded to GLIA will be
implemented by NGOs or other implementing partners as under national HIV/AIDS
programs. The first-year action plans for selected refugee camps have been reviewed during
appraisal. For sites that complete the first year action plan and have implemented it
satisfactorily, the second year review process will be more limited. Recommended contents
for the subactivity plans are in Volume I1 o f the Operations Manual, while Volume I11
contains detailed work plans for the components.

For each subsequent year, UNHCR and the national authorities will prepare indicative plans
for site activities for each country and submit them approximately three months before the
annual GLIA Council of Ministers meeting, to the GLIA Secretariat for distribution to the
Technical Subcommittee o f the GLIA Executive Committee. The GLIA Technical
Subcommittee will review the proposed action plans forwarded by UNHCR through the
GLIA Secretariat. GLIA Executive Committee will present the action plans annually to the
GLIA Council of Ministers for final approval. The annual action plans will be submitted to
the World Bank for no-objection on a consolidatedbasis. (See the GLIA Operations Manual,
Volume 2, Annex 7, for more details on the procedures, site selection criteria, and results
monitoring.)

(b)Component 2: Supportto HIV/AIDS relatedNetworks

The component will be implementedthrough financing development o f managerial capacities
innetworks and their member organizationsand of learning capabilities and facilities among
them and for the people involved in GLIA countries. The initial priority groups that GLIA
will address are the transport sector groups and PLWHAs and those affected. With growing
understanding o f GLIA'Srole, experience and "value-added," GLIA will be able to support
other national networks and potentially in later years, even local responses which go beyond
these two initial focus areas.

Operationally network activities will be dividedinto phases over the four-year project period.
Phase 1would largely focus on buildingnetwork capacity at the subregional and, to a limited
extent, at the national level, as well as helping establish mechanisms to deliver services.
Phase 2 will build on the work done in the first phase and focus on developing learning
capacity and the environment to share knowledge o f HIV/AIDS between the networks.
Phases 3 to 5 will involve those trained applying their newly acquired skills, establishing
"Knowledge Rooms,"        documentation o f experiences, and dissemination o f successful
experiences. Two umbrella contracts with experienced institutions or firms (one for




                                              37

management capacity, one for knowledge sharing and transfer) are envisioned as the means
to implement virtually all significant activities.

Support to the transport sector will continue along lines o f the more successful subactivities
funded earlier by UNAIDS as well as expanded efforts in policy development. The
mechanism for carrying out these activities will be the use o f an intermediary contractor,
which can prepare action plans and managehpervise multi-country, multi-topic activities,
have them report to, and provide quality assurance to the GLIA Executive Secretariat. The
transport sector support would focus on two principal transmission corridors, namely
Mombasa-Nairobi-Kampala-Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukava-Goma,and Dar es Salaam-Dodoma-
Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukavu-Goma. It is also recognized that lake transport is very important
to the Region and canbe taken into account under the GLIA Support Project, indue course.

Support to PLWHAs and those afected will also take place through appropriate networks,
assisted by an intermediary organizations. Each GLIA country has gone through a process o f
identifying eligible organizations that meet minimum standards for this Project (years o f
existence, types o f programs implemented, experience, and so forth). The supported groups
include networks already engaged in PLWHA support as well as those with an interest in,
and/or willingness to get involved in supportkapacity building services, including those
which can managehpervise such multi-country and multi-topic activities, and report to and
provide quality assuranceto the GLIA Executive Secretariat.

(c) Component 3: Support to Regional HealthSector Collaboration

 The main activities will be informationgathering, technical assistance, meetings o f relevant
 experts from various GLIA countries, preparation o f an inventory o f effective interventions
 for target populations with a view o f sharing country experiences, responses and lessons;
 harmonization o f protocols relating to STUHIVIAIDS care and treatment, and opportunistic
 infections, including voluntary counseling and testing, home based care, prevention o f
 mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) and PMTCT-Plus; and advisory meetings on cost-
 effective procurement of drugs. The areas for initial attention are set forth inVolume I11o f
 the Operations Manual.

 Implementing this component will be based on a proactive approach, by which the GLIA
 Executive Committee (based on recommendations o f its Technical Subcommittee) will
propose to the Council o f Ministers on an annual basis, areas o f health sector collaboration to
be continued for support, or new areas to be undertaken to advance the health sector
harmonization, potentially on the initiatives presented by GLIA member countries. These
 areas will be reflected in a work plan and annual budget prepared by consultants under the
 direction o f the GLIA Executive Secretary (For details concerning the component, see the
 Operations Manual, Volume 2, Annex 6, and Volume 111.)




                                                38

                   GLIA Country Focal Point Responsibilities

Assignment:                            GLIA Country Focal Point (FP)

Reports to:                            Supervisor, National HIV/AIDS
                                       Secretariat/Commission

Coordinates with:                      GLIA Secretariat

Directly controls:                     Consultants/assistants financed under
                                       allocated funds

Liaiseswith:                           Staff o f the National HIV/AIDS
                                       Secretariat/Commission and liaisonpersons
                                       o f its "clients"

Working place:                         As determinedbyNationalHIV/AIDS
                                       Secretariat/Commission

Overall responsibility/objectives: Coordinates GLIA activities in the country, integrates
regional considerations into the national HIV/AIDS programs, and informs the GLIA Country
Focal Point Liaison Officer (based in the GLIA Executive Secretariat) on HIV/AIDS
developments inhis/her country.


General: The GLIA Country Focal Point (FP) is a staff member o f and in the National
HIV/AIDS Secretariat/ Commission (Not a GLIA staff person). S/he will be engaged in the
regional fight against HIV/AIDS, accessinghtilizing the national AIDS program capabilities to
support GLIA advocacy, policy and program formulation, program implementation, financial
and procurement activities, and monitoringo f results. For ensuring continuity, the Focal Point's
appointment could be extended on the basis o f satisfactory performance, evaluated annually by
the NationalAIDS Executive Secretary/Director, inconsultation with the GLIA Secretariat.
Basedon an annual GLIA-approved work plan, the GLIA Country Focal Point will be provided
with funds for eligible activities as described inthe GLIA Operations Manual. These funds will
be made available ina GLIA sub-account at the NationalAIDS Commission (or similar entity).
The Focal Point will be authorized to instruct the NAC financial unit to release the funds in
accordance with the annual work plan. The annual work plan will reflect the needs o f the
individual country (e.g. improved administratiodsupervision o f all or any GLIA component
activities (including hiring an assistant for the FP), short-term consultancies, IEC material
development, environmental matters, national workshops, additional consultancies/technical
assistance, training, eligible goods, travel and operating costs). These GLIA country-allocated
funds are in addition to, and separate from, the activity/component financing under GLIA, the
national MAP, or other fundingsources.




                                                  39

Basic GLIA Focal Point Operating Principles:



0  GLIA activities will be complementary or supplementary andnot replacingactivities that
   canbe financed under the country-specific MAPS;

0  Activities to be financed under the yearly allocation from GLIA for national responses shall
   be administered inaccordance with the national M A P procedures.


Specific Tasks related GLIA Secretariat Supuort:


For Component 1(refugees, IDPs. returnees, surrounding; areas):

0  Tasks: Coordinate with other staff of the National AIDS program and national authorities
   (such as those responsible for refugee, displaced person and returnees, health sector), as well
   as non-public representatives in the planning, procurement, and implementation o f GLIA
   financed activities in surrounding areas, and such other areas explicitly to be implemented by
   the national program under Component 1.
0  GLIA Secretariat Support: Assistance regularly provided by the GLIA Refugee Activity
   Coordinator, GLIA Country Focal Point Liaison Officer, M&E staff, Financial and
   Procurement Officers and Financial Management and Procurement Agent (FMPA). During
   initial GLIA project phase, intensive support from the Refugee Activity Coordinator.
For Component 2 (networks):

0  Tasks: Assist inplanning national network activities and participate, as may be appropriate.
   (Implementation o f component activities will be the principalresponsibility o f intermediary
   institutions once these organizations have been identified.) Assist in the selection and
   supervision o f Knowledge Rooms sites.

0  GLIA Secretariat Support: Support and supervision o f the component will be carried out by
   the intermediary institutions, GLIA Networks Activity Coordinator, M&E Coordinator, and
   FMPA, with GLIA Country Focal Point Liaison Officer facilitating resolution o f
   implementation problems.
For Component 3 (health harmonization)

0  Tasks: Coordinate with the appropriate health sector and other officials with regard to
   Component areas 1-3 and area 5. With respect to Area 4 (health-related services at key
   sites), assist in their selection, coordination and compliance with national M A P
   procurement, environmentalprocedures andparticipate insite supervision.

0  Facilitate information transfer o f national health policies to the GLIA Information Centre o f
   protocols, programs, and experience relevant to GLIA.

0  GLIA Secretariat Support: Support provided by the Health Activity Coordinator, M&E
   Coordinator and staff, FMA (coordinates with national M A P financial management staff),
   GLIA Country FocalPoint LiaisonOfficer.
For Social andEnvironmental safeguards:

0  Implement the Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the Policy
   Framework for Compensation (PFC) as described inthese documents.




                                               40

   When, where, and if required by the Frameworks, with respect to nationally implemented
   activities, assures implementation o f the necessary actions, including environmental
   monitoring and environmental impact assessments.
   GLIA Secretariat Support: Country Focal Point Liaison Officer, M&E Coordinator and
   staff.


Other tasks:
   Stay apprised o f national developments which relate to GLIA programs, and vice versa;
   Maintain regular contact with the GLIA Secretariat, inparticular, the GLIA Country Focal
   Point Liaison Officer through e-mail, telephone andduringthe Country Focal Point Liaison
   Officer visits to assure that implementation progress and problems o f GLIA activities are
  known to GLIA management;
   Submit subactivity documents provided to inthe country for all components are submitted
  to the GLIA Country Focal Points Liaison Officer for forwarding to the appropriate unitsof
   the GLIA Secretariat. Provide data, information, and reports as may be required by GLIA in
   a timely manner and ina form that will satisfy the monitoringneeds o f GLIA;
   Coordinate GLIA monitoringand evaluation inthe country, with the support o f the relevant
   offices inthe NationalAIDS Council;
   Contribute to the GLIA InformationCentre those materials relevant to enhance other GLIA
  country awareness o f national activities and policies;
  Receiveheview all GLIA information and reports the same way as GLIA'Sstaff relevant to
  thenationalprogram.
  Advise the national member o f the GLIA Executive Committee on GLIA-related matters
  which require comment and advice.
  Assist the representative to the GLIA Council o fMinisters as requested.




                                             41

            Annex 7: FinancialManagementand Disbursement Arrangements
         AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeonHIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project

A. Summary of FinancialManagementAssessment:

GLIA is a new institution which has been operating essentially with resources provided by
the Government o f Rwanda. GLIA has served principally as a facilitator in the
implementation o f activities supported by other development partners despite the fact that its
capacity for effective management o f finances has been inexistent. GLIA has recently moved
to becoming a body corporate, with the necessary infrastructure that will enable it deliver its
mandated functions. With significant financial and technical support from the GLIA Support
Project, a suitable fiduciary management environment will be put in place in GLIA. To this
end, the future GLIA financial management system will be developed and its computerization
will be designed and installed during the PPF period with help o f a consultant (A Fiduciary
Management Agent (FMA) experienced in undertaking complex day-to-day fiduciary
management tasks o f GLIA'Smagnitude as a sub-regional body). The system i s documented
in detail in the GLIA Operations Manual. The fiduciary management function will be
contracted out initially, at least for the first year o f the Project. Inview o f the fact that GLIA
i s a newly created body, with a life beyond the GLIA Support Project, it i s envisaged that
GLIA shall with assistance of the Project establish a sustainable competent and qualified
fiduciary management capacity o f its own. In this regard, GLIA Secretariat will recruit core
professional staff comprising o f the Director o f Finance and Administration and the Finance
Officer who will initially work along side the consultant during the PPF period. Duringthis
period, the consultant will not only have responsibility to operate the fiduciary management
system but will also help to train and build an adequate and efficient fiduciary management
capacity before it is gradually phased out. In summary, the primary fiduciary management
tasks will relate to financial planning and budgeting, budgetary control, funds management
and disbursement, accounting and reporting as well as the           procurement management. Set
forth are highlightsof the financial system which will be inplace by effectiveness:

GLIA will maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare reliable and accurate financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA in a timely
manner in accordance with OP/BP 10.02. The system will have capability to reflect the
operations, resources, and expenditures o f the project and its activities in accordance with
sound accountingpractices. Inthis regard:


    0   GLIA will procure, install, and operate financial and procurement management
        software to capture, analyze, and report financial information in an accurate and
        timely fashion for all the funds that are advanced and accounts that are allocated to
        the project. The software will also be able to monitor physical progress o f the project
        and provide a possibility to print withdrawal applications directly, following World
        Bank-defined formats. All modules o f software will be linked so as to avoid
        duplication inthe recording o f information.


    0   GLIA will prepare for World Bank no-objection an annual financing plan o f the
        project. The financing plan will be based on annual work programs, estimated
        budgets, and procurement plans. It will project, not only the total need for funds, but
        also how they will be distributedbetween the various disbursement categories.




                                                  42

     0    GLIA will adopt report-based disbursement from the outset. This provides more
          flexibility than the transaction-based system. A forecast of project expenditures,
          covering the initial six months o f project execution, as well as the next reporting
          period, is already agreed upon between the GLIA Secretariat and IDA, which will
          provide a good basis for disbursing grant proceeds o n a semi-annual basis.
          Subsequent disbursement will continue on basis of performance and projected project
          activities on a quarterly interval.


                     Table 1: World Bank Financial Svstem Reauirements for GLIA

                                                          ~~~~~~               ~      ~    ~




                                                                                  Fund4
       Accounting method                                   i.ComplieswithBankProceduresBP10.02
                                                           ii.Complieswith proceduresdetailedinagreed
                                                           individual project-accounting manual
                                                           iii.UsesEnglishorFrenchlanguage
                                                            iv. Usesdouble-entry bookkeepingsystem
                                                           v. Provides historical cost accounting
                                                           vi. Requires a computerized system
       Books o faccount                                    i. Cashpayment&receiptbook
                                                           ii.Petty-cashbook
                                                           iii.Storesrecords
                                                           iv. Fixed-asset register
                                                           v. Cheques-issuedregister
                                                           vi. Cash-issuedregister
                                                           vii Journal for non-cash transactions
                                                           viii. Credit drawdown register
                                                           ix. Register o f SOEs
                                                           x. General ledger
       Financialstatementsandreports                        i. Fortnightlyandannualbankreconciliation
                                                                 statementsfor all bank accounts
                                                           ii.FinancialMonitoringReportsincluding:
                                                                 a. Discussiono fprojectprogress
                                                                b. Sources anduses o ffunds statement
                                                                 c.  Uses of funds by expenditure type
                                                                d. Output-monitoring reports
                                                                 e.  Procurement report
                                                            iii.Disbursementdocumentationfor
                                                                 replenishment (see Chapter 14for specific
                                                                 details)
                                                            iii.Specialaccount(s)statementplusannual
                                                                 statement o f expenditure withdrawal by
                                                                 agreed categories
                                                           iv. Annual summaryof sources anduses o f
                                                                 funds by agreedcategories and individual
                                                                 fundswhere macticable


 Primaly organizations suchas National HN/AIDS Councils and Secretariats, which are
responsiblefor the maintenanceand management of the Special Account(s) and other overall
MAP fiduciary responsibilities, the coordinationof the MAP program, the disbursementof
funds to secondary or intermediaryorganizations (Category B), and the disbursementof funds
to communities (Category C)




                                                            43

                                                monthsbeforeyear end
    Reportingcascade                        i.Allactivitiesfinanceddirectlybythe
                                            project, plus all GLIA activities
                                            ii.Sumofallsub-accountsorsecondary
                                            activities funded bythe project
    Intemalaudit                            i.Ongoingprocessandactasamanagement
                                            tool for monitoring financial expediency and
                                            propriety
    Extemal annual audit                    i.FullannualauditofGLIAbodycorporate



B. Disbursements

(a) Fundingarrangements in general

Fundingfor GLIA comes from different sources, such as international agencies (World Bank,
other donors) and this will be deposited in GLIA'S foreign currency accounts, or, from
member governments to its local currency accounts. GLIA Secretariat will then request that
funds be transferred to suppliers against their invoices or to accounts o f various partners
implementing agreed-upon programs or sub activities.

@) The mechanismto beusedfor the flow offunds

The Figure which follows illustrates the primary flow o f funds for all activities other than
those carried out by UNHCR. Inthe case o f UNHCR, it will advise on the details o f its bank
account into which funds from the World Bank Treasury will be deposited on a
predetermined basis (semi-annual), with the approval o f the GLIA Executive Committee
acting through the GLIA Secretary, and World Bank no-objection.




                                            44

            Figure1:FlowofWorldBankand other grantsand governmentfunds

                                         WorldBank


     donors


                                             Foreign                     Bank a/c of a
                  Account for
                  their                     currency                         major
                  contributions             Account                      implementing
                                                                          partner e.g.
                                                                            UNHCR




                                                         Bank accountsof the
                                                  implementationpartners (CSOs,
                                                        Government agencies)



                                                                         unitsofthe major
                                                                         implementing partner


Besides the IDA-funded Special Account, an account for collecting other donor contributions
may be opened in a commercial bank, o f GLIA'S choice, taking into account the practical
aspects required for efficient management o f the account. To ensure efficient operation and
guarantee that resources get to the intended agencies on time and that reports are submitted to
the Secretariat on a timely basis, the mechanisms for controlling the flow o f funds and for
reporting on transactions will be made simple and regular. The GLIA Secretariat will approve
and request for (semi-annual) transfer o f funds (based on agreed work plans) directly to
UNHCR by the World Bank (direct payment disbursement method). Other potential
intermediary partners may be approved for similar procedures, and in exceptional cases, civil-
society organizations, (NGOs and other recognized bodies and associations located in GLIA
countries).

The figure indicates that GLIA Secretariat will pay expenses arising from its own operations
and for procurement that it carries out, whether they relate to the central unit or to bulked
procurement for other implementing institutions.




                                              45

(c) Firstreleasefor sub-activityimplementationto beneficiaries

For approved sub-activities, the GLIA Secretariat, with the help o f the FMA, will draw up the
relevant contract for funding. The amount to be released as the first advance will normally
not exceed 25 percent o f the total sub-activity cost. However, this percentage could vary with
the cash required for the first quarter activities, in light o f the peculiar nature o f the sub-
activity, the reliability o f the implementing partner, and the adequacy o f the accounting staff
o f the implementing partner, but in any event, the amount o f the first advance should not
exceed the amount o f $30,000 .

After taking into account all these factors, the respective beneficiary can request that an
amount (subject to the maximum limit o f $30,000) rather than a percentage be paid as the
first advance. The first advance for each sub-activity that i s approved will be paid or released
directly to the implementing partner. This will be done either into the implementing partner's
bank account or by bankers draft or check (cheque), whichever is appropriate or as requested
by the implementing partner concerned. Cash payments should be discouraged as much as
possible, but, depending on the location and availability o fbanking services invarious places,
cash paymentsmay occasionally be unavoidable.

(d) SubsequentReleases

After the first advance payment, subsequent disbursement tranches may be made on the basis
o f "certificates o f progress" or expenditure statement rather than invoices. The sub-activity
agreement would state who would provide the certificate o f progress (e.g. by a national
HIV/AIDS Commission or a contracted agent). Large NGOs, however, could submit
financial reports to the GLIA, if so agreed. Alternatively, all funds received by implementing
partner should be accounted for on timely basis by prompt submission o f returns on all funds
received and utilized by implementing partner. The returns will consist o f a listing o f all
eligible expenditures incurred, with copies o f the relevant supporting documents, such as
receipts, invoices, bank statements and certification by beneficiaries (where applicable).

N o subsequent release will be made to an implementingpartner untilit has submitted the
returns on the first or an earlier advance granted.

(Typical forms used indisbursement operations inthe case o f the World Bank are inAnnexes
3 0) and 3 (k).)

(e) Disbursement to Community-BasedOrganizations

GLIA would not finance directly CBO sub-activities except in exceptional cases when no
other arrangement i s feasible. The usual manner would be through an implementing partner
(CSO). The implementingpartner will release the funds to CBOs intwo tranches. The second
trance will be paid out on the basis o f the CBO's request accompanied by an implementation
progress report. The documentation, including invoices, can be kept at the community level,
and will be reviewed by external auditors and supervision missions.




                                                46

Financial Management Risks

         Risk/ Issues              RiskRating            Mitigating Measure
GLIA convention explicitly                          GLIA Secretariat will be
indicates     that     GLIA                         assisted   by a      Fiduciary
Secretariat shall recruit its                       Management Agent (FMA)
staff from within the GLIA                          inthe first year, to helpset up
countries, some o f which       Substantive/Medium  internal controls and make
have       low      fiduciary                       the   fiduciary    management
management           capacity                       information             system
necessary for the scope and                         operational. The FMA will
nature o f the GLIA Support                         also be required to build
Project and GLIA as a body                          capacity in the secretariat
corporate                                           during the first project year
                                                    and be gradually phased out
Political manipulation and                          Internal control environment
influence over use for GLIA                         will   be   strengthened     by
resources by GLIA member                            adhering     to    the   GLIA
country, and inparticular, the        Low           Convention and regulations
host country.                                       in the Operational Manual.
                                                    An Internal Auditor will be
                                                    hired to complement the
                                                    internal control and report
                                                    directly to the Executive
                                                    Secretary as first level o f self
                                                    control.
Tax and Duty Exemption                              GLIA Countries to reach
expected to be granted by to                        agreement on how the tax
GLIA as a body corporate o f          Low           and    duty issue will be
international status by the                         harmonized        for    GLIA
host country may potentially                        activities  in the member
not bind the other GLIA                             countries
countries. For expenditures
incurred in their territory
unless    such     exemption
already    applies  to    the
national MAP program.




                                       47

Disbursementfromthe GrantAccount andProjectSpecialAccount

(a) Disbursementof GrantProceeds

GLIA Support Project will use the report-based disbursement approach in disbursing grant
proceeds from the beginning after effectiveness. The World Bank approved retroactive
financing o f USD$2.0 million equivalent for a period of 1 year prior to the estimated grant
signature. It is envisaged that the FMA will have the necessary capacity for using FMRsbased
disbursement from the outset, inview o f their skills, experience and competence. However, the
FMA staff will be quickly familiarized with the FMR guidelines and IDA requirements in a
week's seminar to be conducted by the task team as soon as it i s contracted. Essentially, both
the FMA and the GLIA core professional fiduciary staff will be expected to demonstrate the
ability to operate a report-based disbursement system in readiness for implementation and to
gradually train other GLIA staff on system.

As a result, GLIA will withdraw grant proceeds in form o f advances on the basis o f FMRs
which will enable it to have a highliquidity level and a faster cash flow replenishment that will
be necessary to fund its many sub-activities. The key determining factor for the benefits o f this
approach to materialize will be timely submission o f quarterly FMRs and supporting
documentation and the nature o f that documentation, as explained inthe following paragraphs.
The following principles will apply:

0   All expenses related to contracts disbursed on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports
    (FMR), and the documentation supporting all FMRs will be made available for review by
    Bank supervision missions and by the external auditors at any time. However, expenses
    above the prior-review thresholds may be processed as direct payment transactions andor
    through Special Commitment based on Letters of Credit (opened by the recipient's Bank) in
    favor o f the suppliers on the request by GLIA Secretariat in the usual manner where full
    documentation will be provided.

0   Transaction supporting documentation for Financial Monitoring Reports and any
    Statements o f Expenditure (SOE if used) will be retained by the Executive Secretariat. The
    primary responsibility for maintaining the records rests on the Executive Secretariat even if
    contracting day-to-day financial operations to a consultant (FMA).

e   The prior-review thresholds will be:
    --- US$lOO,OOO for works and goods,
        US$250,000
                   for consultant services-firms, and
        US$50,000 for consultant serviceshdividuals.


(b) DirectDisbursementsto UNHCR (and other potential intermediaries)
Pursuant to the signing o f a management contract between UNHCR and GLIA Secretariat,
disbursement o f grant proceeds will be made on basis o f requests (withdrawal application)
submitted by GLIA Secretariat by way of direct payment by IDA from time to time to finance
agreed activities for durations o f six months each. The financial management capacity and
systems o f UNHCR are considered adequate, and reliable for the GLIA Secretariat to entrust
with project funds. Inthe event that project funds are used for inappropriate purposes, GLIA
will communicate its concern and resolve the matter with U`NHCR. This provision shall be
provided for inthe management contract with UNHCR. Thus a determination by UNHCR that
existing Implementing Partners have sufficient capacity and are adequately applying such




                                               48

capacity with regard to their fiduciary responsibilities to UNHCR will be considered sufficient
for purposes of the GLIA Support Project. Ifnew ImplementationPartners are identifiedduring
implementation, UNHCR will assess their financial management capacity in accordance with
their rules and procedures. Funds should not be transferred to any such partners untilthey have
been assessed, agreements have been made and formally approved, and appropriate training
and briefings have beenprovided on the financial management procedures adoptedby GLIA.

Bank accounts
The bank accounts and their operators are as follows:

        A foreign currency account (Special Account - SA) for the GLIA Support Project will
        be established in a commercial bank o f repute acceptable to IDA in the sub-region.
        Disbursement o f grants will be made to this account by IDA as authorized by the
        designated parties in accordance with the Development Grant Agreement. The Special
        Account will be administeredby the GLIA Secretariat, onbehalfo f GLIA which will be
        the recipient of the grant.
        An account for financing country based GLIA activities, into which contributions will
        be provided by the GLIA Secretariat from time to time on basis o f approved annual
        work program will also be established in each GLIA country through the country
        NACNAS. This account will be opened ina commercial bank of repute and preferably
        inthe samebank (or itcorrespondingbank) holdingthe national MAP SpecialAccount
        inthe GLIA countries. These accounts may also be used for country contributions made
        to GLIA Support Project (ifany). These accounts will be administered by the NACs and
        the Focal Points to meet approved country project activities under GLIA Support
        Project for which the Focal Points will be responsible.


        Local currency bank account to be opened by the GLIA Secretariat in home city
        (Kigali) for the day to day local expenses under the oversight o f the Executive Secretary
        assisted by the Director o f Finance and Administration.


Disbursement Categories and Percentages




                  Expenditure Category       Amount in US$       % IDA Financing


                                                                 .""            ".""""..,




                                               49

Table 4 shows how theproject expects to dispersethe funds each fiscal year.


                          Table 4: CumulativeDisbursementSchedule
                                              (US%m)




C. Audit

1. External Audit: GLIA will recruit a qualified, experienced, and independent external
auditing firm to carry out the annual GLIA Support Project audits. The terms o f reference for
the audit that set out the scope o f the audit that are acceptable to IDA will be finalized prior
to effectiveness, while the selection of the auditor through a competitive process following
the IDA Guidelines for selection o f consultants will be finalized soon after effectiveness. The
audited financial statements based on audit standards acceptable to IDA, together with the
auditor's single audit report and the management letter covering identifiedsignificant internal
control and accounting system deficiency and weaknesses shall be submitted to IDA within
six months after the end o f the period (financial year) under review. A single audit opinion
will be issued on specific controls such as compliance with procurement and financial
procedures, FMR requirements and International Accounting Standards as applicable to the
Public Sector.


1.      InternalAudit: Inaddition, as part of its core professionalstaff, GLIA will
complement and strengthen the internal control environment by recruiting a qualified and
experienced Internal Auditor, who will report directly to the GLIA Executive Secretary and
will be part of the GLIA Technical Committee attendingto audit matters.

                             FinancialManagementAction Plan


Issue                           RemedialAction                     DueDate
                                Recommended
The GLIA Secretariat to                  An international firm             Prior to Effectiveness
ensure the existence o f a               o f consultants will be           slated for April 01,
sound financial management               hired to design and               2005. This i s a
system                                   install the system to             conditionfor
                                         the satisfactory o f the          Effectiveness.
                                         secretariat duringthe         0   FMA and/or Stafffor
                                         PPF period (Phase I). Phase I1inplace by
                                      0  TOR for the FMA                   Effectiveness slated
                                         and/or GLIA                       for A ~ r i0l1.2005.




                                                50

                                       competent and              0   FMAcontract
                                       qualified experienced          concluded and    '
                                       Staff to manage the            formally signed not
                                       system to be agreed            later than January 31,
                                       and core professional          200
                                       fiduciary staff hired
                                       (Phase 11).
                                    0  Comprehensive
                                       contract of
                                       engagement with
                                       FMA formally
                                       signed.




IntegratedInformation           Consultant TOR for the task   Assignment to be completed
System that includes M&E        agreed and assignment to be   by Effectivenessdate slated
based on a suitable software    fully undertakenduring        for April 01,2005
customized to suit needs o f    Phase I(PPF financed). Core
GLIA as a body corporate        fiduciary staffhired and in
and installed and test run      place to supervise and
with dummydata. GLIA            oversee the consultant
Secretariat i s responsible for
the task.

1-2 days Financial              Task team leader to mobilize  Seminar to be delivered not
MonitoringReports training      IDA staffas appropriatefor    later than March 15, 2005 or
for the FMA and core            delivery o f the training     as soon as the FMA and core
fiduciary professional staff                                  fiduciary staff are inplace
undertakenby IDA                                              andready

InternalAuditor to be           TOR to be agreedand           Not later than April 30,2005
appointed. Action by GLIA       appointment concluded in
secretariat                     consultation with IDA

TOR for ExternalAuditor         GLIA Secretariat to prepare   Not later than Effectiveness
acceptable to IDA to be         the TOR duringthe PPF         date slated for April 01, 2005
finalized. Action by GLIA       phase while competitive
Secretariat                     selection process following
                                IDA guidelines for selection
                                o f consultants to be pursued
                                soon after effectiveness




                                               51

                           Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
        AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeonHIV/AIDS(GLIA) Support Project


General

Procurement for the Project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated
May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Development Grant Agreement. The general
description of various items under different expenditure category i s described below. For
each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Recipient and the Bank Task Team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement
Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. To the extent practicable
Bank`s standard bidding documents for goods and Standard Requests for Proposals for
consultants as well as all standard evaluation forms would be used throughout project
implementation.

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and would be published in each GLIA
country after negotiations in the Development Gateway online, UN Development Business
online and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines. Inaddition, a Specific
Procurement Notice (SPN) for ICB for goods i s required and Expressions o f Interest (EOI)
for consulting services with an estimated value inexcess o f USD 200,000.

In order to accelerate project implementation, GLIA has the intention to proceed with the
initial steps of procurement before signing the related Development Grant Agreement
particularly with regard to the implementation o f the refugees' component by UNHCR. The
procurement procedures for other than UNHCR, including advertising, will be done in
accordance with the Guidelines in order for the eventual contracts to be eligible for Bank
financing, and the normal review process by the Bank will be followed in accordance with
the ProcurementGuidelines for Goods and Consultants mentionedabove.

Procurement of Works

Works procured under GLIA, would include small rehabilitation and/or construction o f some
office spaceknowledge roomskealth facilities in GLIA countries. N o ICB or NCB works
contracts are expected under the project. However, if this happened, works estimated to cost
between USD 250,000 and USD 50,000 equivalent per contract would be procured using
NCB procedures satisfactory to IDA inaccordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Small contracts estimated to cost less than USD 50,000 equivalent may be procured by way
o f soliciting quotations through written invitations from not less than three qualified
contractors from GLIA countries. RegistratiodClassification o f contractors may be used to
identify contractors for such very small contracts.




                                              52

Procurementof Goods

Goods procured under this project would include office equipment, computers, video-audio
equipment, vehicles, office supplies and furniture in small quantities and HIV materials other
than pharmaceuticals. The procurement will be done using Bank's SBD for all ICB and
National SBD satisfactory to the Bank. To the extent possible, goods that could be procured
from one supplier would be grouped into contract packages, and packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of USD 250,000 or more would be procured under ICB procedures (if
appropriate). Procurement o f goods packages estimated to cost more than USD 50,000 but
less than U S D 250,000 would be procured usingNCB procedures. Goods packages estimated
to cost less than USD 50,000 would be procured by shopping on the basis o f comparison o f
quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Requests for such quotations will include a
clear description and quantity o f the goods, as well as requirements for delivery time and
point of delivery. The sample request for quotations annexed to the Operations Manual would
be used. Goods like vehicles, computers, etc., can be procured through the specialized
agencies of the UnitedNations (IAPSO, UNFPA) with delivery at each GLIA country site, if
applicable, inaccordance with the Bank Guidelines.

Selection of Consultants
The consultant services are related to financial management, procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, networking, training, workshop and studies performed by firms and individuals.
Consulting firms for all assignments estimated to cost the equivalent o f USD 100,000 or
more will be selected though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. For
assignments costing less than USD 100,000, QCBS or Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
procedures may be used provided the assignment meets the requirements o f paragraph 3.6 in
the case o f LCS. Consultant services provided by firms estimated to cost less than the
equivalent o f USD 50,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications o f consultants
in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. Assignments estimated to cost the
equivalent o f USD 200,000 or more would be advertised for Expressions o f Interest (EOI) in
Development Business (UNDB), in DgMarket online and in at least one newspaper o f wide
national circulation in every GLIA country. Inaddition, EO1for specialized assignments may
be advertised in an international newspaper or magazine.          In the case of assignments
estimated to cost less than USD 200,000 but more than USD 100,000 the assignment will be
advertisednationally inmembers-state.
The shortlist o f firms for assignments estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 may be made
up entirely o f national consultants from GLIA countries inaccordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.. In case o f assignments requiring individual
consultants, the selection will follow the procedures stipulated in Section V o f the
Consultants Guidelines.

Others

UNHCR

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) will be responsible for the
implementation o f Component 1 inthe refuges sites. The national AIDS Commissions and/or
Secretariats (NACLNAS) within the national HIV/AIDS-MAP framework using the national
MAP approach will administer Component 1 activities in affected surrounding areas.
Retumees will be the shared responsibility o f UNHCR and the NAC/NASs; while




                                              53

responsibility for IDPs will be decided upon on a case-by-case basis. A Memorandum o f
Understanding between GLIA and UNHCR will be presented to the Council o f Ministers at
its next session. A long term (four year) Management Contract between GLIA and the
UNHCR will set the terms andconditions for financing UNHCR activities. This Management
Contract has been drafted and will be submitted to IDA for no-objection. The actual
implementation will be based on annual Action Plans and carried out by Implementing
Partners, namely NGOs subcontracted by UNHCR. The first-year Action Planwas developed
during the GLIA August 2004 mission. The program activities will be reviewed every year
and IDA will be requested to provide its no-objection.

ImplementationPartners(IP)

The GLIA Executive Secretariat will have the responsibility to conduct an assessment o f the
Implementation Partners (IP) to evaluate their capacity to implement procurement in a timely
and sound manner before delegating any procurement activities (other than UNHCR
Implementing Partners). GLIA will train the IP staff if necessary and will supervise the
procurement by international NGOs and other inter-country organizations benefiting from
project funds. IP will carry out their own procurement, if acceptable to GLIA, but must follow
the policies and practices o f the World Bank. If their practices differ from those o f the World
Bank, they will be subject to review to assure consistency with the GLIA procurement
principles andrules inaccordance with the Operations Manual.

Conflict o f interest: No government entity from GLIA countries involved with GLIA
managementmay be a member of the IP management inany capacity that can be regarded as
conflict o f interest per IDA guidelines. No member o f an IP may exert any oversight or
selection authority over other IPS.

ProcurementbyNAC/NASat country level

At country level, the structure responsiblefor procurement inthe NAC/NAS will be used and
the GLIA Country Focal Points will be responsible for coordination. Packages of sub-
activities will be limited to the equivalent o f $15,000. Contracts can be awarded at the
country level using the NAC/NAS procurement structure. All contracts over this threshold
will be awardedby GLIA.

Trainingand Workshops

All training and workshops under the Project will be conducted on the basis o f programs,
which should be approved by the Bank on an annual basis, and which shall, inter alia,
identify: (a) the training and workshops envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the
institutions which will conduct the training; (d) the duration o f the proposed training and (e)
an estimate of the cost.

B.      Assessment of the apencv's capacitv to implement procurement

The GLIA Executive Secretariat will carry out procurement activities. Since the Executive
Secretariat is a new entity with no prior experience inprocurement, a Fiduciary Management
Agency (FMA) will be recruited before effectiveness. The FMA will be responsible to
establish a sound financial and procurement management system for the project with the
objective to provide the GLIA management with accurate and timely information regarding




                                              54

resources and expenditures. The team o f the FMA i s expected to consist o f a team manager
(financial management specialist); an accountant (responsible also for disbursements); a
procurement officer. The FMA will be under the authority o f the Executive Secretariat and
will be also responsible to train the staff of the Executive Secretary and enhance their
capacity inthe fiduciary field.

It was not possible to conduct an assessment of the capacity o f the Executive Secretariat to
implement procurement actions for the project since neither the FMA, nor the local personnel
are inplace. The Operations Manual gives the organizational structure for implementing the
project and the interaction between the FMA, the GLIA staff responsible for procurement, as
well as with the six GLIA MAP Projects. The Operations Manual includes, inaddition to the
procurement procedures, the SBDs to be used for eachprocurement method, as well as model
contracts for works, goods and consultants procured.

Most o f the issues and risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of
the project have been identified. The corrective measures, which have been agreed, are
described below.

                                                                                 ~    ~~




           RisksDssues             Risk                 CorrectiveMeasures
                                  Rating
 Procurement procedure may           H     Hiringo fa Fiduciary ManagementAgency
 not be used efficiently due to            (FMA) as a condition o feffectiveness.
 newness o f GLIA, poor
 governance, or financial and              Strong internal control procedures will be set

 procurement management                    upandmaintained, withregular supervision

 inadequacy.                               by Bankprocurement specialists, especially in
                                           the first year.
                                           The Operations Manual will include, in
                                           addition to the procurement procedures, the
                                           SBDs for eachprocurementmethod, as well
                                           as model contracts for goods and consultants
                                           services to be procured.
 GLIA staffmaynot have               M     The FMA will be responsible for the
 sufficient knowledge and                  management o f procurement, the supervision
 experience with Bank's                    and the training of GLIA staff (procurement
 procedures given the limited              officer).
 number o f procurement
 specialist inthe sub-region.
            H=High "                  M=Moderate            L=Lowhegligible


Inabsence ofthe FMAand local staff, the overallproject riskfor procurement at this stageis
considered high.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Council of Ministers will approve an annual plan that includes the procurement plan,
with the Secretariat making operational procurement decisions without need of further
Council o f Ministers' approval. The GLIA has developed a Procurement Plan for the first 18




                                             55

months o f project implementation, which provides the basis for the procurement methods.
This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the Task Team during negotiations on
October 14, 2004 and is available at the GLIA Executive Secretariat at glia@rwandal.com or
other specified GLIA website. It will also be available in the Project's database and in the
Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Task
Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.




All goods contracts estimated to cost USD 250,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's
prior review inaccordance with the procedures inAppendix Io f the Procurement Guidelines.
Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the
prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review. All contracts awarded on basis o f direct
contracting will require prior review and clearance o f IDA.

All single source selection will be subject to IDA prior review. Consultancy contracts with
firms with estimated value o f USD 100,000 or more, and consultancy contracts with
individuals estimated value o f USD 50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the
IDA inaccordance with the procedures inAppendix Iof the Consultants Guidelines. All out
o f country training/workshops will be subject to IDA review.

Table A: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review

                         Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject
   Expenditure                                                            to Prior Review
     Category         Basedon estimate in
                                   OrSD)        Procurement Method        (USD millions)
                      the procurementplan                                    Estimated
1. Works                <250,000                      NCB                  Not Expected
                        < 50,000                  Shopping                 Post Review
2. Goods               >250,000                         ICB                      All
                       <250,000                       NCB                      The first 3
                         <50,000                  Shopping                       contracts
                                                                           Post Review
3. Consulting          > 100,000                     QCBS                        All
Services: Firms        < 100,000                     QCBS                  Post Review
                       < 50,000                  LCS/CQS                   Post Review
                       > 10,000                         sss                      All
Individuals            > 50,000                Individual Consultant             All
                       < 50,000                Individual Consultant       Post Review




                                              56

                            PUBLICATION OFRESULTSANDDEBRIEFING


  Publication o f results o f the biddingprocess will be requiredfor all ICBs, NCBs, and Direct
  Contracting. Publication should take place as soon as the no objection is received, except for
  Direct Contracting and NCB, which may be done quarterly and in a simplified format. For
  selection o f consultants disclosure o f results i s also required. All consultants competing for
  the assignment would be informed o f the result o f the technical evaluation (number o f points
  that each firm received) before the opening o f the financial proposals, and at the end o f the
  selection process the results should be published. The publication o f results in selection o f
  consultants applies to all methods, however for QCBS and Single Source Selection (SSS) the
  publication may be done quarterly and in a simplified format. GLIA shall debrief losing
  bidders/consultants on the reasons why they were not awarded the contract, if the losing
  bidders/consultants request for explanation.


                                FRAUD,  COERCIONAND CORRUPTION



  All procuring entities as well as Bidders/Suppliers/Contractors shall observe the highest
  standard o f ethics during the procurement and execution o f contracts financed under the
  project in accordance with paragraphs 1.15 & 1.16 o f the Procurement Guidelines and
  paragraphs 1.25 & 1.26 o f the Consultants Guidelines.

  D. Freauencv ofProcurementSupervision

  Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
  assessment o f GLIA, it i s recommended that there be supervision missions to the field every
  six months to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

  E. Summarv ofActions beforeeffectiveness
1 Actions                                                         1   Responsible     I  Dateof     1
  Publicationo f GPN                                                     GLIA         I  10/30/04
  Publicationo f EO1for the selection o f FMA.                           GLIA            10/30/04
  Publicationo f EO1for GLIA Staff                                       GLIA            10/30/04
  Select FMA                                                             GLIA           02/28/05
  Select the GLIA Staff                                                  GLIA           01131/05




                                                   57

Attachment 1

                 Great Lakes Initiative on HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project


-General                               Procurement Plan
1.

1.     Project information: Recipient of the Grant: GLIA: Project Name: GLIA Support
Project; Project IDNo: P080413; Grant No: [Non Available]; ProjectImplementing Agency
(PIA): GLIA Executive Secretariat.

1.     Bank's approvalDate of the procurement Plan: Oct 14,2004
2.     Date of General Procurement Notice: To bepublished inNovember 2004
3.     Period coveredby this procurement plan: Sept 2004 -March2006

IL Goods and Worksand non-consultinp services.

1.     Prior Review Threshold: ProcurementDecisions subject to Prior Reviewby the
Bank as stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines for Procurement:

 Ref         Procurement Method            Prior Review Threshold                  Comments
 No
 1.    ICB and LIB(Goods)                >USD250,000
 2.    NCB (Goods)                       <USD250,000                       Only the first 3 contracts
 3.    ICB (Works)                       Not Applicable                    NoICBworks expected
 4.    NCB (Works)                       Not Audicable                     N o NCB works exuected

2.     Proposed Procedures for CDD Components (as per paragraph. 3.17 of the
Guidelines:Accordingto paragraph3.17 andthe Operations Manual approved by the
Bank.

3.     Referenceto Operations Manual: See Operations Manual, Section IVon
procurement and annexes (Volume 11).

4.     Any Other SpecialProcurement Arrangements: None

5.     Procurement Packages with Methods and TimeSchedule
       L i s t the packages, which require Bank's prior review first, and then the other
       packages. See also GLIA SimplifiedProcurement PlanV 2

 1 1 1             2              3           4             5           6           7            8

  Ref          Contract       Estimated  Procurement Prequalifi      Domestic    Review      Expected
  No       (Description)        cost        Method        cation    Preference   by Bank    Bid-Opening
                                                         (yesho)      (yesho)    (Prior /      Date
                                                                                   Post)
  1    10 Vehicles             400,000     IAPSO           N o          No        Prior      0312005
  2    Office                  100,000      N C B          N o          No        Prior      0512005
       Equipment &
       Computers




                                               58

 111. Selection of Consultants

1.        Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as
statedinAppendix 1to the GuidelinesSelection andEmployment of Consultants:

   No    I                                                         1
   1. 1       Selection Method            Prior Review Threshold              Comments
          OCBS
           .                           11>USD100.000
   2.     Single Source (Firms)          >USD 10,000
   3.     IndividualConsultants          >USD 50,000

2.        Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for
services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of
national consultants (GLIA Member States) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7
o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

3.        Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: None

4.        Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule

I   l
I                                                      A          5           6             7
  Ref DescriptionofAssignment
       Il            2
                                     Estimated    Selection   Review     Expected    Comments
  N o                                cost $US     Method      by Bank    Proposals
                                                              (Prior I   Submission
                                                              Post)      Date

                                         250,000    QCBS        Prior      12/2004

                                         450,000    QCBS        Prior
         (Networks Management)
   3     Intermediary Institutions       500,000    QCBS        Prior     0112005


                                         40,000       IC        Prior     0512005

   5     Monitoring& Evaluation          100,000    QCBS        Prior     06/2005
   6  I Management
         MedicalWaste                     50,000      IC        Prior     0512005

   7 1
I        External Financial Auditor       60,000    QCBS        Prior      1212004 I
   8  I  ProcurementAuditor               10.000      I C        Post     05/2006 I              II




                                                59

IV. Implementing Agencv Capacitv Buildinp Activities with TimeSchedule




 N o    ExpectedoutcomeI                Estimated    Estimated  Start Date Comments
        Activity Description            cost         Duration
 1      Hands-ontrainingofthe GLIA      Includein 1year         April
        ProcurementOfficerandother      the                     2005
        stakeholdersby the Fiduciary    contract
        ManagementAgency.




                                        60

                        Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
        AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeon HIV/AIDS(GLIA) SupportProject

General:

Disruption in the social and human capital accumulation process, resulting in the loss in
domestic savings, is the essence o f what causes HIV/AIDS to adversely affect the economic
development process. War, violence, social and political changes, social norms, extensive
migration (for various reasons other than economic efficiency), sex inequality are among the
major factors in the Great Lakes Region contributing to high rates o f HIV/AIDS infection.
These highrates o f infection reduce economic growth and the capacity o f society to provide
services, and this in turn accelerates the numbers o f people infected. The limited resources
available to Governments and civil society to finance health and other services are of
necessity reallocated from other priority programs to HIV/AIDS, thus reducing economic
efficiency and compromising prospects for the region to improve. Highmorbidity results in
extensive labor absenteeism at all levels, coupled with premature mortality, translates into
significant losses inlabor productivity.

Currently while the rates are high in the Great Lakes, they do not approach the levels o f
countries in Southern Africa. Thus there i s still time to make key investments before the
epidemic grows exponentially. What i s known is that the most cost effective investments are
those made before the virus is out o f control and the costs of care and treatment overwhelm
the region even beyond its current state. Each GLIA country i s making that investment inits
national program. Because o f the mobility and volatility o f populations in the region, these
investment can be compromised or at the very least less effective, unless there i s some
regional cohesion.

Economic Benefits:

The GLIA Support Project will generate direct benefits to: a) those populations in selected
refugee camps, affected surrounding areas, and returnees in terms o f reduced HIV/AIDS
prevalence and heightened awareness o f ways to avoid contracting the virus; b) long-haul
truckers and associated individuals who utilize the selected health facilities and knowledge
rooms and who are also expected to have reduced rates o f infection; and c) strengthened
PLWHA networks which will allow these vulnerable groups to better support their
constituencies.

Indirect benefits are expected for all GLIA populations as a result o f improved and more
effective HIV/AIDS and related health policies, protocols, and service delivery. This will
occur as good practices in one GLIA country are shared with others, from information
exchange and harmonization o f approaches, and knowledge generated from GLIA financed
studies and surveys which are customized to benefit the Great Lakes region. The underlying
premise o f GLIA is that good ideas will be integrated into national AIDS programs, and vice
versa. Benefits will also be incurred for those refugee populations served by UNHCR as
UNHCR adopts service delivery lessons learned in GLIA selected sites and applies them
elsewhere inthe regionandbeyond.




                                              61

Financial Benefits:

Over its four year implementation period GLIA resources will reach populations in each o f
the six GLIA countries. The goal is that they more efficiently address HIV/AIDS prevention,
care, treatment and mitigation in refugee populations and surrounding areas, that transport
sector and PLHWA networks aie strengthened intheir capacity to manage resources, and that
the health sector in each GLIA country draws on collective knowledge in such areas as drug
policies and procurement. It i s expected that GLIA resources invested in the basic GLIA
institutional infrastructure will be leveragedby contributions from other donors, a significant
multiplier affect. Finally, the GLIA Support Project will make a substantial investment inthe
M&Esystem. Itincludes program, biological and behavioral aspects. The monitoring should
produce sound information on which activities are effective and should be scaled-up, and
which are not andneedto be modified or discontinued.




                                              62

                              Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues
          AFRICA: Great LakesInitiativeon HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project

This Project has triggered two safeguard policies, namely, OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment, and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The key issues that were identifiedunder
this Project include medical waste management at health care facilities and land acquisition
in the event that the construction or rehabilitation of facilities should be required in the
context o f GLIA activities. Since these activities have not yet been identified, it i s not
possible to assess their potential environmental and social impacts at this time. Therefore, the
Project has prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a
Policy Framework for Compensation(PFC) to provide guidance for environmental and social
management duringimplementation o f the Project.

As part o f the ESMF, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP - Annex 5) has been
prepared for the GLIA Project to ensure efficient implementation. The EMP as well as other
relevant sections o f the ESMF and PFC have been included inthe Operations Manual o f the
GLIA Project.

OP4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment

The ESMF constitutes and environmental and social screening process which will enable
project implementers to identify, assess and mitigate potential impacts, including medical
waste, at the planning stage. Potential environmental impacts include soil and water
pollution, loss of vegetation, air pollutionand soil erosion. Iti s envisagedthat the ESMFwill
be implemented in close coordination between the GLIA Focal Points and members o f the
proposedConsultative Group (CG).

The ESMF has beenpreparedbecause (i) GLIA countries do not have an environmental
                                            most
and social screening process that would allow project implementers to identify, assess and
mitigate environmental and social impacts related to small-scale activities requiring
appropriate mitigation; and (ii)  individual GLIA activities cannot be defined at this time, and,
hence, their potential environmental and social impacts will have to be identified, assessed
and mitigated at the planning stage o f future GLIA activities. Therefore, the Project will use
an environmental and social screening process that i s consistent with the Bank's Operational
Policy4.01 Environmental Assessment.

The Screening Process: Chapter 10 of the ESMF describes the environmental and social
screening process (steps 1-7) leading to the identification and application o f the appropriate
level of environmental work which could range from the need to carry out Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIAs), to the application o f simple mitigation measures as
recommendedinAnnex 2, to no requirements for environmental work. The screeningprocess
will also identify potential social impacts due to land acquisition and will refer the
implementers to the Policy Framework for Compensation (PFC) which has been prepared as
a separate document for the Project.

The screening process will be applied by Civil Engineers in consultation with the relevant
local authorities, particularly those responsible for environmental issues, and potentially
affected persons at the planning and design stage o f the facilities. This approach will ensure
that all relevant technical, environmental and social aspects are addressed appropriately early
on. Subsequently, the screening results and proposed mitigation measures, along with copies




                                              63

the CG - will sendthe documents to the national agency responsible for environment for their
o f the facilities plans, will be submitted to the GLIA Focal Point who - with assistance from

review and approval.

The ConsultativeGroup (CG): Ithas beenproposed to form a Consultative Group (CG) that
would support the GLIA Focal Points (FPs) in the implementation o f the ESMF, and, as
required, the implementation o f the PFC. Given the urgency o f HIV/AIDS in the region, it
appears that this would be the most cost-effective approach to ensure sustainable
environmental and social management of GLIA activities. The membership o f the CG is
expected to consist o f representatives from the Ministries o f Environment, Transport, Land
and Settlement, and Health and, where appropriate, the National Environmental Management
Agencies. Coordination between the GLIA FPs and relevant members o f the CGs would take
place as follows: In the case o f review and approval o f screening results or EIA reports, the
CG member from the Ministry o f Environment would assist the GLIA Focal Point in
identifying the office responsible for this activity, or, if qualified, the CG member o f the
MinistryofEnvironment could carry out the review andclearance ofthe documents.

Medical WasteManagement: Unsafe medical waste management i s a major problem in all
GLIA countries. The current practice o fdisposing of medical waste -untreated, unsorted-in
open public waste dumps or in unlined pits in the grounds near the health care facilities
contributes to groundwater and soil pollution. Furthermore, the unsafe, uncoordinated use o f
incinerators contributes to air pollution as well as ground water and soil pollution as a result
o f the disposal o f incompletely burned medical waste. Ithas been recommended that that safe
medical waste management, including incineration, be among the topics to be discussed
duringworkshops that will be supported bythe Project.

There i s a limited understanding o f the negative health impacts that result from unsafe
handling at the source, storage, transport and final disposal at open dump sites. The situation
i s further exacerbated by the tendency inGLIA countries to view incineration as the preferred
option for medical waste disposal. This approach should be reconsidered, and viable
alternatives should be analyzed and discussed before decisions are made to purchase
incinerators. This issue should also be discussed during workshops that will be organized
under the Project.

Consultations: The ESMF has been prepared in consultation with government
representatives infive GLIA countries. Due to unforeseen circumstances, consultations could
not be carried out inthe Democratic Republic o f the Congo. Instead, the Project had to rely
on information contained in existing project documents located at the Bank's Infoshop. The
discussions focused on the status o f policies, legislation and regulations for environmental
and social management; land issues; the need for improved facilities at hotspots; inter-
ministerial cooperation; the importance .of safe medical waste management; ongoing in-
country efforts to address HIV/AIDS; and to develop important policies and guidelines
designed to improve public health.

The main concerns raised in these discussions focused on the importance o f safe medical
waste management, capacity building for medical waste management, support for policy
development; and the urgent need to address HIV/AIDS issues in the transport corridors o f
the countries. There appeared to be less concern about the negative environmental and social
impacts due to the incomplete incineration o f medical waste. This point needs to be addressed
carefully duringimplementation o f the Project.




                                                 64

Environmental Management Plan (EMP): The EMP outlines institutional responsibilities
for the implementation o f mitigation measures, the monitoring o f their implementation, time
horizons and cost estimates to carry out these responsibilities. The EMP also recommends the
implementation o f parts o f the National Medical Waste Management Plans, particularly with
regard to the training o f health care staff, incountries where they exist, and recommends the
preparation o f rapid assessments in countries where such plans do not exist. The EMP
proposes that workshops be organized to analyze and discuss the requirements for safe
medical waste management, thereby buildingcapacity inthis regard inGLIA countries.
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement

OP 4.12 has beentriggered because there i s a chance - albeit a limited one -that some GLIA
activities will require the construction or rehabilitation o f facilities, particularly health care
facilities. As a result, potential social impacts may be due to land acquisition.

To address issues related to land acquisition, for example, loss o f livelihoods or loss of
shelter, the Project has prepared a Policy Framework for Compensation (PFC). The document
clearly states that (a) involuntary resettlement as defined inOP 4.12 should be avoided where
feasible, or minimized, exploring all viable alternative project designs; and (b) affected
people will be provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement costs for
losses o f assets, including impacts on livelihoods, attributable directly to the Project.
Compensation will be provided prior to the commencement o f construction activities
triggering OP 4.12. The PFC outlines the steps to be taken in preparing an abbreviated
resettlement actiodcompensation plan as well as the requirements for a full resettlement
action plan.

The PFC takes into account the fact that six countries are participating inthe Project. Thus, it
has been agreed that the GLIA Secretariat through the GLIA Country Focal Point would
ensure that the implementation o f the proposed PFC will be consistent with the national laws
o f the six GLIA countries, and where these laws do not cover certain individuals or groups o f
affectedpeople, the GLIA Secretariat through the GLIA Country Focal Point will ensure that
the provisions outlined in OP 4.12 will apply - as appropriate - to these individuals and
groups o f affected people. The GLIA Secretariat through the GLIA Country Focal Point
would also ensure that the appropriate steps are taken during project implementation to
prepare and implement resettlement plans, ifrequired.




                                                 65

                                 Annex 11:ProjectSupervision
         AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeonHIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project

Project implementationwill require intensive supervision, especially during its start-up phase,
given the complex and pioneering nature o f this cross-border multisectoral operation, and,
creation o f the first formal HIV/AIDS regional organization focused on HIV/AIDS.
Implementation across the six GLIA countries will involve multiple stakeholders including:
The public sector (multiple actors), the private sector, and non-governmental implementing
agencies; UNagencies; civil society and community-based organizations. Experience with
HIV/AIDS programs varies considerably but most stakeholders will not have worked
together in this type o f operation, nor familiar with sub-regional objectives. This
implementation approachis new to the six countries, as well as to the implementing partners,
and IDA. As mentioned, the range o f activities include refugees and surrounding areas (and
coordination between them), transport and PLWA networks, health sector collaboration.
While linked, each pose different challenges in terms o f translating concept to
implementation. While Bank TTLs in GLIA countries will be asked from time-to-time to
assist, given the nature o f GLIA, the field-based TTL will be expectedto be inregular contact
with the Kigali-based Secretariat, visit GLIA countries from time-to-time, and participate in
selected technical workshops and meetings.

With regardto GLIA, the institution, its Council of Ministers (CM) and Executive Committee
(EC) were created recently. Responsibility for project management and coordination will be
primarily the GLIA Secretariat's mandate working inclose coordination with GLIA Country
Focal Points, each o f whom will be chiefly responsible for integrating regional considerations
into national AIDS programs, and vice versa. Participation at key GLIA Executive
Committee and Council o f Ministers meetings will be appropriate and expected.

Core fiduciary responsibilities will require regular support and assessment during the initial
launch and supervision phase (and thereafter). Of particular emphasis are procurement of
services    and   goods,     financial   management,     monitoring    and    evaluation,   and
implementatiodservice delivery. Inasmuch as GLIA has basically adopted World Bank
procurement rules and will, from its inception, begin with the FMR approach, the Bank i s
well positioned to supervise and assist ingetting GLIA activities off to a successful start.

Multiple skills for supervision will be needed on a regular basis while others will be required
on an ad hoc basis. It i s therefore proposedto establish a core supervision team, which would
be complemented by technical specialists, as deemed necessary. The core supervision team
will operate so as to respondto Project needs, with support providedon an individual basis or
duringconventional supervision missions, comprised of a team o f experts. The core team will
need to cumulatively conduct the equivalent o f three large-scale supervision missions
annually (comprising up to 8 staff), to cover the main issues to be addressed. Technical
experts will provide assistance periodically, as it may be required. Bank supervision will be
primarily shared through the field-based and HQ-based GLIA Co-Task Team Leaders
(GLINTTLs) working in coordination with World Bank Country Office Staff inthe GLIA
countries, and supported by Washington staff. GLINTTL will be responsible for following
GLIA performance, providing regular reporting, and maintaining regular contact with the
GLIA Secretariat core professionals and the main implementing entities (such as UNHCR),
and participate in GLIA workshops and institutional meetings to the extend possible. The
GLINTTLs will also work with the national MAP TTLs for the GLIA countries, and on
request participate inmissions where GLIA coordination i s o f relevance.




                                                66

Core supervision (whether throughjoint missions or separate1y)i.s to include the following:
GLIA Co-Team Leaders, Health Specialists, Community Developmenthletworking
Specialist, Post Conflict/Refugee Specialist, FinancialManagement Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, M&E Specialist. Technical experts would include, as needed: Bank Legal
Counsel; sector specialists (e.g. health, gender, anthropologists/ social scientists, transport
specialists, infrastructure, private sector); Economists; and communication specialists. Every
effort will be made to take advantage o f Bank specialists coming to the regionfor other
purposes to add GLIA to their missions.

To effectively accomplish the above tasks for the first fiscal year, given that formal
supervision will commence only duringthe second half of the fiscal year $175,000 will need
to be budgeted to allow for inter-country travel costs, supervision in GLIA countries, and a
broader mix o f specialists for supervision than i s the case in other projects. Thereafter, the
annual minimum budget required will be $250,000 to support the equivalent o f three
supervision missions per year, as well as IDA participation inthe meetings o f the Council of
Ministers and Executive Committee. Set forth below are estimates o f the equivalent o f three
supervision missions per project year.

Supervision Plan
Total Estimated Staff Weeks per fiscal year:           50

Core Team:                                             34

        Co-Team Leaders (Field):
        CO-TTL(HQs):
        Health Specialists:
        Community Development:
        Networking Specialist:
        Post Conflict/Refugee Specialist:
        Financial Management Specialist:
        Procurement Specialist:
        M&ESpecialist:

Technical experts:                                     16

        Transport                                      1
        Infrastructure                                 1
        private sector)                                1
        Economist                                      1
        Communication specialists                      2
        Gender Specialists                             2
        Anthropologists/Social scientists              2
        Lawyer                                         2
        Environmental Specialist                       2
        Others                                         2




                                                67

This level o f supervision budget shouldbe continued untilthe mid-term review, at which
time the adequacy of this approach and the amount should be reviewed and increased, if
necessary.

Projecttimetable




Date
Planned Closing Date              03/01/09




                                             68

                           Annex 12: ProjectPreparation

a. Key InstitutionsResponsiblefor ProjectPreparation:

   1. UNAIDS
   2. UNHCR
   3, GLIA Executive Committee and Secretariat
   4. GLIA National AIDS Programs
   5. Rwanda MAPProject Management Unit (CNLS)

b. EstimatedProjectPreparationand SupervisionCosts

   6. Bank funds expended to date onproject preparation. Total funding, expenses to date
       and commitments are shown inthe table below:



I                   I           I               I                             I
                        Total     Expensedas                     Total (exp. +
                       Funding      of 9/14/04    Commitments     comm.)           Balance
PHRD Grant (TF052677)    555,775         262,933        127,601        390,534          165,241
GenderTF (TF052162)      50,000            14,221                       14,221          35,779
TF ESSD (TF053609)      200,000          134,213        59,014         I93,228           6,772
BB (~080413 LEN)
            -                            102,911                       102,911        (102,911)
      Total             805,775          514,278        I86,616        700,894          104,881




   7. Estimated annual supervision cost: U S $250,000




                                           69

 c. BankStaffandConsultants:

 Name                            Title                                 Unit




 Pamphile Kantabaze              TTL, Senior Operations Officer        AFTH3
 Richard M. Seifman              CO-TTL                                 AFTHV
 Sameena Dost                    Counsel                                LEGAF
 Sean Bradley                                Development               AFTSQ
1Seraohine Nasbimana           II Sr. Social Develonment Specialist
                                 Team Assistant                       I AFMBI    I
 Stephen J. Brushett              Sr. Transport Specialist              AFTTR
 TurtoTurtiain                   Consultant (Operations Manual)


 d. MAP Task Team Leaders
 Albertus Voetberg                Kenya: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response     AFTHV
                                  Project

 Emmanuel Malangalila             Tanzania : Multi-Sectoral AIDS        AFTH1
                                 Project

 Michael Azefor                   Burundi:Mu1tisectoral HIV/AIDS        AFTH3
                                  Control & Orphans Project

 Miriam Schneidman               Rwanda: Multi-Country HIV/AIDS       I AFTH3
                                  Project
 Peter Okwero                     Uganda: HIV/AIDS Control Project      AFTH1

 Suzanne Piriou-Sal1              DRC :Multi-Sectoral HN/AIDS           AFTS4
                                  Project




                                      70

e. UNAIDS and UNHCRPartners

Therese Juncker                 UNAIDS
Luc Barriere                    UNAIDS
Paul Spiegel                   UNHCR
Dieudonne Yiwaza                UNHCR




                              71

                   Annex 13: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
   AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeon HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project

Section I:ProiectImplementationPlan

             1. OperationsManual andAnnexes
             2. FirstYear AnnualPlan (Operations Manual, Volume 3)
             3. PPF
             4. Project ProcurementPlan(18 months)

Section 11:Bank StaffAssessment

             1. PCNdatedJuly 10, 2003
             2. QER MinutesdatedAugust 10,2004
             3. BTOR datedAugust 16,2004
             4. PAD


Section 111:Other Documents

             1. GLIA Convention EnglisWFrenchversion
             2. Council ofMinisters Decision Briefs
             3. Declaration ofPrinciples and draft Institutional Framework (May
             2003)
             4. Memorandum ofUnderstanding GLIAAJNHCR
             5. PHRD studiesheports
             6. Technical and Operational workshop reports (Kigali and Kinshasa)
             7. Sessions ofthe Council of Ministers
             8. CCISD MissionReport
             9. Aide Memoire dated August 17, 2004
             10.UNHCR Tool for Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA
             Action Plans
             11. Legal and Institutional Framework FieldVisit (January-February
             2004)
             12. Environment and SocialManagement Framework
             13. PolicyFramework for Compensation




                                         72

                                          Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits
                    AFRICA: Great LakesInitiativeonHIV/ALDS(GLIA) Support Project
                                                                                                                            Difference between
                                                                                                                            expectedandactual
                                                                Original Amount inUS$ Millions                                 disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA        SF      GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig.    Frm. Rev'd
PO74850     2004   3W HIVIAIDS for Abidjan Lagos TRNS.          0.00        0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00     16.74      -1.24       0.00
PO74525     2004   2[3W] WAEMU Capital Markets                  0.00       96.39     0.00     0.00       0.00     97.02      0.00        0.00
                   Development
PO69258     2004   [3S] SouthemAfrica Power Market (APL1)       0.00     178.60      0.00     0.00       0.00    192.56      0.00        0.00
PO72881     2003   [3T] BEAC RegionalPayment System             0.00       14.50     0.00     0.00       0.00     15.61       1.80       0.00
PO70073     2003   2Nile TransboundaryEnvironmentalAction       0.00        0.00     0.00     8.00       0.00      7.65      0.17        0.00
PO63683     2001   [3E] REGIONAL TRADE                          0.00        5.00     0.00     0.00       0.00      0.68       0.20       0.00
                   FACILITATION PROJECT
PO36037      1999  West. Ind.Ocean IslandsOil Spill Cont.       0.00        0.00     0.00     3.15       0.00      0.00       3.55       0.00
POOOOOI      1996  COMM CONSERV & WILDL                         0.00        0.00     0.00     4.40       0.03      0.67       1.65       0.00
                                                       Total:   0.00     294.49      0.00     15.55      0.03    330.93       6.13       0.00


                                                                AFRICA
                                                         STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                      Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                Committed                                     Disbursed

                                                               IFC                                          IFC
        FY Approval   Company                       Loan      Equity        Quasi     Partic.  Loan         Equity      Quasi     Partic.
        1999          AIF                           0.00       72.78           0.00    0.00       0.00       31.77      0.00        0.00
        1999          AIF (Mgmt)                    0.00        0.20           0.00    0.00       0.00       0.10       0.00        0.00
        2003          AIFH                          0.00       20.00           0.00    0.00       0.00       2.00       0.00        0.00
        2001          AfrbnkCorp                    0.00        0.00           3.00    0.00       0.00       0.00        3.00       0.00
        1993          Africa Fund                   0.00        7.50           0.00    0.00       0.00       7.50        0.00       0.00
        2002          Africap                       0.00        2.00           0.00    0.00       0.00       0.77        0.00       0.00
        1997199       Aminex                        0.00        0.12           0.00    0.00       0.00       0.12        0.00       0.00
        2000101       Celtel                        0.00        0.00        10.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       10.00       0.00
                      EnergyAfr Ltd                 0.00       38.02           0.00    0.00       0.00       38.02       0.00       0.00
        2002          MTNN                          85.00      15.00           0.00    0.00       19.09      14.56       0.00       0.00
        2002          Osprey                        0.00        0.25           0.00    0.00       0.00       0.25        0.00       0.00
       2001           PAIP                          0.00       15.00           0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
        2002          SABCO                         22.00      10.00           0.00    0.00       0.00       10.00       0.00       0.00
        2001104       TV Africa                     0.00        0.22           0.00    0.00       0.00       0.17        0.00       0.00
                                 Totalportfilio:    107.00    181.09        13.00      0.00       19.09     105.26      13.00       0.00


                                                                        ~    ~~~


                                                                                 ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                       FY Approval     Company                             Loan        Equity      Quasi         Partic.
                       1999            AIF                               0.00           0.03         0.00        0.00
                       2003            African Lakes                     0.00           0.0 1        0.00        0.00
                       2001            MACS                              0.00           0.00         0.00        0.04
                       2001            PAIP                              0.00           0.04         0.00        0.00
                                           Total pendingcommittment:        0.00        0.08         0.00        0.04




                                                                     73

               Annex 15: Countryat a Glance
AFRICA: GreatLakesInitiativeon HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project




                                    Su6-
                                 Suhoran
                         Burundi  blrica

                            72        m    2.310              Lllocnpartrllr):
                            on
                            1M        4w     4EO
                                      547   1*NB


                             18       23      1.9
                            Yd        24     2.3



                             r i      ,u,     30
                             42       Ut3     w
                            123       103     62
                             45               44
                             78       i       '15
                             M        36      &W
                             Ti       W       m
                             80       Ea      p3
                             E2       Bu      &


                           1993     2ua2    1001
                           a94      0.72    R61    Economic ratid

                            16 3      79     9.T
                            Qd        tll    R1
                            4.J      -4.6    -a2
                                      17     G1
                   -118     8 d      -66
                    0.J     13      167c
                                      nt3
                   23.4   113 1
                    14.5   3E.d      388
                                  i 104.4a
                                    i a
                           loa;,    1003

                            3 1      -1Q
                            1.T      -29
                            Ed       laQ


                                    2002

                                     493
                                     184

                                     313
                                    '317
                                     128
                                     1PIE(

                                    2002

                                      B9
                                     283

                                      &6
                                     126
                                      a9
                                      68
                                    226




                                74

PRICES ond GUVERYMENTFINMCE       is63 1993      zoo2


                                    82     g;i    I 6
                                    8A     7 1   12.9



                                   133   21a     194
                                   0SA3   39
                                          43     .1.2i
                                                  1

TRADE
                                  lEBJ   1493   2002

                                    62     74     67
                                    70     I S    "d
                                     2       g            16
                                     2       9     151     1
                                   i8(   210     im      191   jJf.'
                                    15     iET    12      11
                                    23                             I
                                    Ea     a      22      23
                                           XI     ea      T1     (I

                                    P      E;I    ED
                                    81     91     w
                                   116     70     a

                                  la3 1993      2aaz

                                    Kl     p8     &1
                                   26%           1%
                                   if0   .z815
                                         i9T     -BR
                                     8    .l0    .10
                                                  E2
                                  .123    -m     -47
                                   147     p3     57
                                   .ia      0    .la


                                  93.0  m e     B B f 1mpi

EXTERHALDEBIand RESOURCE F L U M
                                  1933  1P83    2002    2a33

                                  333  iu;! 1
                                     0      0   zcu0
                                   &?    "3%     W8
Tuldhbt5cnicc                       15    33      23
 BUD                                 a      0      D
 D A                                 1      5     i G

                                   45    112     119
                                   En     FA      23
                                    13     "1     3
                                     3      1      0
                                     0      0      0                   c:12

                                    18     10     93
                                   21     ?D      I
                                     0      2     11
                                   21             25
                                     1    353      4
                                   Z?     31      21




                                                  75

                             Sub
                COIIRO.   ballsran
              DNII. Rep.   mlca

                    511       4m
                               m    2,310
                     1I O            450
                     5 1      517   1.WE


                     2 1       23     19
                     20        24     2 3



                      3.2       36    30
                      45        46    58
                     129      1W      82
                      31              44
                      45        56    75
                               31i    39
                      33       8?     92
                      52       yi     99
                      47       eo     65


         1983      1999      20a2
         114        io?        57
          93         18        71   137
         102        113       184   198      rr3de
          8.3        40        4 0    4 0
          5.1       -4 2       78   112
         -3.5       -4 9      -27
          09         a1        29
         485      1053      16659
         137         1 1       29
                            1391
                            w38

198383 1%2-03      2902      2803

   -2 9  -24         85        5.0
   -55   - 4 6       0 4       25
   -43    94



        1'183      1993      ZOa2   2m3

         331        51 3      571   587
         258        1BY       121   125
         138         Et6       5.2    5 3
         411        3 2 3     308   188
         842       BfjB       823
          75        154        &?
         173         31       115   243




                             76

 1983    19%       2OCU                                              I
       1S & Y       100
 PR2   l b 2 4      22  r


                      R1
                      10
                     -20


 1983    1945      ZDCQ

         1 1 4 4   1,013
                     5G7
           151       173
             93      sf6
                     130


                      43
           4c4




 1913    199s      2OCU

1W7     12x3       1.175    1429  I   :
1m 1,0116          1,447
 -1 18     211      4  n
 -315    639       -2%
   58    4 18        411
 .m      dB        -153
  291      514    io,?zi
   Is        I4   10,168      -20     8 .
                                     1
  2%        B         Ts       gP
%E-11 251E.j       3485     4 c6.3


 1983    199s      zom      2009      Cmpavilion of 20Qld~br[US$mdl.t
5336   11,273     1omg    10,563
   e3       83         0
 255    1242       1.504
 247        %3        51
   14                132
    2        a1      221

   n        79         0
 125        u        1c7
   15        a         0
 1%                    0
    0        0         0


   35         4     w
   93       48      410
    g         3      2 1G
   3i       d5       19.1
    7         6      137
   27       40        57




                         77

                          5Llb
                      5aiiaraii   cow-
               ken'ta   Africa  income

                32 2       m3     2,310

                12 a
                 du3       UEXl    450
                           347    1,aJB


                 23        23       1 9
                 2 7       24       2 3


                  55
                  ?8        35      30
                  45        48      5B
                  a
                  TI       1L13     82
                                    44
                  6T        58      75
                   15       35      39
                  I a7              92
                  97        PI      99
                  Kl        a7      as


         1983   199s     2002     2038
           6 0   5.8      122      14 3
         209    176       134      129
         259    3B.9      2B9      14 9
         187    22 8      122       a 2
         165    205       isa      128
          -4 4   29        24      -a 2
           25    98        as       0 7
         SO 7  1296       sa0      d? 2
         32d    Xt.1      1El      158
                          3G7      31 2
                        1352      1234

198393 199503   2302     2603   23DS.07

   4.1     1.9   11        18       3 1
   OB     -Oa   -12       -ad       1 1
   71      OB    28        89       7 6



         1983   1991     2002     2033           d tmwmmtaridGDPfi)

         342    315       169      158   '*Gravth                   I
         1Yd    169       190      196   5
         118    160       180      136
         4BA    518       841     B7      0
         829    690       687      739   4




          4 Y    17       -90       0 4 I
          4 0    5.5       4 3      4 8
           13    20       -97       3 0
          72     31      .120       B O




                       78

PRICES anii GOVERNMENT FIHMCE
                                      1985    1993     200.2


                                       150     480        23
                                       118     257        K4



                                       24 6
                                         oa    E 5      z i a
                                                 1 3     .4 1
                                        .53     .1 0    .E5

TRADE
                                      1983    1983     ZOM

                                        sQ    1,1m    2,1139
                                        1W       62        33
                                        232     lT7        81
                                        113     281      I G i
                                      1,331   1,UWi   2,R2
                                        123      75      148
                                        5l5     407     O ) T
                                        2D1     313      751
                                         92      80        E 4
                                         Fw
                                         w       53      103
                                                 93        91


                                      1883    1993     2002

                                      1,sa   1.238    3.21
                                      I?%?   1.953    3,mI
                                      -135     2e6     .14Y
                                      -1OY    -360     -136
                                         PJ    241       E81
                                      -2a       1 I      299
                                        481     157    -27r
                                      -222    -323       -21                                              f
                                        4w                                                               1
                                               669     1,CE?    1,480
                                       135             787      76.2

EXTERHAL DEBT dlld REBUUR CE FLOWIT,
                                      1963    1985     200.2    2003
                                                                       Cunpmison of 2003 dobliUS6mill.j
                                      3.623  till 6.112                                                   I
                                       EM      5E6         13
                                       331   1,631    2,447
                                       515     a32       536
                                         53     1%         13
                                          3      19        03


                                          0      )%r       m
                                        191     133        31
                                         fr3    -40      -&T
                                          4       2
                                          0       0        0
                                                                     I
                                         5G      a          a
                                       123     2%         I
                                         18     103        56
                                       1M       119        12
                                         5%      67        19
                                         151     %?        .T




                                                           79

                                     Sub
POVERTYand Sc'ClAL                 Saharan    LO#-
                           Rwanda   m l r a Income

                               a3     7co     2.310
                              22Q     493      450
                               18     347     1,mB


                               26      23       1 9
                               BO      24       2 3



                                14      I 30
                               40       48      5B
                              118
                               ac     1133      82
                                                44
                               d l      58      75
                               31       3s      39
                                       a7
                              iia
                              117               92
                                       41       99
                              116      80       85


                             1893    2002     2w5
                               20      17       l e
                              167     190      20 2
                               52      77       8 6
                               1 4     14       11
                               57     119      119
                             .11 0    -74     -11 81
                              0 2      a4
                             4&l      818
                             1E47     158
                                      402
                                     4876

                             a302    zoo3   200347

                              4 4      1 2      8 0
                              6 3      21       $ 8
                              -4 1     BO       3 1



                      1883   1999    2002     2M?.

                      382    I%?419            d l G
                      241     183     216      21 9
                      156     115     113      113
                      377    479      3Ebi     a s
                      839    845      867      m i
                      118     143     120      138
                      208    ,335     254      2?7




                      -2 0             79       8 5
                      -30              50
                       36              18       45 42
                       21              90       1 4
                       B.l            112      18B




                                      80

1983   1993   2002                1
  C6    &6      2 5   11 1
  24   190     -1 1   4 8



       155
        a2    21 1   330
                5'3   9 5
       a 2     -24    0.5


1983  1993   20M

 lffi   63      GI
        38      23
        19      24
         ?      21
       348     Mil
        E!      E6
        36      74
        R       53
        6       E?
        R2      9t
        TO      G9


1983  1993   20M

 133   io2     133
 2%    4w      4M
-101  -3m     - a 3
   4   -15     .19
 118   102     1%
 -50  -218    -121
  3    iM      15T
  42    31     -33         I'%    t
94 3  1443   4m.3


1983  1993   2002

241    909   1,435
  0      0       0
 E(5   448    a%
  9     P       22
  0      5       0
   1     u       2


 ffi   214    1hi
 3      5Q      73
  -1     0       0
 11      0       3
  O      0       a

 D      98    1io
 19     ?a      ?3
  0     3        0
 18     ST      73
   1    3        2
 18     33      71




                  81

                    3 U b
                 Saliarari   Lun'-
                  Africa   Income   DPnlopnnnt diammd'

            350       ?e3
            2W        4MI
            106       !AT


             2 3       23
             2 4       24


             %3
             m         30
             4-r       88
             65       103
             44
             Ea        59
             21        z85
            1c6        I
            109        eo
                       ra
            101


           1999     20M      2MS
                                    Ecommic rrtia'
             4 3      88      10 1
           25 1
            iao      181      18 6
                     17 1     18 3                l'radl
            -2 1     1as
                     116       Y5
             4 9               0 3
    -6D    a 2       -74     -10 0
    DT       2.4      a4       a 3
  104 1    1533      674      74 0
   326     34.2       72       5 2
                     179      1R2
                   1070      1m4

           aW2      2003   a03437

             72       7 1     8 6
             51       48       4 6
             99       sa       1 1



   1983    1991     20M      2023

   514     481       44.r     45.0
   120     158       1BZ      184
    60       7.5      '7.3     7 2
   368     3%3       3B2      B O
   772     as2                                                  us
                     TB8      m.1                     8)  BI P

   138     144        rr@     114
   1c 1    47 7      24.6     11.4

1lMos3.93iW-03      200.2    2cU3

    S T      3.r      so       4 0
     1 1    a5        94      102
   545JY0    50       BO       B e
             4 4      Li2      5 6
    34       54       40       8 6
    2,3     ct4      104      281
    SB       s4      176       ~d
    30       48       39      181




                         82

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FlllQhlCE
                                    1983   1993    2002                                                 I
                                    27 1   253       4.6
                                           24 5      E5



                                     1RJ                    11 4                                  zu
                                     4s      35     110                  a3     Ir6         d l       83
                                            -4 4    -14
                                    .103    a 2     -54     a 0          --&w       mtntu *CPI


TRADE
                                    1883   1993    2002

                                     3?7    411     923
                                     130     I 35
                                      62     7TI     B
                                     wi7
                                      44     52      wl
                                          1,353    1m1
                                      91     58     147
                                     241    101     195
                                     4e*    @a3     7.21
                                      82     73      %
                                      PI    101      72
                                     107     72     132     125  I                    ,                 f

                                    1983  1993     2002

                                     En3    603    1 3 3
                                  1,010   1,017   2,226
                                    .XI$ -1,414    .559
                                     -73  -1 w      -52
                                     3%     am       26
                                    .m -1.115      -724
                                    407   1,OEB    1rx
                                     -14     18    -J71                                                 1
                                            2%    1 ,m    1.978
                                     88  4053     %&2    1.054.3


                                   l W 3  1993     2002    2003
                                                                  Ccrnpaition of20L)3drblrUSbmill]
                                  f'*w S.781     SB14     T.SC12
                                     223    140       B
                                     4%  L75Y    2m
                                     165   111      118
                                      PI     45       3
                                       4     CD      El


                                    lEpj    7%      Em
                                    313     im      1112
                                      21     31     -22
                                             E3     215
                                       0      0       0


                                     4?     341     402
                                     E13    1Ed     170
                                      14     75      40
                                      78     Kl     125
                                      iT     96      21
                                     59      SI     103




                                                    83

Ugarda at ilglance
                    Sllb
                 saliarai
                  mica

           285       4m
                     m
           2M              2.310               uleexp%mq
                            450
            6 2      347   1 oJ8


            37        2.3
            25        2.4


             Js
             12       1
             42       48     58
             Ep9     103     a2
             Ja              41

            Ea
             55       58     75
                      35     3H
            lP        87     92
            130       E4     90
            125       ea     a5


          1993     2oR2    2033
            1 2       89     a 3   Ecommic r a k d

           152       187    20 7
            71       119    123
            1 1       51     B C
            30        ha     11
          "12 3    -13.9   -13s
            16        a2     0 2       IE                        l m w " n t
           81 9     483     a25
           125      220     110
           41 0     1BW     308
          5452     1583    a332
          a m      2003   a0347

            aa       4 7
           a10        i a
             0       -3.3


                                                                            I
    1983  1993     2OCQ           *Grwth of i(-h.nilmwitand GDP fX t         f
    SfB    515      310
     BA    181      2 i B
     57     BO      1aa
    350    354      47s
    a7.i   mi       78.1    m2     i s
    102     aa       155
    136    212      285

  11093 1932103    2OCQ

     35     19        89
     74    110        79
     70    116        83
     56     7&        80
     J i    12       82
     3s     a5        46     84    3
     70     75        9.9   100
     2 1   107      182     -2 3




                      84

1985    199s     20m      2003


         321      -20       5.7  i o
        331       -39      10.1   5

                                   P
                                                             1
          73      122      12.1
         -1 1     -16
        -11 3    -123     -11 3
                           "1 1I        ---mpeamt     -CPI




1983    1993     2ow

         157
           m5      157
                    85
                    ia

         591     1 m 1

           54      1w

           42       26
           E6       83
           44       I 3


1981    1993     :ow      2009

 379     2 1      t87      778     o
 483     653     1.w     1,13
-113    4%       0s       -885        .
-113     -49      -119    -1.31   .i

   La    liX3      161     lgl
-101    -3 frl    615     -E52    i o .

   89    4%       m        485
   TJ    -23      -1TJ    - 1 3   li


         112      MQ       931
      1,2018   I,TSBQ   1,882.8


1PB3    1993     20Q2     ?a03

1,:m   1a 1      ?m      3,938
   0       11        0        0I                 F 2Q
 123   1,267     2m7     2,WI               E 1W

   I 175           1Fa      8B
   0       10        0        0
   2       13       14      20

   m   17aa      1073    441 3
   69    2%        259     m
   -4    -11          3      10
   0               182     120
   0        a4       0        0


 121     221       MQ      315
   33    135       2%      353
    1      12         7      12
   32    123       249     341
    1      11         7       T
   31    112       242     3Jq




                   85


