Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1113 
Project Name 
Great Lakes Initiative on HIV/AIDS (GLIA) Support Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (60%);Other social services (40%) 
Project ID 
P080413 
Borrower(s) 
GREAT LAKES INITIATIVE ON HIV/AIDS 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X ] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 10, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 5, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
December 14, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Migration, commerce, social cohesion and development challenges among ethnic groups have 
historically gone beyond conventional political/national  boundaries in the Great Lakes Region. 
With a population of approximately 158 million, a total land mass of 4,165 thousand square 
kilometers (World Development Report, 2004), and long, porous and unguarded borders between 
countries in the region, addressing HIV/AIDS solely on a country-by-country basis ignores 
regional realities and misses an opportunity to make national programs more effective through 
trans-national cooperation. 
 
Refugee, IDP and returnee populations represent a changing percent
age of the region’s total 
population; however, the cumulative numbers for the region over the last two decades are 
substantial, with UNHCR estimating that currently the number of Great Lakes Region  refugees 
and IDPs is well over 6.5 million, not including returnees. The United Nations Economic 
Commission for Africa (UNECA) estimates that migrant movement from all causes (commerce, 
family visitation, job seeking, education) are in the many millions per year among the six 
countries.   
 
Ministers of Health from the six member countries (Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo-
DRC, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda), with initial support from UNAIDS, launched the 
Great Lakes Initiative on HIV/AIDS (GLIA) in 1998.  A secretariat was created and has 
functioned for nearly five years. There have been pilot testing of cross-border interventions in 
transport and numerous workshops and consultations among the partners. The GLIA countries 
recognize that they need to go beyond these modest efforts to create the critical mass of regional 
programs and policies that can make a difference in their collective effort to stem the HIV/AIDS 
pandemic. Mobile populations, networks of populations which are highly mobile and/or 
represent high risk when mobile (PLWAs),  harmonizing  health policies, programs and services, 
and sharing epidemiological, behavioral and program data, all represent  potentially significant 
mutual benefit. 
Page  2
Great Lakes countries are particularly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic with more than 6 
million people living with HIV/AIDS out of a total of some 25 million in Sub-Saharan Africa 
(UNAIDS, 2004).  It is estimated that more than 3 million children have been orphaned or made 
vulnerable by HIV/AIDS in the GLIA countries. With already high levels of HIV infection in the 
early 1990s, the situation has deteriorated over the past decade with massive displacement of 
populations, resulting from conflicts, genocide, natural disasters and difficult socio-economic 
conditions. Aggregated figures of adults age 15-49 reflect prevalence rates range from 4.1% to 
8.8%. By country  it is Burundi (6.0%); DRC (4.2%); Kenya (6.7%); Rwanda (5.1%); Tanzania 
(8.8%); and Uganda (4.1%) (December 2003 data provided in 2004, UNAIDS).    
 
HIV/AIDS is dramatically fueling the TB epidemic with up to 75 percent of TB patients in some 
countries co-infected. As can be seen from the figure to the right the trend in HIV prevalence in 
Kenya mirrors closely the pattern of new TB cases with roughly a five year lag.  Co-infection is 
a
particularly serious problem amongst displaced populations in the region who are living in 
extremely difficult conditions. It is likely that co-infection rates are relatively high amongst these 
groups which are a major focus of the GLIA operation. Four of the countries in the region 
(Kenya, DRC, Tanzania and Uganda) are amongst the nine highest TB burden countries in sub-
Saharan Africa.   
 
Cross-border service delivery programs and dialogue can contribute to national HIV/AIDS 
efforts. GLIA pilot interventions in the transport sector have shown that it is possible for cross-
border activities to reach major vectors of disease transmission.  Regional workshops hosted by 
GLIA countries such as those on HIV/AIDS care (Rwanda, 2003), refugee, networking and 
M&E (DRC 2004), and legal framework (Tanzania, 2004), can effectively bring governmental, 
nongovernmental organizations, civil society,  pharmaceutical and other private sector parties 
together, to build partnerships.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objectives of the project are to facilitate:  
 
·
Establishment of HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and mitigation programs for mobile 
and vulnerable groups such as refugees, transport sector workers, and highly 
affected/infected  populations in each of the GLIA Member States, and 
·
Enhancement of prospects for coordinated approaches addressing HIV/AIDS prevention, 
care, treatment and mitigation among the GLIA Member States. 
 
The key performance indicators measuring effectiveness of project interventions (in those areas 
where GLIA directly intervenes), will be: (a) a reduction in HIV prevalence in the refugee and 
surrounding populations; (b) a reduction in the number of  infected infants born to HIV infected 
mothers; (c) an increase in the number of youth (aged 15-24) reporting  condom use during 
sexual intercourse with a non-regular partner (adapted UNGASS indicator); (d) improved gender 
sensitivity in the target population; and (e) an increase in the number of youth respondents (aged 
15-24)  who correctly identify ways of preventing  HIV transmission and who reject major 
Page  3
misconceptions about HIV transmissions or prevention (adapted United Nations General 
Assembly Special Session-UNGASS indicator). Annex 3 of the Project Appraisal Document 
(PAD) contains the Results Framework which provides detailed treatment of performance 
indicators. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Each of the six GLIA countries has a national HIV/AIDS strategy and program.  While these 
programs address national concerns they are not well positioned or usually designed to address 
the many cross-border aspects which intersect with national efforts, and which can affect the 
success of such programs. GLIA as an institution was created to “add value to national 
programs”, neither substituting for, nor competing with, these much larger efforts, and this is 
embodied in the signed “Convention Establishing the Great Lakes Initiative on AIDS”.   
 
All GLIA countries have satisfied the basic Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) criteria 
for eligibility, with satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS, a high level 
coordinating body, and willingness to use exceptional implementation arrangements and multiple 
channels. The regional approach builds on this eligibility, complements MAP projects in all 
GLIA countries, and contributes to the effectiveness of the national efforts. 
 
World Bank involvement provides: (a) a broad developmental perspective and understanding as 
to how HIV/AIDS fits into this agenda; (b) experience in over 28 countries in Sub-Saharan 
Africa in designing and implementing programs under the MAP; (c) experience in preparing 
regional multi-country HIV/AIDS-focused efforts, such as the Abidjan/Lagos HIV/AIDS 
Transport Corridor and African Regional Capacity Building Network for HIV/AIDS Prevention, 
Care, and Treatment (ARCAN) projects; (d)  the ability to dialogue with countries which may be 
in defacto conflict with one another, at the highest political and economic levels; and (e) 
experience in subregional multi-donor disarmament, demobilization and reintegration efforts.  
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed IDA Grant of $20.0 million would finance a four-year program. The direct 
beneficiaries are a) refugees, IDPs, returnees, and surrounding area communities at selected sites 
(in every GLIA country), and b) transport and PLWA association members. Indirect 
beneficiaries are those in the Region who gain from better health policies, programs and service 
delivery as a result of cross-fertilization. The four components (detailed in Annex 4 and in 
Operations Manual) are as follows;  
 
Component l: HIV/AIDS support to refugees, affected areas surrounding the refugee 
communities, internally displaced people, returnees (US$8.0 million).
 
Refugee sites and adjacent affected areas represent underserved Great Lakes populations; and 
returnees constitute another potential target population. This component will provide services to 
a
limited number of such populations, and could include the full range of prevention, care, 
treatment and mitigation, principally through provision of services and goods (very little civil 
works, primarily rehabilitation, is envisioned). “Transportability” of  what is learned or done for 
Page  4
refugees,  and “integration” of GLIA-financed activities with the national program will 
determine program content. Activities will be closely monitored and evaluated using linked 
behavioral and biological surveillance surveys and sentinel sites so that if successful GLIA 
countries and donors will support replication. Over the four year period a) UNHCR sites 
(principally refugee camps) are estimated at US$5.0 million, and b) surrounding areas, IDPs, and 
returnees are estimated at US$3.0 million.     
 
Component 2:  Support to HIV/AIDS related networks  (US$3.0 million).
 The transport sector 
and PLWA are two high priority regional groups which have been the subject of  exchanges 
among GLIA countries, conferences, and informal linkages. In the case of transport, GLIA has 
conducted pilot programs (“the Safari Safi” program in 2001-2002). Transport networking would 
focus on a) long-haul workers and those communities and groups associated with them, and b) 
on two principal transmission corridors, namely (i) Mombasa-Nairobi-Kampala-Kigali-
Bujumbura-Bukavu-Goma, and (ii) Dar es Salaam-Dodoma-Kigali-Bujumbura-Bukavu-Goma. It 
is also recognized that lake transport is very important in the Region and can be taken into 
account in due course under the Project. Subregional PLWHA network support would: (i) 
provide important reinforcement of national and under-funded regional advocacy efforts to 
reduce stigma of those infected and affected; and (ii) engage in the sharing and testing of 
PLWHA support practices by NGOs, CBOs, and the private sector for this vulnerable 
population. Regional conferences have created a “regional consciousness” among PLWAs that 
they are not alone, and many cross-country contacts. These need to be consolidated and 
strengthened.  
 
The approach in both instances will be based on a British Petroleum/United Nations Institute for 
Training and Research (BP/UNITAR) methodology (“AIDS Competence”). Existing networks 
will be strengthened and new ones promoted by i) developing the management capacity of the 
networks and selected lead member organizations in  planning, financial management, resource 
mobilization and M&E via the training-of trainers, ii) developing HIV/AIDS learning capacity 
and transfer of knowledge between network members. An intermediary institution(s) will be 
contracted to: i) provide management training to network trainers-of-trainees, ii) train national 
facilitators in techniques of organization self-assessment, knowledge capturing and knowledge 
sharing, iii) assist in piloting knowledge rooms along the transport corridors, and iv) M&E. 
Based on agreed criteria, GLIA Member States have gone through the process of identifying 
those organizations which should be included in the networking pool. 
 
Component 3:  Support to Regional health-sector collaboration (US$3.0 million).
 National  
HIV/AIDS related health-sector information exchange, through which policies and approaches 
can be discussed, and in future coordinated  by and for key health-sector stakeholders,  will result 
in  better use of scarce human and financial resources. Five areas of such concentration have 
been identified: (i) an inventory of effective interventions and sharing of information, (ii) review 
of protocols, materials and training opportunities for prevention and treatment, (iii) information 
exchange on refugee, IDP, returnee HIV/AIDS health-related programs, (iv) transport sector 
HIV/AIDS strategy coordination and piloting of targeted transport packages along two main 
regional roads (at sites identified for the network component intervention), and (v) information 
exchange on drug policies and procurement. 
 
Page  5
Component 4:  GLIA/MAP management, capacity strengthening, monitoring and evaluation, 
and reporting (US$6.0 million)
.
GLIA  will require institutional strengthening so that it can 
coordinate resources made available from all sources, and coordinate regional HIV/AIDS 
approaches. This component covers three activities: (i) administration and management
including support for the core professional staff, the fiduciary management agent, allocations to 
GLIA Country Focal Points, and operating expenses for GLIA , (ii) capacity strengthening and 
policy discussion/technical support,
including fiduciary, management and advocacy training of 
those involved in GLIA which is not addressed under Components 1-3 (such as regional training 
of GLIA Country  Focal Points and national teams), and policy discussion/development/technical 
support for other cross-cutting issues (such as gender considerations in HIV/AIDS mobile 
population programs) and  
(iii) monitoring and evaluation, and reporting,
covering those aspects not financed under 
Components 1-3. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT .00 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
20 
IDA GUARANTEE 
0 
 Total 
20.00 
 
6. Implementation 
 
GLIA is based on a strong sense of partnership among GLIA governments, the UN family, civil 
society, bilateral and multilateral donors, Non-Governmental-Organizations (NGOs), Faith-based 
Organizations (FBOs) , the private sector, and training and research institutions (GLIA 
Convention Article 8 (3), and coordination with national AIDS programs.  Partnerships are 
already well under way, but t
hese will grow as GLIA’s capacity is strengthened and its functions 
expand.  
 
a) External Partnerships:
Envisioned is a “Partnership Consultative Group” (PCG) composed of 
stakeholders.  Key early GLIA partners, namely  the World Bank and UNAIDS, would be 
included in the PCG as well as select representatives of civil society such as NGOs and FBOs,  
the private sector,  UN family organizations such as WHO, regional organizations and networks,  
as well as academic institutions and research institutes. The PCG would be an advisory body to 
the Council of Ministers and  assist in resource mobilization, program coordination and 
assessment; provide technical and policy advice and support; help incorporate GLIA approaches 
into their programs and contribute to the GLIA M&E system; advocate GLIA awareness and 
actions in their own constituency/networks; and other activities as may be identified as GLIA 
evolves. 
 
b)  Internal Partnerships and Coordination: 
GLIA Executive Committee members and the GLIA 
Country Focal Points will be the links between the regional and national AIDS programs. 
Page  6
Executive Committee members must be from the National AIDS Commission/Secretariat and the 
GLIA Country Focal Point must be a member of that staff.  A GLIA core professional will be 
responsible for liaising with all GLIA country focal points. Distribution of GLIA  M&E reports 
will contribute to maintaining regular contact and coordination. 
 
c) UNHCR:
UNHCR is essential in reaching refugee populations and a GLIA-UNHCR 
Memorandum of Understanding will formalize key points of this long-term cooperative 
relationship.  
 
The GLIA Convention specifies that GLIA will operate at political/policy and program levels 
through a ministerial oversight body, a management decision-making entity, and a small 
coordination/facilitation secretariat with linkages to national HIV/AIDS programs. Annual work 
plans and programs will determine the kinds of activities to be carried out. The annual work plan 
and programs will contain adequate activity details and a timetable for implementation and 
procurement. Annual program reviews (at a minimum), coupled with flexibility for subsequent 
year programs, are of particular importance given that the situation with refugees and other 
mobile populations may change quickly with repatriation or new disruptions, and that AIDS 
policy and technology are dynamic and may require shifts in focus. (The  Operations Manual,  in 
French and English, details these and other operational matters.). GLIA countries must: (i) 
designate representatives to the Council of Ministers and Executive Committee; (ii) appoint its 
GLIA Country Focal Point in its National AIDS secretariat to liaise with GLIA; (iii) take GLIA 
operations into account when planning national AIDS activities; (iv) advocate GLIA through 
dissemination of its recommendations, reports and materials; (v) facilitate, promote and 
supervise GLIA activities in their country; and vi) provide annual contributions as decided  by 
the Council of Ministers on a timely basis.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Long-term financial sustainability depends on international assistance. Over the four-year 
implementation period, financial resources from the project would be adequate. During the 
implementation period GLIA will actively pursue resources from other sources, including the 
Global Fund, bilateral donors, foundations, UNHCR and UNAIDS, as well as continued support 
from the six GLIA member governments. During the preparatory phase GLIA received 
contributions from USAID, DFID, UNAIDS, and UNHCR, coupled with broad expressions of 
support from many in the international community. It is reasonable to expect that contributions 
from external and internal resources will be forthcoming. 
 
Designed to complement national multisectoral undertakings in prevention, care, treatment and 
mitigation, GLIA is the first subregional IDA project in East and Central Africa to focus 
primarily on HIV/AIDS, on regional mobile populations, and cooperation among member  states. 
GLIA’s approach is fully consistent with national policies and programs, will be closely linked 
to the national AIDS structure in each country,  and prevailing policies of the Governments, 
UNAIDS agencies, and other donors. The project is designed to build both the institutional 
infrastructure as well as trust and partnership among the governments, communities, NGOs, the 
Page  7
private sector, and the international community. If the project is successful, GLIA's institutional 
future should be secure. 
 
GLIA member governments are  committed to support GLIA as reflected  in their having already 
signed the Convention, held inaugural sessions of  the Council of Ministers and the Executive 
Committee. In addition, the Government of Rwanda  provided funds and staff for the Executive 
Secretariat in Kigali for over five years, the DRC funded a technical workshop involving all 
GLIA States, and others have hosted the work of GLIA. GLIA countries  are in the process of 
determining how to equitably address assessed contributions for member states, taking into 
account they are in vastly different economic situations. UNHCR has expressed its full support 
for the project, has already undertaken considerable work in project preparation, and intends to 
incorporate lessons learned from GLIA into its other refugee camp sites and programs. UNAIDS 
has been a steady GLIA partner and intends to remain actively involved.  
 
By expanding and harmonizing HIV efforts throughout the region, GLIA will augment the 
effectiveness of national investments in prevention, care, treatment, and mitigation. By 
identifying and encouraging the sharing of information and promising approaches across 
countries and in different operational settings, the likelihood increases that such activities will be 
scaled up and attract additional funding from many sources, including donors and technical 
assistance entities, the governments, and affected communities. It will provide operational and 
policy inputs to national MAP projects, which in turn can apply to their programs what is done 
and learned under this project.      
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Abidjan/Lagos HIV/AIDS Transport Corridor, ARCAN, and Treatment Acceleration Project 
(TAP), are the first HIV/AIDS regional projects.  Key lessons drawn from them are:  
(a) The institutional framework is key, and needs to be dealt with early in the project 
preparation process;  
(b) The secretariat and other elements of institutional capacity will be weak at the outset, and 
will need strengthening and funding; 
(c) Agreement on a small secretariat staff which out-sources most activities will be a challenge 
that needs to be tackled early in the project cycle;  
(d) There is need to regularly explain the relationship and reasons for a regional program in 
lieu of increases in the national MAP; and  
(e) Regional projects typically take longer than expected because of greater coordination 
requirements which are time-consuming, and because of the complex operational and political 
environment in which they work. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The Project has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary 
Resettlement. The safeguard screening category is S2; and the environmental screening category 
is B. Key safeguard policy issues raised by the Project are medical waste management at health 
care facilities and impacts due to construction and rehabilitation of facilities, including health 
Page  8
care facilities. Since the locations and impacts of future GLIA activities are not known at this 
time, the Project has prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) 
and a Policy Framework for Compensation (PFC). Both documents have been disclosed through 
the GLIA Secretariat on September 28, 2004 and at the Bank’s Infoshop on October 4, 2004. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[x ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Section I: Project Implementation Plan
1.  Operations Manual and Annexes 
2.  First Year Annual Plan (Operations Manual, Volume 3) 
3. PPF 
4.  Project Procurement Plan (18 months) 
 
Section II: Bank Staff Assessment
1.  PCN dated July 10, 2003 
2.  QER Minutes dated August 10, 2004 
3.  BTOR dated August 16, 2004 
4. PAD 
 
Section III: Other Documents
1.  GLIA Convention English/French version 
2.  Council of Ministers Decision Briefs  
3.  Declaration of Principles and draft Institutional Framework (May 
2003) 
4.  Memorandum of Understanding GLIA/UNHCR 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  9
5. PHRD studies/reports 
6.  Technical and Operational workshop reports (Kigali and Kinshasa) 
7.  Sessions of the Council of Ministers 
8.  CCISD Mission Report 
9.  Aide Memoire dated August 17, 2004 
10. UNHCR Tool for Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA 
Action Plans 
11. Legal and Institutional Framework Field Visit (January 
–
February 
2004) 
12. Environment and Social Management Framework 
13. Policy Framework for Compensation 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Pamphile Kantabaze 
Title: Sr. Operations Officer. 
Tel: 5399+231 
Fax:  
Email: Pkantabaze@worldbank.org 
Location: Bujumbura, Burundi (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
