                                      50923

A SOCIAL AND GENDER ASSESSMENT OF
HIV/AIDS AMONG REFUGEE POPULATIONS
IN THE GREAT LAKES REGION OF AFRICA
Social and Gender Assessment



                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


FOREWORD                                                  iv
PREFACE                                                   vi
DISCLAIMER                                                vi
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS                                          vi

SOCIAL AND GENDER ASSESSMENT BACKGROUND                   ix
     OBJECTIVES OF ASSESSMENT                             ix
     GREAT LAKES INITIATIVE ON AIDS (GLIA)                x

PART 1: DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (DRC) COUNTRY REPORT

       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                  11
       ABBREVIATIONS                                      14
       GLOSSARY OF TERMS                                  16
       CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION                            18
       CHAPTER 2: DRC COUNTRY CONTEXT                     20
       CHAPTER 3: REFUGEES AND INTERNALLY DISPLACED
                   PEOPLE IN THE DRC                      26
       CHAPTER 4: KEY FINDINGS OF THE SOCIAL AND
                   GENDER ASSESSMENT                      37
       CHAPTER 5: CONCLUSIONS                             58
       CHAPTER 6: RECOMMENDATIONS                         59
       REFERENCES                                         68


PART 2: UGANDA COUNTRY REPORT

       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                  70
       ABBREVIATIONS                                      73
       CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION                            75
       CHAPTER 2: UGANDA COUNTRY CONTEXT                  77
       CHAPTER 3: REFUGEES AND INTERNALLY DISPLACED
                   PEOPLE IN UGANDA                       80
       CHAPTER 4: ENCAMPED REFUGEES IN MBARARA DISTRICT   84
       CHAPTER 5: HOST POPULATION AROUND REFUGEE CAMPS    96
       CHAPTER 6: RWANDAN ASYLUM SEEKERS                  101
       CHAPTER 7: IDPS IN UGANDA                          107
       CHAPTER 8: ANALYSIS OF FACTORS INFLUENCING
                   HIV TRANSMISSION                       116
       CHAPTER 9: CONCLUSIONS                             132
       CHAPTER 10: RECOMMENDATIONS                        134
       REFERENCES                                         149


PART 3: TANZANIA COUNTRY REPORT

       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                  150
       CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION                            154
       CHAPTER 2: TANZANIA COUNTRY CONTEXT                156
       CHAPTER 3: REFUGEES IN TANZANIA                    160
       CHAPTER 4: SETTLED REFUGEES IN ULYANKULU
       DESIGNATED SETTLEMENT                              165


                                       ii
                                                  Great Lakes Region



CHAPTER 5: ENCAMPED REFUGEES ­ KIBONDO DISTRICT       174
CHAPTER 6: NEIGHBOURING TANZANIAN POPULATIONS         182
CHAPTER 7: ANALYSIS OF FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV
            TRANSMISSION                              190
CHAPTER 8: CONCLUSIONS                                210
CHAPTER 9: RECOMMENDATIONS                            212
REFERENCES                                            232




                            iii
Social and Gender Assessment




                                         FOREWORD

The six countries of the Great Lakes Region (GLR) are home to large numbers of refugees
that are acutely poor and deeply affected by the HIV/AIDS endemic. Some of these refugees
are localized in camps while others are dispersed and partly integrated with resident
communities. Some populations are semi-permanent while others are highly transient, and in
a number of cases return to their country of origin as internally displaced people (IDPs). In all
instances the combination of mobility, acute poverty and the threat of HIV/AIDS poses both a
challenge and an opportunity, not just for these mobile populations and those who work with
them, but for the GLR as a whole.

With a view to enriching the knowledge about these communities and relevant behavior,
three country Social and Gender Assessments were conducted in the GLR, namely in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania and Uganda, as representative of the wider
populations. With the formal establishment of the Great Lakes Initiative on AIDS (GLIA) as an
independent organization wholly owned by Member States (Burundi, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda), approval of the World Bank's $20.0
million GLIA Support Project, and substantial UNAIDS assistance, there is now both an
institution and resources to work intensively with such populations. The intention is to create
a GLIA Information Center which will collect, disseminate, and utilize baseline information
such as this for decision-making particularly by the Great Lakes countries, their organizations
and people, and also by external partners.

From the Bank's perspective, these Assessments highlight the following:

1. As with AIDS programs everywhere, there are generic challenges, namely:
     The shift from "awareness" to "behavioral change";

       Difficulties in agreement on consistent messaging from public and
       non-public groups when there are significant substantive differences
       (condom use, safe sex education);

       Sex is treated as a currency of exchange to be bartered, bought and sold, and the
       gender dimension of the endemic needs to be taken fully into account; and

       Removing stigma so that individuals avail themselves of voluntary counseling and
       testing (VCT) and other services, and the community rallies around those who are
       HIV positive.

The central challenge is sorting out the multiple variables to be better able to make evidence-
based priority choices. This is very difficult to do in typically remote and unstable
environments with limited human and financial resources. Fundamentally it means putting in
place a practical monitoring and evaluation system that is used for decision-making.

2. For mobile populations HIV/ AIDS programs need to be customized to take into account
cultural factors, the psychological stress/impact of displacement on the mindset of those
displaced, and the context in which refugees, IDPS, and returnees live (uncertain future and
hopelessness, social disruption and weakening of traditional checks, limited livelihood
opportunities, idleness, congestion, and poverty).

3. With respect to encamped populations the ability to negotiate for more space, access to
acreage for agriculture, freedom to lawfully leave the encampment for work, is dependent on
a host of factors beyond their control. Often these include the economic, social and cultural



                                               iv
                                                                               Great Lakes Region



perceptions of the population by the host Government and the surrounding populations,
political issues extraneous to the operational considerations, and the degree of flexibility the
Government has in its response.

4. Food is a particularly significant commodity in refugee settings and for mobile populations
in general. Its provision from an external source can have complex and unintended social
and behavioral ramifications, both within the mobile community itself and in its relations with
surrounding communities.

5. Continuity of HIV/AIDS services (community mobilization, prevention, counseling) when
repatriation occurs is beneficial to all. It requires both host and returning countries to
coordinate program messaging, services, and making use of experienced service providers.

6. For semi-permanent or permanent non-national populations, the host country and UNHCR
(and subsequently the country of return) need to work together to dispel misperceptions, to
provide HIV/AIDS services to both the non-national and surrounding populations. These
should be jointly reviewed regularly to determine where improvements can be made, given
human and financial resources.

7. "Good practices" need to be highlighted and shared, such as the Youth Center in Mtendeli
Camp in Tanzania), for the purpose of replication elsewhere.

8. Mobile populations have community structures which, if provided with adequate training,
supervision and resources, can address HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Empowerment of the
community committees, where they are balanced in membership and sensitized committee
members, offers an important potential avenue for service delivery.

9. Behavioral Surveillance Surveys (BSS) are needed to complement HIV and STI
prevalence surveys. The Bank in partnership with UNHCR, and including CDC, IRC, and FHI
has been engaged in the development and testing of a BSS core questionnaire specifically
for these communities. It is being pilot tested in Rwanda and Kenya and will be widely made
available.

The Assessment work was financed both by the Norwegian Trust Fund for Environmentally
and Socially Sustainable Development and the Norwegian/Netherlands Fund for Gender
Mainstreaming to whom we give our deepest thanks. The findings, interpretations,
recommendations and conclusions expressed are entirely those of the authors, SMEC
International, Pty. Ltd. and those who contributed by their participation in workshops, focus
groups and interviews for whom we are most grateful. They do not necessarily represent the
view of the World Bank, its Executive Directors, or the countries they represent. Those who
assisted in designing the assessment terms of reference, assisting in the consultant selection
process, reviewing and providing detailed comments include Shmiwaayi Muntemba (Co-Task
Team Leader until her retirement from the Bank), Mark Blackden, Frode Davanger, John
Elder, Pamphile Kantabaze, Ayse Kudat, Luc Lapointe, and John Nyaga. Throughout,
encouragement and support was provided by ACTafrica. The major effort in analyzing the
draft assessments and working with the consultant in refining them was done by Nilufar
Egamberdi; she performed well beyond her brief, and to whom we express our appreciation.
Mohammad Javed Karimullah provided helpful administrative support throughout. Finally,
review of the three country draft reports and finalizing of this volume, as well as overarching
management of this exercise, was done by Richard Seifman, who was also the Co-Task
Team Leader of the GLIA Support Project.

Keith Hansen
Manager, AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
July 2005


                                              v
Social and Gender Assessment




                                         PREFACE

This volume contains information and recommendations that represent the views and
perceptions of the participants of the three Social and Gender Assessments of HIV/AIDS
Among Refugee and Internally Displaced Populations (IDPs) in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Uganda, and Tanzania, including interviewed communities and individuals, the
researchers, and participants at the national workshops. We purposely left each country
section with a full set of annexes, tables, figures and references. While this meant some
repetition, a reader interested in any one country can simply draw on that country report and
the attached annexes.

The overarching objective of this study was to: (i) improve the understanding of the social,
gender and economic patterns of interaction within the Refugees and IDP; and (ii) advance
policy-makers and program managers knowledge of how HIV/AIDS affects these
populations and the host communities.

In each of these areas the researchers obtained significant information which can serve as a
base for further improvement. The researchers also identified recommendations and points
of interest for future programs.

                                        DISCLAIMER

The following report is the result of fieldwork, consultations and literature review undertaken
as part of the three country Social and Gender Assessments of HIV/AIDS among Refugees
and IDPs ­ DRC, Uganda, Tanzania ­ conducted by SMEC International (Australia). This
report does not represent the views of the World Bank. Reliance upon any such opinion,
advice, statement, or other information shall also be at ones own risk.

                                  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This report is the result of the collective efforts of many individuals, communities and
institutions who have contributed with information, time and other resources to ensure a
successful conclusion to the three country Social and Gender Assessments of HIV/AIDS
Among Refugees and IDPs. We are indebted to each one of them.

Firstly, in DRC, we thank the Internally Displaced Populations in Mukulya and Mbimbi
Camps, and the host communities living near these camps who gave their time and their
stories for the Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS in IDPs in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. Thanks are owed also to Mr Amutu, the Deputy President of the
Mbimbi Camp IDP Committee, and Mr Senge Senge, the President of the Mukulya Camp
IDP Committee for arranging meetings during the researchers time in their respective
camps. In the Beni Region of the DRC, we acknowledge the collaboration with NGOs,
service providers and local government representatives in the Beni region, whose assistance
enabled this assessment to be undertaken. Special thanks are extended to the NGOs: World
Vision, MSF France, PPSSP, Norwegian Refugee Council, Solidarity, SOFEPADI, EPV, and
CESVI. Drs Mathew Ndoliko and Buana Sulu and their staff in the Beni Health Zone provided
the research team with an excellent briefing on the health and HIV/AIDS situation around
Beni. Mr Nicoise Kibel, a local journalist, provided a thorough briefing on the history and
issues facing the IDPs, and Mr Gondo Alfred, OCHA representative, provided an overall
briefing on the situation of IDPs in the region.

At the national level in the DRC Dr Jack Kokolomami, Director of PNLS (the National
Program for the Fight Against AIDS), provided the research team with vital information on the


                                              vi
                                                                                           Great Lakes Region



DRC HIV/AIDS program, with decisions on sites and by opening the national feedback
workshop. Special thanks are owed also to Mr Bienvenu Ndunga, member of the National
Commission for Refugees in the Ministry of the Interior for providing the research team with
an excellent briefing on the status of refugees and IDPs in the DRC. The research team
particularly acknowledge the valuable inputs of Ms Meredith Beaujan, UNAIDS, Dr
Dieudonné Yiweza, UNHCR, and Ms Marcelline Makulu, PNLS. Lastly, Professor Patrick
Kayembe of the Department of Public Health at the University of Kinshasa provided the team
with invaluable information on the socio-economic situation of IDPs and assisted in the
selection of sites and the national researcher.Our appreciation the efforts that Ms Annie
Bakambana of the World Bank in DRC gave in organizing the national feedback workshop
while the researchers were in Beni. Also our gratitude goes to all the national government
and non-government participants for stimulating discussions during the national workshop.

In Uganda, we wish to acknowledge all the people of Oruchinga and Nakivale Refugee
Camps, Kabaati Asylum Seekers Camp, Kajaho village and Awer Internally Displaced
Peoples Camp who shared valuable information with the research team. Thanks also goes
to Messrs Bwangamoi-Okello and Remmy Wafula (Prime Ministers Office, Kampala), John
Rwomushana (Uganda AIDS Commission), Reuben del Prado (UNAIDS Kampala), Emmy
Killigye (Uganda Red Cross Camp Officer, Oruchinga), Irene Atuhurire (HIV/AIDS Counselor,
Oruchinga), Josephine Kalule (Community Resilience Dialogue1), Stella Neema (Makerere
Institute of Social Research),Chris Baryomunsi (UNFPA Kampala), Fred Magala (Uganda
Red Cross, Mbarara), David Mugenyi (Camp Commandant, Nakivale), Julius Rukidi (Deputy
Camp Commandant, Nakivale), Johnson Candia (Nakivale Refugee Camp), Joram
Musinguzi (Camp Manager, Nakivale), Titus Jogoo (Refugee Desk Officer, South Western
Uganda), Apollo Besigye (Records Officer, Nshungyezi Health Centre), Joel Baliddawa
(SMEC Country Manager for Uganda), Alfred Mutiti (UNICEF, Kampala), Peter Kibahiganira
and Paul Gabula (Community Services Supervisors) are also thanked for being on hand to
assist with information gathering.

Many people assisted the research team during fieldwork in Awer IDP camp and in Gulu. Our
thanks to the District Chairman, Lt. Col. Walter Ochora and his deputy Mr. Kerobino Ojok, the
Chief Administrative Officer of Gulu District, Mr. Godfrey Ogwang, the Resident District
Commissioner, Ms Naome (Assistant Community Development Officer, Gulu), Mr. Max
Omeda and Mr. Albert Onyuta the Community Development Officer, all of who assisted the
team in securing the necessary security clearances and also provided background
information for the study. Thanks also go to Mr. Fred Olaa of the World Food Programme
Office in Gulu, Rebecca Symington, UNICEFs Northern Uganda Coordinator, Sven the MSF
Coordinator, Charles Watmon, Dolly Ocen and Michael Oruni of World Vision, Rose Muloni,
Robert Alleni, Walter Okema and Ronald Okwey of TASO Gulu, Karoli Muhammad and Paul
Oketch of Awer Camp, The research team is grateful to officials of the Uganda Peoples
Defence Forces (UPDF), 4th Division Headquarters, Gulu who freely shared information on
HIV transmission. Special thanks go to Dr. John Lusiba and Florence Nabajja (in-charge of
VCT). At Lacor Hospital the team greatly acknowledges the assistance of all staff, especially
Dr. Barbara Nattabi, whose insights into issues of HIV transmission provided valuable
information to the research team. In Awer Camp the support of Mr. Ochen, Political
Commissar is also acknowledged.

Finally, in Tanazania, we thank the refugees in Ulyankulu Settlement and in Kanembwa and
Mtendeli camps, and the local Tanzanian people in Kasanda town, and Uyowa and
Mukugwa-Kilemba villages who took part in this Social and Gender Assessment for their time
and frankness. We acknowledge the input provided by the Tanzanian National AIDS
1
  Community Resilience Dialogue (CRD) is a coalition of five organisations (IRC, Catholic Relief Services, Save
the Children Uganda, CARE & AVSI). They work in 11 districts on psycho-social issues, peace, HIV/AIDS &
economic development. CRD provided useful insights into HIV/AIDS in northern Uganda based on their
involvement in Kitgum, Pader, Gulu, Arua, Moroto and Kotido.


                                                      vii
Social and Gender Assessment



Commission (TACAIDS), especially the information provided by Dr Adeline Moshi. Further,
the support provided by the Mr Harrison Mseke, of the Refugee Department of the Ministry of
Home Affairs, was invaluable. He facilitated the research teams work in Ulyankulu
Designated Settlement, provided excellent information to the team prior to their field trip, and
was an active participant in the national workshop.

The assessment in Tanzania would not have taken place without the support of the United
Nations High Commissioner For Refugees (UNHCR), both in Dar Es Salaam and in the North
Western Region. Special thanks are extended to Ms Naomi Nyitamba who worked with the
researchers in Kidondo to ensure the assessment was undertaken in an appropriate and
efficient manner. Dr John Tabayi, Senior Health Coordinator for UNHCR in the Northwestern
region of Tanzania, also provided excellent support and insights. In Dar Es Salaam office, Mr
Fredrick Mwinjabi assisted with logistical arrangements and contacts, and Ms Candida
Muhanika, UNHCR HIV/AIDS Officer, provided invaluable information on HIV/AIDS in the
camps of new-case load refugees. From Ulyankulu Settlement, special thanks are extended
to the local leaders, particularly in Kaswa Trading Post. Mr Leonard Abiudi, the village
Executive Officer, provided exemplary services as mobilizer and coordinator for the research
in Ulyankulu Settlement. Mr Songolo, the Settlement Officer, smoothed the way for the
research team administratively and politically.

Our thanks go to Mr. Mbili of UNHCR Office, Dr. Raoufou Makou, Medical Officer, UNHCR
Kibondo, Dr. Geoffrey Okumu of IRC, Mr. Carlos Gwamagobe, District AIDS Coordinator, Mr.
John Katunzi, Kibondo District Council, Ms. Rose Mzava, Reproductive Health Manager,
International Rescue Committee (IRC), Dr. Eliphase Kamugisha, UNICEF Kibondo, Ms.
Robin Altaras, UNHCR Intern Kibondo, Ms. Agnes Kanyonyi, UNHCR Protection Assistant,
and Mr. Edessius Gwera, UNHCR Field Assistant. The team is also appreciative of the work
Ms Eveline Kapya, from the World Bank offices in Dar Es Salaam, performed in organizing
the national feedback workshop. Our gratitude as to the national feedback workshop
attendees, who all participated actively to make the workshop a success! Other people who
assisted in the study include Dr. Tax and Dr. Flora Kessy of the Economic and Social
Research Foundation (ESRF). A special thanks to the staff of the SMEC Tanzania office,
especially to Mitra for assistance with the workshop, and the tireless efforts of Fatuma.




                                              viii
                                                                                 Great Lakes Region




                      SOCIAL AND GENDER ASSESSMENT BACKGROUND


    SOCIAL AND GENDER ASSESSMENT OF HIV/AIDS AMONG REFUGEES AND
            IDP'S IN THE GREAT LAKES REGION OF AFRICA (GLR)
    Rationale for the Social and Gender Assessment
In the Great Lakes Region of Africa (GLR), populations frequently move within borders and
across the borders of the six countries ­ DRC, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and
Kenya- as a result of civil conflict, as well as trade and ethnic ties. Such mobility, particularly
as a result of conflict-related displacement, can act as a source of HIV infection to host
populations and can create situations in which these populations are extremely vulnerable to
HIV infection2.

According to the World Bank Draft Guidelines for Social Assessment of HIV/AIDS projects - a
major analytical and operational tool for development interventions associated with HIV/AIDS
prevention, care, support, and mitigation - poverty and gender issues are at the heart of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. This implies that social, cultural and economic factors are likely to play a
significant role in the spread of HIV/AIDS. Further, as a result of this mobility and the
vulnerability of these populations to HIV transmission and infection, special initiatives are
needed to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the GLR. This requires a collaborative effort
between the six countries that constitute the GLR if the spread of HIV/AIDS is to be
controlled. Therefore, such initiatives must be based on a thorough understanding of factors
influencing HIV/AIDS transmission within these populations, and between these populations
and others.

Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS in Refugee and Internally Displaced Populations
(IDPs) in the three selected GLR countries ­ Tanzania, Uganda, and the DRC - was designed to
investigate these social, economic, cultural and behavioral factors that influence the transmission
of HIV. This Assessment will provide information to the recently formalised Great Lakes
Initiative on AIDS (GLIA) (see Section 2) as well as national stakeholders that will guide the
development of the appropriate HIV/AIDS initiatives in the Region.

Objectives of the Social and Gender Assessment

The objectives of this Social and Gender Assessment (Annex 1) are:

      To improve the understanding of the social and economic patterns of interaction within
      the GLR refugees, returnees and IDP; and
      To advance policy-makers and program managers knowledge of how HIV/AIDS affects
      refugee populations and spreads from refugee groups into the general population, and
      vice versa.

The overall objectives of the entire assignment aimed to examine transmission routes of and
exposure to, HIV with respect to opportunities and constraints on prevention, care and
treatment that are relevant to:
 Gender dimensions of HIV (including sexual behavior and reproductive health) of IDPs,
    refugees, and host population;
 Social and economic dimensions of poverty among IDPs, refugees, and host population;
    and
 Mobility of IDPs, refugees, and returnees.
.
2
    UNAIDS 2001. Population Mobility and AIDS. Technical Note


                                                      ix
Social and Gender Assessment



The team developed a working research question to guide the assessment in Uganda:

"To determine and better understand the must be social and gender factors influencing the
transmission of HIV within refugee and IDP populations; and between such populations and
neighbouring communities."

This guiding research question covers all issues necessary to examine transmission routes
of, and exposure to, HIV/AIDS in terms of the gender dimensions in the study populations
and host populations; the social and economic dimensions of poverty; and the mobility
among these populations; as well as the opportunities and constraints to prevention, care
and treatment.


                               GREAT LAKES INITIATIVE ON AIDS
This Assessment was performed to inform the programming of GLIA, as well as that of
donors and national stakeholders. GLIA was established in 1998, by the Ministers of Health
in the six GLR countries - Burundi, DRC, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda - in
recognition of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the Region and in readiness for developing inter-
country collaboration to fight HIV/AIDS3. Specifically, the six Great Lakes countries: (i) will
develop and coordinate their policies and strategies at borders with respect to HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and treatment; and (ii) will develop multi-sectoral programs targeting
specifically vulnerable groups, namely potentially mobile populations and interacting
communities.

A sub-regional project ­ the GLIA Support Project - was developed, which will support inter-
regional programs and national initiatives with a sub-regional framework. The first component
of this project will support Refugees, Affected Areas Surrounding the Refugee Communities,
IDPs and Returnees ­and aims to provide a full range of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and
support to these directly affected populations.




3
    GLIA 2004. GLIA: Operations Manual.


                                               x
Social and Gender Assessment



            PART I. DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO COUNTRY REPORT


                                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS in Refugee and Internally Displaced
Populations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) studied factors influencing
HIV/AIDS in the Beni Region of Eastern DRC.

While the majority of the 65,000 IDPs in the Beni Region are hosted in local homes, many
IDPs are housed in 62 temporary camps in which living conditions are generally poor. For the
purposes of this assessment, two such camps were studied. One ­ Mukulya Camp - is a
small well-organized settlement of semi-permanent houses with water, health and sanitation
services set in a rural area, near Mukulya village. The second, Mbimbi Camp, is a large,
congested, under-served camp of tiny plastic shelters in the urban area of Oicha city.

The studied population in the selected Beni Region were displaced as a consequence of
ethnic clashes between the Hema and the Lendu ethic groups in Ituri Region in May 2003.
The situation of the IDPs is characterized by lack of basic needs, limited fair access to
livelihood opportunities, economic and sexual exploitation by the host communities. In some
of the studied locations, high congestion and tension exists between the IDPs and the host
community located in the vicinity of the camps; health services are distant, discriminatory
towards the IDPs and are of poor quality.

Although the multiple uses of non-sterile blades by traditional healers was cited as a route of
HIV transmission, high risk heterosexual behavior ­ multiple sexual partners outside a
permanent relationship and limited use of condoms ­ is considered to be the principle mode
of HIV transmission in both the IDP and the host populations. Such behavior occurred
despite the existing awareness of HIV and AIDS among various segments of the studied
population, often regardless of their age and gender. Such tendency especially among the
IDP population was found to be influenced by a set of factors that includes:

1.   Negative attitudes to condoms and to discussing sex
2.   Early sex for IDP girls
3.   Few accessible livelihood opportunities and resulting limited access to food and basic
     necessities that leads to exploitation at the hands of the host population
4.   Changes in the traditional gender roles in the household as a result of displacement
5.   Social and economic gatherings providing opportunities for sex
6.   Women raped during the ethnic violence in 2003
7.   Congestion in the camp
8.   Limited and distant health services
9.   Increased opportunities for transactional sex as a result of the camp location in the close
     proximity to urban trading areas

Analysis of the data indicated that social and economic poverty associated with displacement
is a factor that has increased the vulnerability of IDPs to HIV/AIDS in comparison with the
host population. Specifically, the host population has considerably high social capital and
does not face issues of encampment and congestion, nor does it face the same livelihood
and food access pressures as the IDPs, which in turn have lead to an increased a shift in
gender relations in IDP families. The poverty experienced by the IDPs is of a deeper and
multi-facetted nature, which focuses IDPs fully on their day-to-day survival.

Three key factors were identified that drive the vulnerability to, and the actual transmission
of, HIV in the IDP populations assessed in the DRC. These were:



                                               11
Social and Gender Assessment




1.   Attitudes to condoms and sex
2.   Displacement and uncertainty about, or inability, to return home
3.   Traditional habits and customs.

Overlying these primary factors is the isolation of Eastern DRC, and the general inadequacy
of countrys health service delivery mechanism, and the nascent HIV/AIDS program that is
not fully operational. Each of these factors leads to another set of secondary factors, which
maintains the vulnerability to the spread of HIV/AIDS.

The complex web of factors influencing the spread of HIV/AIDS in the IDP and host
populations in the DRC, occurs at three levels: (i) at the individual behavioral level, (ii) at the
household level and (iii) at a community or societal level,.

Of key importance to the spread of HIV/AIDS in the IDP populations is the use of sex as a
currency that can be exchanged, bartered, bought and sold. In the IDP populations
assessed, the extent of level of transactional sex undertaken by IDP women, mainly with
host community men, in order to support the familys basic needs is significant. This practice
appears to be the result of inadequate supplies of food, in terms of its quantity, quality and
type, provided by NGOs; restricted access to services compared to and imposed by the host
community; and limited access to adequate livelihood opportunities for IDPs. In many
instances, girls as young as 12 years old are engaged in transactional sex, others being sent
out by their mothers to "bring home meat and sugar". Many married and unmarried women,
the educated and the poorly uneducated are reported to be involved in transactional sex.

The psychological stress caused by the violence and rape suffered prior to displacement the
uncertainty about returning home and uniting with their families, the frustration of living as
IDPs, and feelings of powerlessness to influence their own lives ­ are also considered to be
among factors leading to sexual liaisons amongst IDPs. Considerable promiscuous behavior
amongst IDPs was observed and was perceived as having resulted from a weakening of
traditional checks and balances as a result of displacement. Finally, the low use of condoms
by the IDPs and the host population, as a result of the teachings of Church leaders and
personal preferences for skin-to-skin contact during sexual intercourse, combined with the
societal taboo of discussing sex openly, and an attitude that AIDS is a distant threat also
poses barriers to safer sexual practices.

A series of recommendations are made that reflect the views of the researchers, national and
local NGOs, government and leaders, as well as the IDPs and host community members.
These recommendations are mainly derived from the findings of the Social and Gender
Assessment of HIV/AIDS in the DRC, those of the national HIV/AIDS Program,
Recommendations are made to focus on revitalising current HIV/AIDS programs of the
government and NGOs operational in the Beni region. Suggestions include improving
HIV/AIDS and STI detection and treatment services in health facilities, and the adoption of
local initiatives that operate according to national guidelines and operate through camp
HIV/AIDS committees and facilitated by NGOs. Such an initiative would focus on behavior
change, addressing barriers to safe behavior, the factors driving high risk behavior and
providing an environment supportive of behavior change. Accessibility of free condoms,
appropriate peer education, and concordant HIV/AIDS messages are strongly
recommended.

Our recommendations are also made to broaden standard HIV/AIDS programs - to think
outside the box. They suggest addressing factors that drive and maintain high risk sexual
behavior, such as inadequate food and basic household requirements; access for IDPs to
livelihood opportunities; the host community imposed restrictions on accessing livelihood
opportunities, including exploitation; idleness; improving the living conditions in the camps;


                                                12
                                                                           DRC Country Report



strengthening societal and familiar structures; and gender imbalances. Peace in the Ituri
region and a return home for the IDPs would relieve key factors that are driving the
vulnerability to HIV transmission. The GoDRC is urged to address this continuing insecurity.

Lastly, recommendations are made to address the disharmony noted at many levels - within
IDP households, between IDPs and host communities, and between implementers of
HIV/AIDS prevention programs. As far as HIV/AIDS program are concerned, the PNLS must
ensure that a strong coordinating, programming, implementing and monitoring mechanism is
adopted and operationalized as soon as is possible. Such a mechanism must operate from
the local level to the central to coordinate HIV/AIDS programs and interventions delivered by
separate stakeholders.




                                             13
Social and Gender Assessment




                                     ABBREVIATIONS

AIDS        Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
APC         Armée Du Peuple Congolais (Congolese Peoples Army)
ARV         Anti-Retroviral Drugs
CDC         Centre for Disease Control
CECI        Congolese Evangelist Churches Association
DRC         Democratic Republic Of The Congo
DRT         Development Research And Training
EPV         Ensemble pour Vaincre le Sida ­ Team for fighting AIDS
EPVi        Espoir Pour La Vie (NGO - Hope For Life)
FOSI        Forum SIDA (Forum Against AIDS
FrC         Franc Congolese (Currency Of DRC)
GLIA        Great Lakes Initiative on AIDS
GLR         Great Lakes Region
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation
GoDRC       Government of DRC
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDP         Internally Displaced People or Populations
IEC         Information, Education And Communication
IGA         Income-Generating Activities
KML         Kisangani Mouvement de Liberation (Kisangani Movement for Liberation)
MAP         Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project
MICS        Multiple Indicators Clusters Survey
MoH         Ministry of Health
MONUC       Mission des Nations-Unies au Congo (United Nations Mission in Congo)
MSF         Medicines Sans Frontiers (NGO- Doctors Without Borders)
NGO         Non-Government Organization
NRC         Norwegian Refugee Council
OCHA        Organisation For Coordinating Humanitarian Assistance
PLA         Participatory Learning And Action
PLWHA       People Living With HIV/AIDS
PNLS        Programme National De Lutte Contre Le SIDA (National Program For The Fight
            Against AIDS) (National AIDS Coordinating Program in the DRC)
PNMLS       Programme National Multisectoriel De Lutte Contre Le SIDA (Multi-sectoral
            Program For The Fight Against AIDS )
PPSSP       Programme De Promotion Des Soins De Santé Primaires (Program For The
            Promotion Of Primary Health Care)
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSI         Population Service International (NGO)
RCD         Rassemblement Congolais pour la Democratie (Congolese Rally for Democracy)
SGBV        Sexual And Gender-Based Violence


                                                14
                                                                     DRC Country Report



SMEC     Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
SOFEPA   Solidarité Féminine Pour La Paix Et Le Développement Intégral (Women
DI       Solidarity For Peace and Integrated Development)
STD      Sexually Transmitted Disease
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
TEP      Teachers Emergency Package
UN       United Nations
UNAIDS   United Nations Aids Organization
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR    United Nations High Commissioner For Refugees
UNIFEM   United Nations Development Fund For Women
UNICEF   United Nations Childrens Fund
UNOPS    United Nations Office For Project Services
UPC      Union Des Patriotes Congolais (Congolese Patriotic Front)
USAID    United States International Development Agency
USD      United States Of America Dollars
VCT      Voluntary Counselling And Testing
WFP      World Food Program
WHO      World Health Organization




                                            15
Social and Gender Assessment




                                           GLOSSARY OF TERMS

    Casual Sex                A working definition adopted by the researchers in this Social and
                              Gender Assessment to mean a liaison between a man and a woman
                              outside of a long term relationship.
    Casual Sex Worker         A working definition adopted by the researchers for a poor woman
                              who regularly frequents bars in the hope of meeting a man who
                              would provide food, alcohol and "whatever else the man wants to
                              offer" in exchange for sex that night.
    Commercial Sex            A working definition adopted by the researchers to mean a liaison
                              between a man and a woman in which sex is negotiated for money.
    Commercial        Sex A working definition adopted by the researchers for a woman whose
    Worker                main livelihood is selling sex for money. The price, place and time
                          are negotiated with the client before the sex act.
    Host Community or In this study, a host community or population is a DRC community
    Population        living near a refugee population and with whom the refugees interact.

    Internally Displaced The formal definition refers to as "persons or groups of persons who
    Person               have been forced or obliged to flee or to leave their homes or places
                         of habitual residence, in particular as a result of or in order to avoid
                         the effects of armed conflict, situations of generalized violence,
                         violations of human rights or natural or human-made disasters, and
                         who have not crossed an internationally recognized State border"4
    Ngosi kua ngosi           Local term for "skin on the skin"- referring to the pleasure of sex
                              without a condom

    Mobilizer                 In this study, a mobilizer is a person from the local community who
                              worked in conjunction with the researchers and community leaders
                              to inform the local community of the assessment, to organize venues
                              and times for meetings, to gather participants, and to assist the
                              researchers in the logistics of their work in the field.



    Paracetamol               Informal term for a condom used by the IDPs in Mukulya and Mbimbi
                              Camps.
    Promiscuous               In this assessment, a term used by the researchers to describe
    sexual behavior           sexual relationships outside of or in addition to sex within a
                              permanent union, often with multiple casual partners.
    Refugee                   Formal definition is any person whom owing to a well-founded fear
                              from persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality,
                              membership of a particular social group or political opinion is outside
                              his/her country or nationality or habitual residence and is unable or
                              unwilling to avail himself/herself to the protection of the government
                              which he/she has previously fled5
    Sinadawa                  Local term for AIDS meaning "a disease without medicine".


4
    The Definition in the UN Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement (1988)
5
    1951 UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees


                                                         16
                                                              DRC Country Report



Write-shop   Workshop in which participants (in this case the researchers)
             alternate between verbal group work sessions and writing sessions
             to prepare a mutually acceptable document
Youth        In this study, youth were defined as males and females aged 16
             years to 25 years of age




                                 17
Social and Gender Assessment




                                    CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION

This report outlines the findings and recommendations from an assessment of factors
influencing HIV/AIDS in Refugees and Internally Displaced People (IDPs) in the DRC
conducted in the Beni area amongst IDPs displaced from the Ituri region as a result of inter-
ethnic conflict.

The study focused on IDPs as the prime study population due to the large numbers of IDPs,
especially in the north-east of the DRC, as a result of years of civil conflict, and the
remoteness of this region has resulted in limited information on HIV/AIDS and the factors
influencing the transmission of HIV/AIDS. Refugees were not included as a study population
in this assessment in the DRC as the majority of encamped refugees in the country originate
from non-GLR countries6; while those refugees from GLR countries, mainly Rwanda, are
disbursed and inaccessible forest areas. In addition, insecurity in South Kivu and North Kivu
Provinces of eastern DRC made access to these Rwandan refugees impossible7.

With respect to Congolese refugees returning to the DRC from neighboring Angola and the
Republic of Congo, this study population was not selected for study as returnees are
disbursed throughout the country once they return, and are not found in discrete
communities.

The assessment was performed by the Assessment Team Leader, a core researcher from
the DRC, and a national researcher represented the Department of Sociology of the
University of Kinshasa.

Key stakeholders (for detail refer to Annex 2) from academic organizations, the government -
particularly National Committee for Refugees in the Ministry of the Interior, United Nations
(UN) agencies, PNLS, Ministry of Health National AIDS Coordinating Program, NGOs
working in the East and in HIV/AIDS, and donors were all consulted in Kinshasa prior to
commencement of the field work. This consultation provided: (i) assistance for selection of
study sites and study populations, (ii) suggestions for a national researcher, and (iii)
background secondary data. In Beni, provincial and zonal government officials, Organization
for Coordinating Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA) and international and local NGOS working
with IDPs were also consulted.

Two IDP camps originated from Ituri were studied: (i) IDPs in Mukulya Camp, which is a
planned camp in a rural area in which the IDPs have access to health care, education and
land; and (ii) IDPs in Mbimbi Camp within proximity of city of Oicha, in which IDP
accommodation is poor, services and livelihood opportunities are limited. Study sites were
purposely selected to compare different variables between the camps ­ rural vs urban;
congested vs planned; land access vs none; and service access. IDP populations were
compared with neighboring host populations, and selected on their proximity to the camps.

In order to provide an in-depth understanding of factors influencing the transmission of
HIV/AIDS, the data was collected through consultation of national stakeholders, and a review
of existing secondary data and literature. In the field, internationally accepted participatory
methodologies applied to a standardized research tool (Appendix 1 of Annex 2) were used to
collect qualitative data. This qualitative data was verified by triangulation methods to ensure
its accuracy.

6
 Angola, the Republic of Congo (Congo-Brazzaville) and Sudan.
7
  The researchers were to study an isolated group of Rwandan refugees near Bukavu, but the town fell to rebels
2 days before the researchers were due to travel to the area. Also the Team Leader was not permitted by the UN
or the civil authorities to travel to the East of the country.


                                                     18
                                                                             DRC Country Report




Analysis of primary field data commenced while the researchers were still in the field.
Feedback was provided the major NGOs operating in the Beni region, as well as the
Coordinator of Beni Health Zone8. This analysis continued in Kinshasa, where the Congolese
core researcher, the Team Leader and the national researcher met for 4 days to synthesize
the field data for presentation in the national feedback workshop.

Verbal, slide and report presentations were made at this national workshop and a workshop
report was prepared and distributed to all national stakeholders and local stakeholder
representative at each study site. This enabled recommendations to be taken up at national
as well as local level.

The capacity development processes possible in the DRC assessment were limited to
training of the core researcher and the national researcher on qualitative data collection, and
particular on synthesis of the data collected. The Team Leader provided this training. In the
field, mobilizers and translators received instruction on the research process and their tasks.

This assessment faced several constraints and limitations that included insecurity in both
Kinshasa and in Beni, which restricted movement, particularly to the IDP camps, and
undermined the complete involvement of communities in the research process.

The remainder of this report outlines the study sites, findings and recommendations of the
Social and Gender Assessment in June 2004. Chapter 2 presents the context for each site,
followed by the Assessment findings and analysis for IDPs presented in Chapter 3.
Recommendations, both in general for HIV prevention and for the situation with IDPs in the
DRC, are presented in Chapter 5. The assessment methodology and site selection is
detailed in Annex 2, and the national feedback workshop summary in Annex 3.




8
    See Annex 2 for details on exact NGOs consulted


                                                      19
Social and Gender Assessment




                                CHAPTER 2: COUNTRY CONTEXT

DRC is a large country covering 2,345,409 km2. It shares a border of 9,045 kms with nine
countries - Angola, Burundi, Republic of Congo, Central African Republic, Sudan, Zambia,
Rwanda, Uganda and Tanzania, making the DRC borders pervious to the movement of
peoples from surrounding countries. The population of DRC is estimated at 52 million people
with 46 percent of the population under the age of 15 years.

In spite of its vast human and natural resources, the DRC is one of the poorest countries in
the world largely as a result of 30 years of poor governance, a failed transition to democracy
that was accompanied by pillaging and institutional deterioration and civil conflict since 1996.
Forty-six percent of the rural population lives below the poverty line, while only 18 percent of
the urban population is poor9. However, these statistics may mask the real severity of poverty
- it is estimated that over 80 percent of the urban population live on $US 0.20 per day or less
and the situation in rural areas is likely to be worse10. The situation of poverty is greatest in
the east of the country due to the focus of the civil conflicts in this area. Infrastructure has
been destroyed, health indicators have fallen11, personal property has been pillaged, over 3
million people are dead, and more than 4 million have been displaced12.

Social service provision is poor, with an estimated 18.5 million people having no access to
health care services, 54 percent of the population having no access to safe water or
sanitation, and a low quality of education13. Social indicators are poor14 and gender-based
violence is widespread15.

Further, the protracted political situation had not allowed economic development to proceed
until the instigation of the Transitional Government. However, social development and
poverty reduction will take second priority to the establishment of peace, the holding of
elections, and the establishment of robust political structures to run the country.

    HIV/AIDS Situation
This section covers the HIV/AIDS situation in the DRC. Chapter 2 highlights the HIV/AIDS
situation in the study sites.
HIV/AIDS Prevalence
In 2004, the national HIV prevalence in the DRC was estimated as 4.69 percent - using
prevalence in antenatal clinics as an indicator for the broader population16. HIV prevalence
was higher in sexually transmitted infection (STI) patients ­ 17 percent of STI carriers were
HIV+ in 200117. Of those infected with HIV, 36,000 (4.6 percent) of children of less than 15
years of age were infected18. In 2003, it was estimated that 1.1 million adults (0-49 years)
(2.6 percent of the population) were living with HIV/AIDS - 100,000 of these were children (0-
17 years of age) - and 110,000 adults and children had died of HIV/AIDS19.

9
  Government of DRC (GoDRC) 2002. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
10
   Government of DRC (GoDRC) 2002. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
11
   Maternal mortality, under-5 mortality and infant mortality
12
   GoDRC 2002. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
13
   GoDRC 2002. Interim PRSP; and UNICEF 2002. MICS2
14
   UNICEF, USAID and the Ministry of Planning 2002. MICS2
15
   Initiative Conjointe De Lutte Contre Les Violences Sexuelles Faites À La Femme Et À L'enfants: Rapport De
Mission Effectuée Dans Les Villes de Kalemie, Bukavu et Goma, auot 2003
16
   CDC 2004. National HIV Sero-Prevalence Survey of DRC
17
   WHO 2004. HIV/AIDS Situation in the DRC.
18
   UNIADS 2004. Report On The Global AIDS Epidemic.
19
   UNAIDS 2004. Report On The Global AIDS Epidemic.


                                                    20
                                                                                 DRC Country Report




In the DRC, the majority (90%) of HIV/AIDS transmission is through a heterosexual contact,
while 3.8 percent of notified AIDS cases were due to mother-to-child transmission. Other
routes of transmission include blood transfusions20 because most blood is not pre-tested for
HIV - and through the multiple use of unclean blades and syringes21.

In North Kivu Province, where this assessment took place, the HIV prevalence in Goma town
- 280 km south of the study area - was found to be 5.4 percent. In Bunia, 300 km north of the
study area in Beni, the HIV prevalence in 2004 was 3.2 percent. In Orientale Province (Ituri
region), the place of origin of the IDP study populations, the HIV prevalence was 6.5
percent22.

 Knowledge, Attitudes and Behavior About HIV/AIDS
In the DRC, most men have an adequate knowledge of HIV/AIDS, however women are less
aware of the means of preventing HIV infection, and the transmission routes of the virus. In
contrast a national survey in 2001 revealed that only 40 percent of women interviewed could
correctly identify three means of preventing HIV/AIDS. Women with limited awareness tend
to live in urban areas, are in the richest income quintiles, or are well-educated23. Only just
over half of the women interviewed in this survey (55 percent) were aware of methods of
transmission of HIV from a mother to a child during childbirth and through breastfeeding.

United Nations AIDS Organisation (UNAIDS) estimates that at least 90 percent of those
infected with HIV do not know their sero-status24. In DRC, only 18 voluntary counselling and
testing (VCT) centres are operating, and only 32,000 people have been tested25.

In the Multiple Indicators Clusters Survey (MICS2) referred to above26, among the women
who had sexual intercourse with at least one casual partner in the 12 months prior to the
survey, the majority (87 percent) did not use a condom. The prevalence of unprotected
intercourse was higher among the rural women (92 percent), less educated women (94
percent), and the poorest women (94 percent)27. In this study, among the women of
childbearing age who had already engaged in sexual intercourse, 24 percent had intercourse
before they were 15 years old; and 2 percent had intercourse before they were 12 years old.
Nation-wide, the average age at which females has sex for the first time is 16 years old.

Statistics are difficult to obtain in DRC, particularly information that pertains to the east of the
country, therefore information obtained nationally in the past several years is provided to
present a context for this assessment in the DRC28.

Due to limited data in the Eastern DRC a study conducted in Kinshasa29 was used to give an
idea of misconceptions regarding HIV/AIDS in the general population. It indicated that beliefs
existed that witches caused AIDS, a HIV+ person could easily be recognised by how they
look, and 25 percent didnt know any of the symptoms for STI. Ninety percent of the
respondents knew about condoms, but less that 5 percent of the male respondents used

20
   MoH 2004. Report of National Blood Transfusion Committee
21
   PNLS 2003. Report
22
   CDC 2004. National HIV Sero-Prevalence Survey of DRC
23
   UNICEF, USAID and the Ministry of Planning 2002. MICS2
24
   GoDRC 2002. Interim PRSP
25
   USAID, UNAIDS, WHO, UNICEF and the Policy Project 2004.
26
   UNICEF, USAID and the Ministry of Planning 2002. MICS2
27
   National survey of sentinel sites with a sample population of over 1000 women
28
   Kayemba P 2002; Lapica 2004
29
    Kayembe P 2002. Sexual Practices And Population Attitude Regarding STI, HIV/AIDS And Condoms,
Kinshasa. This study concerned a sample of 2111 persons and was conducted in Kinshasa.


                                                21
Social and Gender Assessment



condoms regularly and if condoms were used, this was mainly with casual sexual partners.
Discrimination was also evident ­ 70 percent of respondents said that they would not buy
food sold by people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), and 70 percent of respondents said they
would keep their HIV sero-positivity a secret from their family. Sex and HIV/AIDS are rarely
discussed in the family, and it is only the youth group who discuss sex and HIV/AIDS
amongst friends. Television and radio are the key media for transmission of HIV/AIDS
messages. A small scale qualitative study in Goma found similar results30.

 Impact of HIV/AIDS in the DRC
In the DRC, the lack of reliable and consistent data makes it difficult to assess the impact of
HIV/AIDS on the population and the country. This said, the information that does exist
suggests that like in other African countries, HIV/AIDS affects the productive sectors of the
population31 - the workers, teachers, health professionals, civil servants, and farmers, as well
as the parents of the nations children. HIV/AIDS has put a strain on households, agriculture,
industries, and the education sector. The strain on the health care services and community
and home-based care is high in the DRC as in other African countries32.

Further, in the DRC, it is estimated that 770,000 children (0-17 years) have been orphaned
by AIDS33. Many of these children have difficulties in paying school fees and therefore
attending school.

 HIV/AIDS Policies and Programs
 Government
In the DRC, the fight against HIV/AIDS is headed by the Government, and supported by
UNAIDS, World Health Organization (WHO), donors and international NGOs. The multi-
sectoral approach to tackling HIV/AIDS is coordinated by a Multi-sectoral National Committee
established under the Presidents Office with the mandate to (i) define national policies
related to fight AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases (STD); (ii) validate the National
HIV/AIDS Plan; (iii) coordinate sectors and actors in the fight against HIV/AIDS; (iv)
coordinate program activities; and to (v) evaluate the effectiveness of the programs.

The National Policy for HIV/AIDS for 2002-200834 guides programs against HIV/AIDS. This
policy is based on the premise that HIV/AIDS hinders the development of the country, so
promotion of a favourable social, political, and economic environment is recognised as
essential for effective prevention, control, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS. The Ministry of
Healths (MoH) National AIDS Control Program spearheads the DRCs HIV/AIDS Program ­
the National Multi-Sectoral Program for the Fight Against AIDS (PMNLS), launched in 2001 -
facilitates a multi-sectoral approach35 in tackling STI and HIV/AIDS in the DRC. The PNMLS
has four components for operationalization, as indicated in Table 1.

Table 1       Components of PNMLS
1. Prevention:                               3. Impact alleviation
- Promotion of responsible sexuality - Care and support of orphans and other
   (abstinence, fidelity, condoms, non-risky     affected groups
   sexual behavior)                          - Fight          against        discrimination,
- Testing of blood for transfusion               stigmatization and rejection of PLWHAs

30
   UNDP/United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPs) 2003.
31
   GoDRC 2002. Interim PRSP
32
   Bollinger L and Stover J 1999. The Economic Impact of AIDS in the Congo (DRC)
33
   UNAIDS 2004. Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic
34
   1999. The National Policy on HIV/AIDS 2002-2008
35
   UNAIDS, UNDP and World Food Program (WFP), March - May 2004. Institutional Audit of HIV/AIDS Programs


                                                   22
                                                                               DRC Country Report



- Prevention         of       mother-to-child       - Targeting high risk populations
   transmission (emphasised in recent               - Alleviation of the economic impact
   years)
- Prevention, management and treatment
   of STIs
2. Care and support to PLWHA                        4. Other areas
- VCT                                               - Research
- Treatment of opportunistic infections             - Management process
- Anti-retroviral drugs (ARV)                       - Epidemiological surveillance     (sentinel
- Psychological care and support                       sites)
- Social care and support of PLWHAs

A strategic plan has been developed to operationalize the PNMLS36, which covers the period
from 2002 to 2008. Unfortunately, insecurity and political instability in the country, as well as
limited funds have restricted the implementation of the Plan. The Plan focuses on partnership
between all actors, on the key role of PLWHAs, and on the mobilization of communities and
peoples organizations to influence positive and lasting behavior change. Unfortunately, over
the past several years, the political and military crisis in the country has slowed down
HIV/AIDS prevention, control and care activities. Only recently, has the government been
able to commence implementing multi-sectoral programs, and decentralizing HIV/AIDS
activities. Increased funding has prompted the increased action on HIV/AIDS.

 Donors
The government program on HIV/AIDS is complimented and supported by the World Bank-
funded Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP), which has recently commenced in the DRC. The
MAP mechanism has four components: (i) Public sector; (ii) Non-governmental sector
(private enterprises, NGOs, Churches); (iii) Community sector; and (iv) Management and co-
ordination. The activities under MAP follow the components of the national program listed in
Table 1. A mechanism for coordinating the two programs has been established to ensure
activities are harmonised and integrated at local levels.

The AIDS Global Fund is also funding activities to fight HIV/AIDS in the DRC through public-
private partnerships for a sustainable involvement to reduce infection, morbidity and mortality
due to HIV/AIDS. Through its Country Co-coordinating Mechanism, public sector, private
sector, non-governmental sector and community stakeholders, as well PLWHA, are all
involved in implementing projects funded by the Global Fund.

Other multilateral donor stakeholders include UNAIDS, whose role is to coordinate the UN
HIV/AIDS efforts and to support the national government to develop adequate policy and
programs; United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM); WHO; United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP); United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA); United Nations
Childrens Fund (UNICEF); United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR); and
World Food Program (WFP) are also involved in the HIV/AIDS programs in the DRC.
Bilateral donors, including the United States International Development Agency (USAID), the
French Government, Belgium Government, GTZ (German Technical Cooperation), and the
European Union also provide assistance to prevent and control HIV/AIDS in DRC.




36
     PNLS 2003. Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS


                                               23
Social and Gender Assessment



 Non-Government Sector
NGOs - international37 and national/ regional organizations - are active in the fight against
HIV/AIDS in the DRC. The major umbrella group for Congolese NGOs is the Forum SIDA
(FODI) (Forum against AIDS) - an umbrella organization of NGOs involved in HIV/AIDS work.
NGOs act in various sectors, such as prevention and sensitization; social, economic,
psychological and medical care and support to PLWHA, orphans, host families, affected
persons; Volunteer Counseling and Testing (VCT); provision of anti-retroviral drugs (ARV);
sexually-transmitted infection (STI) management; training; and research. The capacity of
local and national NGOs has been enhanced through training from international NGOs.

Several academic bodies are also involved in research into the social and economic impacts
of HIV/AIDS in DRC. At the University of Kinshasa, the School of Public Health and the
Department of Sociology are among those two key research agencies. The Inter-Enterprise
Committee against AIDS is a private sector body established to coordinate HIV/AIDS
activities in the sector. The Inter-Clergy Commission coordinates the efforts of Christian
churches. PLWHA have also established focus and support groups.

 Weakness of Current Campaigns to Fight AIDS
Despite the positive actions highlighted above, there are still weaknesses in DRC's efforts to
fight HIV/AIDS, as identified by key informants interviewed for this assessment. Firstly, multi-
sectoral and coordination approaches remain at the level of meetings and have yet to be
operationalized on the ground. Reasons for this include a resistance in government against
the multi-sectoral approach38, limited resources, lack of motivation of government service
providers, and a proliferation of NGOs that are uncoordinated and not regulated to apply
interventions according to Government policies and best practice.

Currently, many orphans are left without any protection and there is no program to guarantee
their survival and support or provide basic education for them. Misunderstandings about
HIV/AIDS are evident in the populations, as well as in some delivery organizations. Different
actors also appear to have different attitudes and practices. Further, the population appear to
rely on the government and NGOs to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS and are not aware that
they have a role to play in the prevention and care of HIV/AIDS.
 Internally Displaced People in the DRC
 IDP Situation in DRC
As a result of the civil strife in DRC in the past 10 years, a huge number of Congolese have
fled their homes in search of security in other parts of the country. According to the UN
Organization Coordinating Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA), 2.7 million persons were
displaced in the DRC at end of January 2003, in addition to 2 million in 2002. Most of the
IDPs have been displaced on more than one occasion39. Although difficult to estimate, many
of the IDPs have "disappeared" into the forests, for example in Equateur Province. Others
(possibly as low as only 3-4 percent) are housed in camps near Kinshasa and in North Kivu
Province. Others have resettled in Kinshasa and throughout the parts of DRC that are
secure, while others are hosted in the homes of the local communities40.

37
    International NGOs include Medicines Sans Frontiers (Doctors without Borders) (MSF-Belgium and MSF-
France), Oxfam Quebec and Oxfam-GB (Great Britain), International Rescue Committee, Catholic Relief Services,
Medecines du Monde (Doctors of the World), Premiere Urgence (First Emergency), CARE, and Population
Service International (PSI).
38
   This Assessment revealed that some government agencies are not convinced that HIV/AIDS should be fought
through multi-sectoral approaches but should be approached as a medicalized intervention, concentrated under
the MoH.
39
   OCHA 2003. Report on Displaced People in the DRC
40
   Inter-Agency Mission on IDPs 2003a


                                                     24
                                                                                  DRC Country Report




In North-eastern DRC, 64,275 IDPs who fled from Ituri region in 2003 are encamped or
hosted in local communities in the northern part of North Kivu Province. Two-thirds of this
population are children under 18 years. More women than men make up this population. The
presence of numerous armed groups in Ituri region continues to spread violence and provoke
the displacement of people.

The civil conflict in the east of the country is the result of ethnic conflict between 3 tribes ­ the
Ituri (of Bantu origin), the Lendu ("farming people" of Bantu origin) and the Hema (pastoralists
of Tutsi origin). Historically, conflict between the groups for control of resources has been
frequent, and each tribe has an armed militia.

In early 2003, the Hema armed group41, was routed from Bunia in Ituri Region by the Lendu
army42 resulting in a war between these two groups. Men and the children were savagely
killed, women and girls violently raped, and property looted or destroyed. As a result, many
people of the Ituri Region began fleeing the violence by May 2003. Many hid in the forest or
fled to northern North Kivu Province around the city of Beni ­ 300 km away. Many people
died or were killed along the way, and many women and young girls were raped and
kidnapped by the militia groups. These IDPs sought refuge in host families, but as the
numbers were too great, the national and international community set up camps as refuge for
the IDPs. These camps were established in a hurried and ad hoc manner initially.

 Policies and Programs on IDPs
There is no specific government policy on IDPs in the DRC, although the government is
adopting measures to support these people at national and local government levels.
However, a program to provide social assistance to IDPs is currently being developed by the
Ministry of Social Affairs, which will support the return of IDPs from IDP camps in North Kivu
to their places of origin in Ituri region, and/or to integrate these IDPs and others into the
general population in areas in which they have taken refuge. In addition, the Ministry of
National Solidarity is also establishing a program of aid for IDPs. The commitment and efforts
of the Transitional Government to unify and to bring peace to the whole country will also help
to resolve the IDP issue by allowing many of the displaced to return to their places of origin.

OCHA facilitates emergency and humanitarian operations to assist IDPs in the DRC. Its
mandate includes dissemination of the rights of IDPs to officials and communities at local
levels, and to IDPS; facilitating the establishment of national and provincial IDP Plans of
Action; ensuring that IDPs rights are protected; and evaluating IDP situations.

Various local and international NGOs provide care and support to IDPs in the camps in the
East. The assistance provided includes food, health care, primary education, water, shelter,
and other basic necessities. Premiere Urgence (First Emergency), a French NGO, is working
in the Ituri Region in Orientale Province to restore infrastructure for the return of IDPs from
North Kivu when peace returns to the area. The Association of Displaced People supports
IDPs, especially in Kinshasa, aiming to defend the interests of IDPs and lobbying
government and international agencies for the rights of IDPs in the country. Importantly, local
communities in the DRC have played a major role in the care and support of IDPs. The
majority of IDPs live outside camps billeted in host families. These local families provide the
IDPs with food and shelter.




41
     UPC - the Union des Patriotes Congolais - Congolese Patriotic Front
42
     APC - Armée du Peuple Congolais - Congolese Peoples Army


                                                        25
Social and Gender Assessment




                        CHAPTER 3: REFUGEES AND IDP'S IN THE DRC

 Conditions of IDPs in Camps the DRC
The general conditions of IDPs43, indicate that they suffer deprivation at their places of origin,
while fleeing to safer locations, and at the place of their refuge. From our findings (see also
Chapters 3 and 4) poverty, both economic and social, underlies the situation of IDPs as they
have fled their homes with few belongings and may have lost or been separated from family
and friends. The conditions in the camps are uncomfortable and very crowded with little
infrastructure, and minimal services. The quantity and quality of food supplies is poor and
insufficient to maintain an adequate diet. Livelihood opportunities are limited and earning an
income is fraught with economic exploitation of men and sexual exploitation of women by the
host communities.

 Refugees in the DRC
In the DRC, the refugee population of 235,00044 is composed mainly of encamped Angolans
(124,000 in camps in the south west) and Sudanese (45,000 in camps in the northeast) and
dispersed populations of Rwandans and Burundians (40,000 scattered in the east). Other
groups who fled to the DRC over 20 years ago ­ Ugandans and Rwandans- have repatriated
or those few who remain have fully integrated with the Congolese population. These
refugees live in camps, forests and inaccessible places throughout the country, as shown in
Figure 1. UNHCR and its partners provide care for refugees in camps. The situation in
refugee camps is superior to the situation in IDP camps.

The Commission for Refugees in the Ministry of the Interior is responsibility for refugees. The
government policy welcomes refugees, providing them with protection and allowing them to
live amongst local people in the designated zones. Currently, according to the Commissioner
for Refugees, the majority of refugees "live amongst the Congolese population"45. The role of
the Commission for Refugees is to provide land and access to national resources, such as
water and forests. Refugees are permitted to access essential government basic services,
such as health and primary education.




43
   OCHA 2004- personal communication
44
   UNHCR 2004: UNHCR Global Report 2003; UNHCR statistics, GoDRC statistics
45
   Personal Communication with Commissioner for Refugees in the Ministry of the Interior


                                                      26
                                                                                       DRC Country Report



Figure 1           Map of Refugee Locations in the DRC




                                                        Source: UNHCR 2004. UNHCR Global Report 2003


 Returnees in the DRC
Approximately 90,000 Congolese have returned to the DRC in recent years from the Central
Africa Republic and Congo-Brazzaville46, and a further 30,000 Congolese returned from
Angola in 2004-5 in bad condition after being forced out of Angola by Angolan soldiers. Most
of them returned without any belongings and family separation was common. These
returnees are treated similarly to IDPs who are returning to, and being reintegrated into, their
homelands. As part of the planned GLIA Support Project, PNLS are planning to use GLIA
funds to build the capacity of 3 health zones in Equateur Province on the border with the
Republic of Congo47.




46
     UNHRC 2004. UNHCR Global Report 2003
47
     Personal communication with the GLIA focal pointing PNLS


                                                       27
Social and Gender Assessment



                                 STUDY SITES IN THE DRC

In the DRC, the two sites were selected for the study of encamped IDP populations in Beni
District, North Kivu Province. (i) Mukulya Camp is a small, relatively newly created in a rural
area built on a village concept with all basic services and land for kitchen garden cultivation.
(ii) Mbimbi Camp is a large camp in the Oicha urban area, in which the population live in
congested, under-served conditions. These two camps were selected to compare rural and
urban situations, and situations of reasonable versus poor living conditions.


                       LOCATION OF IDPS IN THE BENI REGION
Currently (mid-2004), 64,275 IDPs are living in camps in the Beni Region (see Annex 4).
Many more IDPs are hosted in local communities throughout this region and in other areas in
North Kivu and Orientale Provinces. The IDPs live in 6 locations in Beni Region - known as
the 6 axes because the camps lie along road routes. The location of these camps is shown in
Figure 2.

Figure 2       Map of the IDP in the Beni Region




                                                                            Source: PPSSP 2003




                                              28
                                                                                               DRC Country Report



                  MUKULYA INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE'S CAMP
Mukulya IDP Camp is located 7 km South West of the city of Beni, along the route to
Butembo in North Kivu Province, near the village of Mukulya. The camp was established in
mid 2003. It has no boundaries and is accessible by an all-weather road.

Over 1500 IDPs48 (372 households) live in Mukulya Camp. This population comprises 210
adult males, 581 boys, 275 adult females and 437 girls. Over 61 percent of the population is
under 15 years of age, and less than 1 percent is over 60 years of age. In the vulnerable
categories, 20 percent of the women are widowed (less than 1 percent of the men are
widowers); and 11 percent of the children are unaccompanied and 14 percent of the children
are orphans.

The IDPs in Mululya Camp are of the Lendu, Bira, Lokele and Nande ethnic groups. They
fled from ethnic conflict in Ituri, Bunia, Nyakunde and Komanda towns and surrounds in
Province Orientale.

The camp is a purposely designed and built camp, created by MSF-France in September
2003 in response to the overcrowding and poor living conditions in other camps around Beni.
The camp consists of a series of thirty-nine "mini-villages", each consisting of four buildings
for twelve families built around a central cooking area, with twelve adjoining garden plots.
The IDPs in this camp were voluntarily resettled in this camp from several overcrowded
camps in the vicinity.


                    MBIMBI INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE'S CAMP
Mbimbi Camp is a large camp, situated within the urban boundaries of Oicha city, 1.5 km
from the city centre. The Camp is 30 kms to the north-east of Beni on the Eringeti axis and is
60-80 km from the Ugandan border.

Mbimbi Camp has a population of 5,899 (1,163 households)49. This population comprises
869 adult males, 1,654 boys, 947 adult females and 1,540 girls. Forty-seven percent of the
population is under 15 years of age, and less than 1 percent is over 60 years of age. In the
vulnerable categories, 30 percent of the women head a household (less than 1 percent of the
men are widowers); and 12 percent of the children are unaccompanied. The ethnicity and
origin of the IDPs in Mbimbi Camp is the same as in Mukulya Camp.

The camp was established hurriedly in March or April 2003 to house the flood of IDPs who
had fled from Ituri Region and had spontaneously camped around and in the city of Oicha.


                      SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE CAMPS
Poverty is a striking presence in the IDP camps. The IDPs are not in their places of origin so
do not have their own social networks, access to their own land and assets, and have few
income-generating opportunities. The IDPs are dependent on aid ­ food50, services, water, 1
blanket and 2 pots per household, and occasionally, clothes and rags for sanitary pads.
Children have few clothes, usually only covering their lower body. IDPs expressed feelings of
48
   Programme de Promotion des Soins de Santé Primaires (Program for the Promotion of Primary Health Care)
(PPSSP). PPSSP Survey, May 2004
49
   PPSSP Survey, May 2004
50
   Food is delivered to IDPs by Solidarité (French NGO), and distributed with the assistance of the Camp
Committee. Only approximately 60 percent of an adult ratio of 2,100 kcals per day is available, which means that
the ratio distributed is not enough to maintain an adult body in good health and for children to grow satisfactorily.
There is little food variety as mentioned above.



                                                        29
Social and Gender Assessment



powerless to influence their current circumstances. Many are psychologically traumatized by
the events of the war, the journey to the camps, and their exploitation by the local population.

IDPs are able to seek daily labour within nearby communities on farms and in towns and
cities. Women and men may travel up to 30 km each day for work. Even adolescent boys
and girls, including students, from 14 years old search for livelihood opportunities to assist
their families survive and/or pay school fees. The scarcity of work opportunities and the high
demand means that IDPs will accept low remuneration for work. Most of the work undertaken
by the IDPs requires long hours for little remuneration for men, and in the case of women,
long hours, little remuneration and provision of sexual favours to the host employers.
Examples include:

      For producing 200 litres of palm oil, an IDP receives two 72ml bottles of oil as
      remuneration.
      Remuneration for making 20 sacks of charcoal from one palm tree, which takes 2-3
      weeks, earns an IDP 10-20 FrC (USD $0.13)51 per kg, or 3kg of charcoal.
      Remuneration for a man loading timber all day some 30 km from Oicha city and then
      unloading in Oicha is USD 1 per day.
      Collection and transportation of wood by bicycle for one day earns an IDP man $3 USD
      but from this he must pay $2 USD for bicycle hire and if the bicycle needs repair the IDP
      must pay.
      For collection and carrying approximately 50 kg of firewood are paid 10 FrC ($0.025
      USD) per km. They may sleep on the way and walk for 30 km (a total of $0.75 USD).
      For working in the field for 3 weeks pays $5 USD per person.
      Brewing alcohol from bananas at the hosts banana farm earns one bottle of alcohol.
      Collecting water by truck ­ pays 10FrC for every 20 litre jerry can filled.

The poverty appeared to be worse in Mbimbi Camp than in Mukulya Camp for the following
reasons, which are outlined in Table 2 below. The camp is overcrowded and congested, with
IDPs living in very temporary and flimsy blandes. Fewer children were reported to attend
school, food security was lower as the IDPs in Mbimbi have no access to land for cultivation,
and there was a reported higher incidence of disease. There was much idleness observed
and a strong feeling of powerlessness pervaded the camp.




51
     383 FrC = 1USD


                                               30
     Social and Gender Assessment




     Table 2          Conditions and Difference in Mukulya and Mbimbi Camps

           Characteristic                               Mukulya Camp                                                          Mbimbi Camp

          Housing               Mud, stick and thatch ­ traditional type.                            Blande of blue plastic sheeting, small, hot, leaks and
                                Conditions not congested.                                            blindingly reflective in sun.
                                Public places exist.                                                 Over-crowding and congestion within camp and within
                                                                                                     households.
                                                                                                     The physical situation is worse than in Mukulya Camp.
          Arrangement      of Arranged into mini-villages of 12 families with a central              Blandes are arranged in rows (blocks) 2 metres apart
          camp                kitchen, piped water, sanitation facilities and family                 and right on the street. There is no shade, no cooking
                              gardens for each family                                                places, no space for activities, and no public places.
                                                                                                     The camp is hot and dusty.
          Water                 Ample water is available in the camp for IDPs and host               Water in the camp is limited so IDPs must access a well
                                community ­ provided by NGOs                                         (provided by Oxfam and taken over by the host
                                                                                                     community) just outside the camp. The host community
31




                                                                                                     operate and manage the well, charging a fee of 50 FrC
                                                                                                     ($0.65 USD) per month is charged to IDP households.
          Sanitation            Yes in each mini-village                                             No but it is planned
          Primary Education     Free and accessible for at least 20% of the school age               School children study in host population schools, which
                                IDP children. NGO52 rehabilitated the local Mukulya                  was rehabilitated NRC53 in collaboration with UNICEF.
                                village public school in exchange for a 20% quota of IDP             However, despite this, IDP children must pay a fee of 550
                                children to attend. Primary education is free.                       FrC (~$7 USD) per trimester, which limits attendance. If
                                Low quota set for IDP children, distance to the school,              the IDP students cannot pay (and less than 10 percent of
                                insecurity en route, and poverty in IDP households                   parents can afford fees), the children are sent away from
                                (children outside quota must pay fees of 550 FrC / term,             school until payment is made. Headmasters show no
                                causes many IDP children do not attend school.                       leniency towards IDPs54. There is discrimination against
                                                                                                     the IDP children by the other students, who say "They
                                                                                                     smell like manioc or plastic sheeting".

     52
        Norway Refugee Council (NRC) was responsible for renovation of the school, in collaboration with UNICEF, under the Programme Teachers Emergency Package (TEP) ­ a
     program for training teachers to teach IDP students in 8 months. TEP concentrates a part of Sexual Education course in teaching about HIV/AIDS. The Catholic Church has
     also rehabilitated schools.
     53
        Norwegian Refugee Council
     54
        A 16 year old student quoted teachers in Mbimbi Camp "You have maize flower and plastic sheeting, go and sell them to earn money for your school".
Social and Gender Assessment



      Characteristic                               Mukulya Camp                                                          Mbimbi Camp

     Health Status    High burden of disease55 ­ diarrhoea without blood                        Hygiene is low and soap is lacking. Intestinal parasites
                      (2.4%), respiratory infections (21%), STIs (3.7% of                       and skin diseases are common57. Otherwise, similar
                      adults), intestinal parasites, malnutrition (0.9%), allergies             diseases as those in the Mukulya Camp also affect the
                      (9%), malaria (11%- higher than host population) and                      IDPs in Mbimbi Camp.
                      trauma56
     Health Centre in In the camp operated by MSF-France. Services are free                     Not in camp ­ free care in MSF health centre 5 km away;
     camp             to both IDPs and host community. Drugs and condoms                        but private clinics and pharmacies nearby in city ­ these
                      are available. Staff (doctor and nurse) are trained. STI                  charge a fee for service.
                      cases are referred to the general hospital in Beni. There                 The nearest health centre is operated by MSF-France at
                      is no blood bank.                                                         Tenamba ­ 5 km from the camp. It provides free care to
                                                                                                IDPs and host community, however the local staff
                                                                                                reportedly favour clients from the host population. IDPs
                                                                                                complain about the favouritism, distance, being only
                                                                                                provided with paracetamol, and always receiving
                                                                                                negative laboratory test results.
                                                                                                The NGO, Merlin, did construct a health centre for the
                                                                                                camp, but due to tension with the host community, the
                                                                                                centre was handed over to the Beni Health Zone for use
                                                                                                by the host population only.
                                                                                                There are private clinics in Oicha, which charge a fee for
                                                                                                service for IDPs and the local population alike. IDPs can
                                                                                                rarely afford to pay this.
     Condom                 Yes ­ freely available from health centre                           No- must be purchased from shops
     distribution      in
     camp




55
   IDPs made up 57% of cases reported in the Health Zone- Beni Health Zone reports 2003; and PPSSP reported 65% of malaria cases in its catchment were IDPs
56
   PPSSP 2003.
57
   Worms are high in camps served by PPSSP ­ 76% of cases were IDPs; Scabies­ 68% of cases were IDPs


                                                                                  32
                                                                                                                                DRC Country Report



      Characteristic                          Mukulya Camp                                                Mbimbi Camp

     Livelihood        Limited opportunities but each family has a plot of land More opportunities than Mukulya Camp in and around
     opportunities     for growing household vegetables.                           Oicha city.
                       IDPs can seek daily labour mostly on nearby farms.          The income-generating activities include (i) selling
                                                                                   bananas, maize flour, new white plastic sheeting, and
                                                                                   cassava flour to the host community; (ii) making palm oil
                                                                                   or charcoal; (iii) brewing alcohol from bananas or palm
                                                                                   wine; (iv) provision of casual labour; and (v) the operation
                                                                                   of small shops in the camp.
                                                                                   Many traders and truckers provide the opportunity for sex
                                                                                   work.
     Food Security     Receive food distributions of 2 kg beans, 6 kg maize Receive food distributions of 2 kg beans, 6 kg maize
                       flour, and 0.5 litre of salt/person per household per month flour, and 0.5 litre of salt/person per household per month
                       ­ 60% of the daily WHO recommended ration.                  ­ less than daily WHO recommended ration
                       Able to supplement ration with vegetables grown in Meat, eggs and other food is available through trading
                       garden plot.                                                non-food items, work or sex with host population
                       Meat, eggs and other food is available through trading
                       non-food items, work or sex with host population.
33




     Land          for Yes - vegetables and small crops                            No land for cultivation
     cultivation
     Malnutrition      Malnutrition is 6% for children under 5 years compared to
                       0.3% for Beni Health Zone
     Governance        An elected Committee of 12 IDPs administers the camp. The committee is responsible for the well-being of the IDPs -
                       discipline, food and distribution lists for food and non-food items. In Mbimbi Camp, the President the Camp
                       Committee and the members of the Committee are very young as the older members have been displaced - youth
                       were seen as being a little more educated and entrepreneurial. The local government authority, including the
                       municipal authorities, has never visited the camps.
Social and Gender Assessment


Health status has improved in the IDP camps around Beni in last 12 months as a result
of malaria prevention education and prophylaxis distribution, increased provision of
safe water, improved hygiene, information, education and communication material on
STIs, and treatment of acute respiratory illness and intestinal parasites58.

Sexual violence is also reportedly high in the IDP population - 113 were reported in
January to May 2004. Military personnel are the main perpetrators, which comprise 80
percent of the reported cases.


      RELATIONS BETWEEN THE HOST AND REFUGEE AND INTERNALLY
                     DISPLACED POPULATIONS
As mentioned above, the IDPs in the Beni area are employment discriminated against
by the host population. They are treated as cheap labour and sexual partners. The
IDPs are discriminated against being paid very low levels of remuneration for hard and
long work hours. Demands are made on IDP women for sex in return for employment,
which the IDPs are powerless to refuse. Even the Nandu, who originated from Beni
area before living in Ituri, are not welcomed back to Beni and are discriminated against
in the same manner as other ethnic groups.

Except for the employment discrimination mentioned above, relations between the host
community and the IDPs around Mukulya village are relatively good. Host and IDP
children attend the same school; and both populations share the same water sources
and attend the same health centre. The host community in Mukulya village appreciate
the presence of the IDPs in that because of them, international NGOs have renovated
the local primary school, and provided safe water and a health centre. The two
populations interact socially and there was one marriage cited between the two
populations.

However, around Mbimbi Camp in Oicha urban area, tensions exist between the IDPs
and the host community. The host community objects to the IDPs being served by
international and local NGOs, while the host community feel that their living conditions
are inadequate. This tension has manifested in the NGO-constructed health centre
being closed to IDPs and open only to the host community, and the take over of the
NGO-constructed well by the host community.


                                HIV/AIDS IN THE IDP CAMPS
 HIV/AIDS Prevalence
HIV prevalence is not measured in the IDP population, nor does the Beni Health Zone
collect HIV prevalence figures because testing facilities are limited. However, in Bunia,
close to the place of origin of the IDPs, the prevalence of HIV in the general population
(women attending pre-natal clinics) is 3.2 percent.

In Mukulya Camp, fifteen cases of suspected clinical AIDS cases were reported in
2003. As there is no health centre in Mbimbi Camp, estimates of AIDS and STI cases
are not available. STI is a predisposing factor for HIV infection. In the area covered by
PPSSP in the Beni Region ­ 73 percent of all cases of STI reported in 2003 in the Beni
Health Zone were IDPs59. In the Mukulya Camp, presentation at the health centre with
symptomatic STI would equal a prevalence rate of 23 percent if there were no follow-up
visits. Although, this figure is exaggerated, it gives an indication of the high prevalence
of STI in IDPs.

58
     Personal communication, and NGO reports of PPSSP 2003; Merlin 2003
59
     Beni Health Zone Report 2003

                                                  34
                                                                       DRC Country Report


 HIV/AIDS Programs
NGOs operate a wide selection of activities to prevent HIV transmission in the IDP
camps, as well as in the host community in the Beni area. For example, the NGO,
PPSSP, covers more than 70 percent of the IDPs camps, schools and local villages
with HIV/AIDS and STI awareness-raising programs. EPVi runs occasional activities in
HIV/AIDS prevention in IDP camps. In addition, a co-ordination mechanism for all
involved in fighting HIV has been set up.

In Mukulya Camp, the MSF-run health centre provides general medical services,
including the provision of condoms. In the camp, there is no treatment for STIs and all
cases patients are referred to the Beni General Hospital. HIV/AIDS/STI sensitization is
provided by a national NGO - PPSSP - and a local NGO - EPVi (Espoir Pour la Vie or
Hope for Life).

In Mbimbi Camp, the HIV/AIDS program consists only of awareness-raising and a
limited very distribution of condoms. The NGOs- EPVi and PPSSP- provide HIV/AIDS
sensitisation, and a limited supply of condoms. EPVi also supplies condoms on an ad
hoc basis to the host population.


                           CONGOLESE HOST POPULATIONS
The host community living near Mukulya Camp, is rural Mukulya village, which is
located 1km from Mukulya IDP Camp. It is a village of 700-800 people. The major
livelihood activity is agriculture, as well as the preparation of palm oil and charcoal,
trading, and small-scale gold mining. The village has a small administrative office and
police station, but otherwise relies on Beni City for all other administrative needs.

The host population around Mbmimbi Camp are the residents of the city of Oicha ­
some 31,789 people. Oicha is a major administrative and trading centre situated
between Beni and the Ugandan border. The majority of its population are engaged in
timber, fisheries, gold mining and agricultural products, including palm oil, grains and
cassava. The weekly market in Oicha is large and attracts traders from neighbouring
regions. Prostitution in and around the market is a major activity, and is a major
opportunity for women to earn a livelihood. Discussions were held with the people living
near the camp and at the large weekly market in the city centre, which is attended by
many IDPs from the camp as well as the local population.

A similar set of diseases affects the host population as the IDP population, although the
incidence and prevalence of these conditions appears to be higher in the IDP
population. Malaria and acute respiratory infections are responsible for the highest
morbidity and mortality rates in both the host and IDP populations. Notably, in Mukulya
Camp, malnutrition of children under 5 years is 6 percent compared to 0.3 percent in
Beni Health Zone60.

In general, the host population of the Beni region although living in an isolated, under-
served region of the DRC. However, they are less poor both materially and non-
materially than the IDPs who live in their midst because the host community has the
security of their own homes and assets, has livelihood opportunities, has not suffered
the trauma of ethnic violence, has access to a variety of nutritious foodstuffs, and has
the social security of family and community. In common with the IDPs, the host
population is also harassed by the military for to contribute food and money.




60
     Beni Health Zone 2003 and PPSSP 2003

                                            35
Social and Gender Assessment


The local host populations have access to
safe water, sanitation, health and education61              "We have a lot of thanks for their [IDP]
services. Some of these services have been                  presence for in our lands. We now have
provided or rehabilitated by NGOs serving                   water, free health care, our school repaired,
the IDPs, especially in Mukulya village where               the cheapest workforce [the IDPs], the
the population is thankful to the NGOs for                  cheapest maize flower [IDP ration], and the
their contribution, as shown in the adjoining               cheapest sex. It will be hard for us when
textbox. Further, some of the NGOs serving                  they leave here. I hope that day is not
the IDPs also serve the host population. For                tomorrow." Men in Mukulya village
example, PPSSP provides HIV/STI services
­ sensitization and condom distribution.

 HIV/AIDS in Host Communities
To date, 9,154 people have been tested for the HIV virus in the Beni Health Zone. Of
these, 684 cases were sero-positive (7.5 percent)62. The prevalence for the North Kivu
Province is 5.4 percent, although the sentinel site was Goma, a border transit town
some 413km south of Beni. In nearby Bunia, the HIV prevalence is 3.2 percent and 6.5
percent63 in Orientale Province, from where the IDPs originate. Three-hundred and
thirty-three clinical cases of AIDS were reported in 2003 in Beni Health Zone 64.

The DRC Governments National HIV/AIDS/STI Program is operating in North Kivu
Province. However, this program includes little HIV/AIDS awareness-raising, and
mainly focuses on diagnosis and treatment of AIDS and STI cases, for which the user
pays. The implementation of the National Multi-sectoral Programme to Fight AIDS had
not yet come on-line at the time of the Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS in
IDPs in DRC. When it does, it will help to elaborate and tailor local responses to
HIV/AIDS65.




61
   Education is provided by a combination of government, church and NGO resources.
62
   Beni Health Zone 2003
63
   CDC 2004. National HIV Sero-Prevalence Survey of DRC
64
   Beni Health Zone 2003
65
   The National Multi-sectoral Programme to Fight AIDS is intended to be participatory at all levels and will
establish local activities. Resources will be provided by the international community, including the Global
Fund.

                                                     36
                                                                         DRC Country Report



     CHAPTER 4: KEY FINDINGS OF THE GENDER AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT

The findings of this assessment of IDPs in Beni region of Eastern DRC, show that
despite reasonable knowledge of HIV and AIDS in IDP and host populations and the
availability of condoms in many cases, the high risk behavior that overwhelmingly
produces a situation of vulnerability to HIV infection and transmission in both
populations is unprotected sex, often with multiple partners, outside a permanent
relationship. This behavior included prostitution involving commercial female sex
workers, sex-bartering by poor IDP women, infidelity in married couples, and high
sexual activity in youth. In addition, to high risk sexual behavior, the multiple use of
non-sterile blades for hair cutting and traditional healing techniques also present
avenues for the spread of the HIV virus in the IDP and the host populations.

The findings of the assessment indicate the following clusters of factors influence the
transmission of HIV in both IDP populations assessed.
1.    Knowledge, attitudes and behavior regarding sex and HIV/AIDS
2.    Early sex
3.    Limited livelihood opportunities and resulting limited access to food and basic
      necessities that leads to exploitation at the hands of the host population
4.    Changes in the traditional gender roles in the household, especially mens roles
5.    Social and economic gatherings
6.    Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV)
7.    Use of non-sterile sharp utensils to cut hair and administer herbal medicine

In Mbimbi Camp, additional factors included:
1.   Congestion in the camp
2.   Limited and distant health services
3.   Increased opportunities for transactional sex as a result of the camps location in
     the urban trading city of Oicha.

Analysis of the data indicated that social and economic poverty associated with
displacement is a factor that has increased the vulnerability of IDPs to HIV/AIDS in
comparison with the host Nande population. Specifically, the host population does not
face issues of encampment and congestion, nor does it face the same livelihood and
food access pressures as the IDPs, which in turn have lead to an increased a shift in
household gender roles in IDP families.

Poverty emerged as an overarching factor influencing HIV transmission among the
IDPs and between IDPs and the surrounding populations in the Eastern DRC. And
while many people in the host population are also poor, the poverty experienced by the
IDPs is of a deeper and multi-facetted nature, which focuses the IDPs fully on day-to-
day survival. And although theoretical knowledge about HIV transmission and the
incurability of AIDS is high, and condoms are available, high-risk sexual activity
continues as a means of survival for many families.

Against this background of multi-faceted poverty, many factors contribute to HIV
transmission. These factors are inter-related and complex. Three key factors were
identified that drive the transmission of HIV in the IDP populations assessed in Eastern
DRC:

1.    Attitudes to condoms and sex
2.    Displacement and uncertainty about, or inability, to return home
3.    Traditional habits and customs

Overlying these factors is the isolation of Eastern DRC, and the general inadequacy of
countrys health service delivery mechanism, and the nascent HIV/AIDS program that
                                           37
Social and Gender Assessment


is not fully operational. Each of these factors leads to another set of factors, which
maintains the vulnerability to the spread of HIV/AIDS. The remainder of this chapter
analyses these driving, or primary, factors and the maintaining, or secondary, factors,
comparing the two IDP populations - rural Mukulya Camp and urban Mbimbi Camp -
and host populations. It is noted that although these groups of factors are discussed
separately, the factors overlap and compound upon each other.

In conjunction, it appears that factors influencing HIV transmission operate at three
levels, which are linked and could be seen as concentric circles:
(i)     At the centre is individual behavior ­ knowledge, attitudes and practices, such
        as sexual preferences, idleness, behavior as a result of camp congestion,
        drinking of alcohol, behavior at social gatherings, and women transacting sex
        for gain.
(ii)    Secondly, there is the household level ­ restrictions in livelihood activities and
        opportunities, and poor food security, which leads to economic exploitation of
        men by the host population as sexual as well as economic exploitation of
        women in meeting these basic needs.
(iii)   Finally, the outer most circle is the abnormal and weakened social structures
        that have resulted from displacement, and which undermine traditional norms
        and checks on social and sexual behavior, and have lead to shifts in gender
        roles in IDP households.

Overlaying these levels of influencing factors are the interplay of gender roles,
responsibilities, and power relations, particularly the unequal balance of power
between IDP women in search of basic resources for the household and host men with
needed goods, jobs and money.


      ATTITUDES TO SEX AND CONDOMS, AND SEXUAL PRACTICES
Despite reasonable levels of knowledge concerning the nature of HIV, modes of
transmission of the virus, methods of preventing infection, and the fatal nature of AIDS,
high risk sexual activity was high amongst the IDPs, especially in Mbimbi Camp, and
between IDPs and the host population. This assessment revealed that several attitudes
to sex and to condoms influence high-risk sexual practices: (i) the taboo governing
speaking about sex in public and in the household; (ii) religious teachings; (iii) personal
preferences not to use condoms. In addition, certain practices concerning sex also
influence high risk sexual behavior: (i) early age of first sexual intercourse, mainly
forced; (ii) the high level of promiscuous behavior observed in both the host and IDP
populations; and the (iii) shifts in gender roles in IDP households (further discussed in
Section 3.5.2).

 Knowledge about HIV/AIDS
In both the IDP populations and the host communities studied, a high level of
knowledge regarding HIV/AIDS ­ its cause, modes of transmission and prevention -
was exhibited. The respondents attributed this knowledge to education received
through the media, primary and secondary school, and through public awareness
campaigns run by the government or the NGOs working in the camps and local area.
Even children in the 10-14 year age group knew about AIDS ­ calling it "sinadawa" (i.e.
disease without medicine). Although all groups of IDPs (10 years to >60 years) had
adequate knowledge of HIV/AIDS transmission and prevention, males from 15-25
years from both populations had the best knowledge of the virus, the disease and all
methods of prevention.




                                            38
                                                                                  DRC Country Report


 Sex is a Taboo Subject
In the Beni region, as in most provinces in DRC, talking about sex in public or in the
family is a taboo. This situation influences HIV transmission in that it does not allow
parents to guide and counsel their children on sex, sexuality and the prevention of STI
and HIV infection. In addition, adult men and women are not comfortable attending
public meetings that discuss sex, HIV/AIDS and condom use. In Mukulya Camp, adult
men stated that HIV/AIDS sensitisation is for youth only, so not only do they not attend
seminars; they said they prefer to continue their ways of having sex outside of marriage
without condoms. This factor, coupled with the breakdown in social norms in the IDP
camps, and concomitant weakened parental control in families, appears to be leading
to IDP youth adopt sexual practices that would have been against tradition in their
places of origin.

 Negative Attitudes to Condom Use
In general, attitudes to condoms in both the IDP populations and the host populations
were ambiguous. All age groups, in all populations assessed, knew what condoms
were and their function; however, there was seeming reluctance to use them or to be
known to use them. Further, condoms are available to the IDPs. In Mukulya Camp,
condoms are distributed free of charge in the NGO-run health centre. Male youth
access them readily, but women do not access these condoms at all, and older men
access them only indirectly through the male youth. Women do not request the
condoms for fear of the shame of being known. In the host population and in Mbimbi
Camp, condoms are not available through health centre and must be purchased from
kiosks and shops.

Several reasons emerged why condom use is inconsistent and ambiguous given the
knowledge of HIV and AIDS. Many IDPs felt that their religion is inconsistent with
condom use because infidelity is prohibited in the Bible ­ although this does not
minimize the infidelity observed in the camps and the host population. Religious
leaders heavy insistence on fidelity and abstinence in their sermons, making an
analogy that using condoms "is like putting the seeds of life into a plastic [bag] and
throwing it away.......It is wasting God's present.... [the person] is against God.66". It
was also reported that religious pastors disrupt HIV/AIDS awareness seminars given
by NGOs in the IDP camps, with cries that the seminars are turning people against
God. This tension between religious leaders and the NGOs supporting IDPs and those
providing HIV/AIDS education to IDP and host populations is in danger of undermining
all HIV/AIDS prevention interventions. It had reached a level of seriousness when the
researchers were undertaking this assessment that the NGOs had called for a meeting
between the Church leaders and key NGOs to try and work together to reduce the
spread of HIV/AIDS in the area.

A stronger reason for not using condoms was the personal preference of the man. This
lead men to pay a higher price for sex without a condom, and women wanting to earn
money from sex accepting this situation in order to maximise their incomes and
because they do not have the power to negotiate. All men interviewed in both the IDP
and host populations, but also women in the female focus group in the camps, said that
sex is more pleasurable (heightened penile sensation for men) with skin-to-skin contact
("ngosi kua ngosi"). Subsidiary reasons given for not using condoms included a fear
that expressed by male and female youth that the condom could get stuck inside the
womans vagina. Also few IDPs or members of the host population knew anyone who
was infected with HIV or had died of AIDS, so HIV was seen as a distant threat that
had not yet really entered their camp or town.


66
   Reported by IDPs in Mukulya Camp as part of a sermon delivered by a 55 year old pastor from the city
of Beni

                                                  39
Social and Gender Assessment


More IDP youth reported using condoms, and they in turn reported older men were
using condoms, in Mukulya Camp than in Mbimbi Camp. The explanation for this
probably lies in the availability of condoms from the health centre in Mukulya Camp. In
Mbimbi Camp there is no health centre distributing free condoms and even the health
centre 5 km away does not distribute condoms. Male youth from Mbimbi Camp
reported that the 50 FrC for 3 condoms was unaffordable to them. This was the
equivalent of a days work. Adult men over 30 years in the host communities
neighbouring the IDP camps, reported using condoms never or at best, inconsistently.
Male youth (16-25 years) from Mukulya village reported getting condoms free from the
Mukulya Camp Health Centre, while youth in Oicha city said they bought condoms if
they needed them. Upon verifying this data with female partners of these youth, it still
appears that donning a condom is inconsistent amongst male host youth, although
HIV/AIDS knowledge is high and condoms are available. It appears that the desire for
heightened penile sensation through direct skin contact outweighs the risk of HIV
infection. Female youth had no negotiating power about the sex act.

Culturally, the use of condoms inside a marriage was viewed as ridiculous by both the
host and IDP populations. If a man suggested using a condom to his wife she would
suspect him of having an affair and this would lead to disharmony in the household.

 AIDS ­ A Distant Danger
The current situation of IDPs was said to have
changed their priorities in life. HIV/AIDS was     "If I have to die, there is no difference
just not on their agenda! IDPs were worrying       between dying of AIDS and dying of high
less about the long term dangers of dying of       blood pressure [due to the stresses of
AIDS and were concentrating on their               IDP life]." A 47 year old IDP man with 6
immediate needs- be they sex as a stress           children in Mbimbi Camp who was a former
relief or sex as an opportunity for women to       chef in Komanda town in Ituri region
gain resources. Perceptions were also
expressed by the majority of adult IDPs aged between 30 and 50 years that
opportunities for "catching" HIV and therefore dying of AIDS are numerous and
unavoidable in the lives of IDPs so there is no need to take precautions against HIV
infection. Understandably based on these perceptions, condoms are not a priority for
adult IDPs, as expressed in the quote in the textbox.

 Practices Concerning Sex
 Early Age at First Sexual Intercourse
IDP girls as young as 12 years old were reported to have sex for money or goods. It
was reported that girls between 12 and 17 years regularly had sex for money, cosmetic
products, food, basic needs, and ration tickets. In desperation in Mbimbi Camp, some
poverty-stricken mothers were said to send their daughters to go out and find a suitable
man to barter sex for food, especially sugar and meat, or money. These girls then
brought their earnings back as a contribution to the family survival. They were said by
adult women to play a more financially important role than their fathers in such
households. This situation has arisen in part due to the preference of men in both the
host and the IDP populations for very young girls as they believe that having sex with a
young virgin makes them more virile - younger and stronger. Further, for these men
sex with young girls was a HIV prevention mechanism as they believed that these girls
would not be infected with HIV. There was also a belief expressed in the host
population that sex with a young girl can help cure HIV infection. The need to dispel
these misconceptions was obvious.




                                          40
                                                                          DRC Country Report


Young female students who arrived late for school in
                                                             "The teachers demand and have
Mukulya were also exploited ­ they teacher gave them
                                                             sex with IDP students. They do it
a punishment of working on the teachers farm on
Sundays, at which time sex was demanded. Such                very often. That is what we have
punishment was not meted out to girls from the host          to pay for being late or for not
community. These IDP girls were late for school              paying our fees on time." Quote
because of the 7 km distance they had to travel to           from a 16 year old female student
school each day, and the fact they could not leave the       living with her parents in Mukulya
camp early because of the heightened chance of rape          Camp. When the researcher asked
on the road to the village when traffic levels were low      whether she had already paid for
in the early morning. Such punishment was also given         being late with a teacher, the girl
if school girls were late in paying school fees, as seen
                                                             just kept silent.
in the attached textbox.

In schools in Oicha, as well as Mukulya, at which the IDPs attend with pupils from the
host community, teachers were reported by women and schoolgirls from the camps to
give students good marks in return for sexual favours. This practice appears to be
wide-spread and particularly directed to IDP girls. In Mukulya Camp, IDP women said
that said that even the brightest IDP girl may not pass her exams if she doesnt accept
sex with the teacher.

As education is viewed by IDPs as an opportunity for their childrens future, it is very
sad that in reality the school is a conduit for HIV transmission, since sex is an everyday
threat for IDP, and to a lesser extent host community, schoolgirls.

Early sex has serious consequences on the girls health and future. A high number of
teenage pregnancies were reported by the Mukulya Camp Health Centre staff and by
women in Mbimbi Camp. For example, twelve primary school girls out of twenty have
already given birth in Mukulya Camp and many try unsafe traditional abortions. Figures
were not available for comparison with the host population.

 The Extent of Promiscuous Behavior
A surprising extent of promiscuous sexual behavior (i.e. relatively unselective, casual
and indiscriminate sex that is not within the framework of a steady sexual relationship,
or occurs in multiple, simultaneous sexual relationships) existed in the IDP camps. This
high-risk behavior occurred as a result of the many inter-related factors discussed in
this report - displacement, feelings of powerlessness, inability to influence your life,
encampment, limited livelihood opportunities and ability to meet basic needs, and
gender imbalances.

The poor quality of life in IDP camps - lack of livelihood activities, frustration, idleness
and congestion ­ and the feelings of disempowerment and hopelessness were
reported by IDP leaders, women and men in both camps to cause IDPs to engage in
sexual liaisons as a stress relief, as one 25 year girl said in the Mbimbi Camp:
"Sometimes we give ourselves a small present."

Especially in Mbimbi Camp, the houses are made of plastic sheeting, they are close
together, and household members flow out onto the street to cook, eat and talk. This
congestion and lack of privacy was said to lead to sexual liaisons often hasty and in
secret. At night, sex takes place behind houses, or in the gardens in Mukulya Camp.
During the day, sex takes place in the forest (Hotel Nioka- Snake Hotel) or in the
houses of widows and non-married women when the children are outside playing.

As many of the IDPs do not have daily livelihoods, they spend most of their time
socialising in meeting places ­ either in the centre of each of the 12 household villages
in Mukulya Camp, or at the church in Mbimbi Camp where they are protected from rain

                                            41
Social and Gender Assessment


and sun. In these meeting places, cheap locally brewed alcohol is available67. Such
meeting places present opportunities for men and women to meet, drink alcohol and to
make arrangements for sex. These meeting places in the camps also present an
opportunity for the women to solicit or barter with men for sex in order to gain some
money, basic or personal needs. Beni and Oicha are the main meeting places for sex
for IDP women from the IDP camps who wish to undertake commercial sex. They use
hotels, the forest, laneways, bars and discos to have sex for money with soldiers,
traders, people in transit, other IDPs and host community men. Condoms are only used
if provided by the male customer. This is a rare occurrence according to the
commercial sex workers interviewed,

Ironically, a humanitarian agency in an attempt to provide clothes for women in Mbimbi
Camp has distributed dressing gowns, which are transparent.              Some women
deliberately wear these gowns publicly during the day, reportedly as a provocative
signal for enticing potential customers.

Sex outside of marriage has a cyclic affect on poverty in the household. When men are
unfaithful and have girlfriend(s) poverty in the
household was said to increase, however, when        "If the mother has got a boyfriend
women are unfaithful, the situation of the family    outside, the children become fat. But if
improves and survival guaranteed. Even the           the father gets a girlfriend outside,
children know this reality and sung the verse in     then the children become skinny."
the textbox for the researchers.

As Mbimbi Camp is located in the city of Oicha, which is a commercial centre of
dealers, traders, truckers, and also many hotels, pubs and markets, opportunities for
anonymous sexual activity are numerous for both the IDP and the host populations.
This includes sexual interaction
between IDP men and host                  "The market days are highly productive for sex
prostitutes, IDP men and host girls       because demand is far higher than the ordinary days.
and women, host men and IDP               It is like a curse having her menstruation on the
prostitutes, host men and IDP
                                          Thursday [so she cannot work to earn good money]."
women and girls. All of these groups
                                          A 24 year old IDP prostitute in Mbimbi Camp.
meet mostly as a result of women
looking for an opportunity to engage in sex for her survival. The Oicha market, held
every Thursday, presents an ideal opportunity for both economic and sexual
interaction, as highlighted in the attached textbox.


                 DISPLACEMENT AND INABILITY TO RETURN HOME
Forced displacement from their homeland as a result of civil unrest, and the present
uncertainty about returning home has created situations that make the IDPs vulnerable
to HIV transmission. In addition to the trauma associated with the violence that caused
IDPs to flee their homes, and with the exodus to Beni, displacement has meant that the
IDPs no longer have productive or domestic assets- they have no land, no house, no
tools, and they often fled with no money or even clothes. They no longer have control
over their own lives- they feel powerless, although there was not the feeling of
hopelessness noted in IDPs in northern Uganda or the refugees in neighbouring
Tanzania and Uganda.

This displacement has lead to the following factors that directly increase the possibility
of HIV transmission within the IDP population and between the IDP and host
populations with whom they interact.
1.    Encampment

67
     In Mbimbi Camp, this alcohol is produced in the camp by IDPs

                                                    42
                                                                                     DRC Country Report


2.     Powerlessness and exploitation by the host population
3.     Limited livelihood opportunities contributing to limited access to food and basic
       necessities
4.     A weakening of societal checks and balances and changes in societal norms,
       including shifts in household gender relations
5.     Rape during displacement from their homes

Overall, a comparison of Mukulya Camp and Mbimbi Camp revealed that transactional
sex appeared to be less frequent, and the struggle for food less severe in Mukulya
Camp compared to Mbimbi Camp. The researchers attribute this difference to the
following:
 Situation of the camp in a rural area as opposed to urban Oicha.
 The camp is less congested and crowded as each family has a decent "house",
     with adjacent cooking facilities and a communal toilet and bathroom.
 Each family has a plot of ground on which to cultivate vegetables for household
     consumption.

 Encampment
The majority of IDPs in Eastern DRC are billeted with families in the host community
and are not living in camps. However, those who are living in camps report additional
pressures that can lead to high risk sexual activity and the potential HIV transmission ­
see quotation in Case Study 1, Annex 5. This especially applies to the cramped and
poorly organised Mbimbi Camp. In a camp situation, (i) the IDPs face congestion and a
loss of privacy in ad hoc camps such as Mbimbi; (ii) they are dependent on NGOs to
supply food and services and on the host community for work; (iii) their status as a
citizen is diminished; and (iv) they feel trapped and discriminated against such that
their frustration leads to stress.

Congestion in IDP camps was seen in the close proximity of shelters and houses and
the crowded conditions within each shelter. Most camps in the Beni Region sprung up
in an ad hoc fashion to accommodate the flood of IDPs fleeing ethnic violence in early
2003. They provide uncomfortable living conditions. Mbimbi Camp is a prime example,
prompting one researcher to comment: "The camp presents a pitiful sight considering
the congestion of human beings in such a small space". Mbimbi Camp is a congested
series of dusty "streets with no trees for shade, in which semi-permanent poor quality
houses of plastic sheeting are arranged in rows less than 2 meters apart. Such
congestion does not make for privacy or for a sense of community.

Each shelter has a single room, measuring approximately three by four square metres.
It is made entirely of poor quality blue plastic sheeting, which stifling hot inside during
the day, and which reflect the sun blindingly at midday, and which leak when it rains.
There are no utensils or furniture or beds68 in the house- mattresses are small raised
earth areas covered in banana leaves or extra plastic sheeting. Each shelter houses at
least six persons ­ the parents, young and older children, girls and boys, and the
unaccompanied children and youth fostered into the family. Therefore, such shelters
provide little privacy even inside.

Mukulya Camp is different. It was a purposely built camp, being newly constructed
according to a new model designed by MSF-France (the MSF model). The living
conditions are much better. Twelve families live in four semi-detached houses made of
local materials with plastic sheets. Each living quarter consists of one small bedroom
and living room. This accommodation is similar to poorer accommodation in urban host


68
   One blanket is provided per household, and occasionally clothes and a few sanitary pads are distributed
to women, and children

                                                   43
Social and Gender Assessment


communities, but not as spacious as the situation in rural host communities, such as
Mukulya village.

                                                    Sexual activity as a result of the congestion
   "My wife is there but I cannot have sex with     and encampment was reported in both
   her as the children can see. But I have the      Mukulya and Mbimbi Camps, although
   need for sex, so if I have some money then I     sexual    activity    caused      by   these
   can do it in Beni with a prostitute in a small   encampment related factors was more
   hotel." 38 year old man in Mulkuya Camp. Many
                                                    prevalent in Mbimbi Camp, in which the
   other men reported similar situations.
                                                    stress levels as a result of the poor living
                                                    conditions were higher. This sexual activity
is likely to occur without a condom.

The crowded conditions within the individual households, was reported to totally
prevent married couples from having sex for fear of their children would see the sex
act. The parents coping mechanism to satisfy their sexual desires is to engage in
sexual intercourse with each other in "Hotel Njoka" (the forest or similar secret location)
or near the houses at night ­ they are not alone and reported that they frequently bump
into others doing the same thing. Another coping mechanism for men, which may occur
simultaneously, was to engage in sexual liaisons with other women, on a semi-
permanent or casual basis with other IDPs or prostitutes from the host community (in
order to preserve anonymity), as noted in the textbox. As money is limited for IDPs, it is
quite likely that he will not use a condom. Women in both camps stated that fewer
women than men engage in extra-marital sexual liaisons purely for pleasure.

Also adolescent children living in the same household were reported to engage in
sexual intercourse in part due to the close sleeping conditions ­ between cousins or
unaccompanied children- particularly in Mbimbi Camp but also in the second room of
houses in Mukulya Camp. Sex between adolescents within the household and between
neighbours was perceived as an everyday occurrence in Mbimbi Camp. These
adolescents had plenty of opportunity to engage in sex when the adults in the
household were outside the camp searching for food or work. Rape, defilement and
incest was also said to occur within some households in which persons from different
families lived. Rarely are any of these sexual violations reported.

Congestion is then a factor which leads to HIV/AIDS in the IDP context. The situation is
very different in host communities, even for people living in poor quality housing. In the
host community, houses are usually more durable, permanent and larger, with several
rooms, stocked with furniture, utensils, mattresses, blankets, and clothes. Parents have
a separate room and ensuing privacy. In those normal conditions, sex is taboo ­ it is
not discussed and children do not observe it. Risks of rape and incest are very low,
even non-existent since boys and girls sleep in separate rooms.

In both camps, immediate neighbors were reported to see each others movements,
including bathing. The temptation to engage in sexual relations with neighbors was
heightened by the reluctance many married couples expressed in having sex in the
crowded confines of their "houses". Opportunity during the day also plays a role in
sexual liaison between neighbors as sex may occur when the respective husband or
wife is not around and the children are in school or playing.

Life in the IDPs camps of Beni is stressful even within the household due to the
cramped and uncomfortable living conditions. Sexual liaisons were said by both
married and unmarried men and women in both camps to release the tension of camp
and IDP life. Using sex as a stress relief is linked to idleness in the camps. Some IDPs
may not leave the camp each day in search of work or food. They may stay in the
camp without anything to do. Such a situation, combined with feelings of
powerlessness and stress, may lead sexual unions to relieve stress and to fill in the

                                                    44
                                                                                     DRC Country Report


time. Such liaisons may involve alcohol consumption. Some adult IDP men and women
(aged from 25-45 years old) added that such sexual unions allow them to feel wanted,
which is in contrast to the and their experience with the host community, especially in
Oicha near Mbimbi Camp.

 Exploitation of IDPs and Feelings of Powerlessness
IDPs view their current situation as most shameful and disgraceful - being dependent
on others for some of their basic needs, the constant search for supplements to meet
their food and basic requirements, and living in a camp within their own country only
300 km from their homes for more than one year. The IDPs in both camps reported
feeling that they are "less Congolese than the other Congolese people". They do not
have any power to decide anything, no choice in what food they eat, in the clothes they
wear, in education for their children, and in supporting their families. They do not even
know what tomorrow will bring.

The situation of being IDPs causes them psychological stress. All IDPs, young and old,
men and women, expressed this powerlessness to influence as an uncertainty about
ever returning to their homes in Ituri region,
about whether family members are dead or          IDPs made statements about their life as an IDP
                                                  such as: "living as refugees in another country" yet
alive; about whether they will ever see other
                                                  they are in their own country. "It is like living at the
family again; and about whether they will be      edge of normal life" and "waiting for a change that
able to recover any of their property left        they do not have the power to create".
behind in Ituri region. IDPs experience great
sadness about being away from their
homes in Ituri ­ making statements like: "My God, they say we are fishes, when are we
going back to our own river?"69 They also expressed a loss of dignity; a uselessness to
pursue the livelihoods to which they are accustomed; and a frustration at being unable
to live normal lives- as shown in the adjoining textbox.

These feelings of powerlessness, frustration and uncertainty at being displaced and
living in camps are over and above the psychological trauma that resulted from the
horrors faced during the ethnic violence in Ituri region and during their exodus­ the
weeks of murder, rape and pillage during the conflict, and the rape, kidnap, slaughter,
exhaustion, hunger and thirst experienced in the two weeks in which they walked the
300 km to Beni region70 (some of these stories are presented in Case Study 2 in Annex
5).

Layered over this psychological trauma, the feelings of powerlessness and frustration
are the sexual and economic exploitation of the IDPs by the host population. The local
host population exploits IDPs in many ways at many levels.
   i)  In relation to IDP access to services: Local host communities discriminate
       against IDPs in terms of service use and availability ­ demanding fees for water
       and banning the IDPs from the health centre just outside Mbimbi Camp, and
       limiting primary school access for IDP children.
  ii)  In relation to the types and prices of IDP goods: Local host communities
       dictated what IDPs could sell in host community markets71 and set low prices


69
   One old man (69 years old) in Mukulya Camp cried, looking to the sky and addressing to God.
70
   The armed forces kidnapped young girls and women for their sexual needs and as a free workforce; and
young men as free workforce or killed them in case they were recruited as soldiers - since most soldiers
are male youth
71
   The IDPs are not allowed to sell the same items as the host community in the market place. IDPs
cannot set up stalls in community markets as the host community fears competition- the IDPs were said by
traders in the host community to take any price no matter how low so they could get some money for
survival. IDPs can only sell on behalf of the host community or sell those items that that host population
does not have, such as their food ration of kahunga (maize flour).

                                                   45
Social and Gender Assessment


        for IDP produced goods. To obtain a higher price while selling or exchanging
        goods often calls for sex for the IDP woman selling.
 iii)   In relation to the cost of IDP services: IDP men and women are a source of very
        cheap labour for the host communities in the Beni region. IDPs are given
        extremely low remuneration for any work that they perform. IDP women often
        need to have sex with their potential employer in order to get a job. In addition,
        IDP women who offer sexual services to host men are paid lower than
        prostitutes from the host population.
 iv)    In relation to IDP women achieving: Host community men, traders and other
        non-IDPs men who come into contact with the IDPs demand sex of IDP women
        and girls to obtain jobs, good marks in school, food, and permission to gather
        firewood on host community land. The IDPs do not have any power to
        negotiate.

The IDPs cannot bargain or even say no to the above circumstances.

IDPs, particularly in Mbimbi Camp, reported that the host community regularly insults
them when they are outside the camp because they are easily distinguished visually
from the local Nande ethnic group and they do not speak the Nande language. They
are called Mikimbizi [i.e. people running from place to place] by their fellow Congolese.
Furthering these tensions, the members of the host community consulted in Mukulya
village blame IDPs for the increasing theft and prostitution in the Beni region. At the
time of the assessment, some members of this host community had begun to demand
that the IDPs return to the Ituri region, claiming that the civil unrest in the region had
ended.

These situations of stress compound each other. They were reported by IDPs living in
both camps, and especially in Mbimbi Camp, to lead to sexual liaisons as an escape
from the sad realities of their daily lives. Adult men over 30 years of age used sex to
unwind and to find some pleasure in their otherwise sad lives. Women, both married
and unmarried, also used sex as an outlet from the exhaustion and battle of trying to
meet the households basic needs in the camp situation, as shown in Case Study 3 in
Annex 5. In the case of women, this behavior was reported to occur in unmarried
female youth, and women whose husbands were known to engage in sex outside of
the marriage.

As discussed above, an attitude of living for today pervaded the IDP camps, in which
AIDS was seen as a form of death in the long term, just like any other form of death-
death being unavoidable anyway.

 Limited Livelihood Opportunities, and Access to Food and Basic Necessities
In the IDPs camps, survival depends on the food distributed by NGOs, livelihoods
opportunities to gain additional food and basic household resources, and the
transaction of sex for gain by IDP women and girls ­ sex bartering and prostitution.

 Limited Quantity, Quality and Variety of Food
IDPs in camps are dependent on NGOs for the receipt of food and a limited quantity of
basic non-food items ­ for example, one blanket per household, occasional clothes,
and plastic sheeting. Unfortunately, the food ration received by IDP households in the
camps is less than the daily recommended number of kilocalories needed to sustain an
active adult. The ration is also monotonous ­ beans, maize flour, salt and oil distributed
monthly. The food distributed is not the customary staple of the IDPs (see Case Study
4 in Annex 5). Added to the burden of insufficient quantities of food provided by the
international community, is the monotony of the food provided, and the quality of food
that the IDPs receive. For example (See Case Study 4 Annex 5). Women and children

                                            46
                                                                                 DRC Country Report


in the IDP camps noted that beans are so hard that they take more than 4 hours to
cook. In order to cook beans for that length of time, the IDP women must collect
sufficient firewood to cook these beans. Women may be raped while searching for
firewood or if caught by the land owners, sex may be demanded if the woman does not
want the firewood to be confiscated.

IDPs adopt several coping strategies to complete their household food requirements, to
vary the type of food they eat, and to meet other basic household requirements. In
Mukulya Camp, IDP families have been allocated a plot of land adjoining their
"village72" on which they are able to cultivate some vegetables for household
consumption. Although the plots are small and IDP households are large, these plots
do provide a variety of vegetables for the IDPs in Mukulya Camp. However, these IDPs
still search for opportunities to increase the quantity of food and the variety of their diet,
mainly by working for food or cash on neighbouring host community farms. Securing
and undertaking such casual farm labour, and actually receiving their remuneration, for
women often involves providing sexual favours, without condoms, to host farmers.

In Mbimbi Camp, like most camps in the Beni region, IDPs do not have access to any
land on which to cultivate vegetables for their families. But on the other hand, Oicha
city does offer many other opportunities to obtain food and basic necessities for the
family. These opportunities go hand-in-hand with sex for most IDP women and
adolescent girls.

IDP women may exchange or sell some or all of her familys maize flour ration to the
host community but they receive little in return. Even exchanging rations or other goods
with the host community can be
facilitated with sex, as indicated in the  One 28 year old IDP widow in Mbimbi Camp said:
textbox. Sex may help to increase the      "To change the [maize] flour for something you
quantity or type of food or other          need (e.g. salt, cassava, or whatever). If you want a
goods a woman receives in return. Or       large cassava ­ you have to add sex".
she may simply choose to simply
barter sex with host community males for supplementary food, such as bananas or
cassava bread or vegetables.

The host community controls what IDPs are allowed to sell. IDPs can only sell on
behalf of the host community or sell those items that that host population does not
have, such as their food ration of kahunga (maize flour) and plastic sheeting. They are
not allowed to sell the same items as the host community in the market place and they
cannot set up stalls in community markets. The host community fears the competition
as IDPs were said by
traders in the host        "If you want to sell flour in the market - usually Beni people do not
community to take any      allow IDPs to sell in town - you must first become the girlfriend of
price no matter how        the market people and the shop-keeper. If a [IDP] man has things
low so they could get      to sell in Beni, [to sell them] he must give it to a woman as she can
some      money       for  get the place to sell." Tchamba, a male camp village chief in
survival.     However,
                           Mukulya Camp aged 46 years old and educated to Year 11
even these rules can
be bent by IDP women giving sex, as shown in the adjoining textbox.

As discussed in the following section ­ many opportunities present themselves to IDP
women for sex bartering for gain and for prostitution in and around the camps.

The field workers of NGOs and the Camp Committee, made up of IDPs, are also an
avenue for extra food. These two groups of mostly men hold power over the distribution

72
  A village is the 12 family complex containing 4 accommodation buildings, a common cooking facility,
communal toilets and bathing places, and a small garden plot for each family.

                                                 47
Social and Gender Assessment


of food and non-food items in the camps. IDP women may approach them or they are
approached by NGOs workers or camp committee members to provide sex in return for
an extra ration card, or increased rations. Female heads of households are particularly
vulnerable to sexual exploitation by the IDP Camp Committee, who may blackmail
these women for sex on the threat of removing them from the food distribution list ­
Case Study 5 in Annex 5.

As there are many invalided males, wives must get food for the family as the man
cannot work. She may provide sex in return for food or money. One 28-year old wife of
a man who was invalided after being beaten by soldiers in Ituri, now living in Mbimbi
Camp told researchers: "I do all that sex [to get food and money], but if I had my own
food, I would not have to do this."

To complete or increase food and other items, poor IDP mothers from Mbimbi Camp
were reported to send a pretty daughter of aged 12 to 17 years of age to have sex with
a trader or shopkeeper in Oicha city in order for the girl to bring home food, lotion,
soap, ration slips, or money. These girls target traders and men from Oicha - the pretty
young girls command up to USD 5 for sex without a condom. They can be seen in
Oicha weekly market.

Some IDP men cope with the small and boring meals that their wives can cobble
together in the camps by finding a girlfriend in Oicha or Beni town. When he visits this
girlfriend he will receive a delicious meal consisting of a variety of food. IDP women in
the Mbimbi Camp focus group who reported this type of liaison, complained that they
found it difficult to compete for their husbands and could only do so by bartering sex for
meat and nice fruits to serve their men. They said that the wife of such a man "must
exchange herself for food to feed the children" because the man is only interested in
looking after himself.

 Limited Livelihood Opportunities
The above problems of insufficient food and basic needs, and some of the frustrations
and feelings of powerless would be overcome if the IDPs had fair access to livelihood
activities. Instead, access to land for cultivation, other than for home gardens, is largely
non-existent, and the host community controls access to all jobs ­ who works, when,
and what remuneration is received, and livelihood opportunities ­ controls what IDPs
can sell or exchange in the market. This situation and the large numbers of IDPs
searching for opportunities to obtain money, food or basic needs leads IDPs to utilize
all possible avenues to gain food and resources for the household. Women use sex,
either commercially as a prostitute, or casually through bartering sex for resources or
money, to meet household food needs, childrens school fees and personal needs,
such as body lotion, and clothes, as required. Men take whatever work they can find,
no matter how low the payment.

The more available livelihood opportunities include collecting firewood, fetching water,
carrying items, clearing fields, carrying wood for construction, making palm oil,
producing charcoal, grinding cassava or maize (as described previously in Section 2.4).
The amount of remuneration for the
amount of hard labour is very low,      "One day, women went out in search of work for
and some of these jobs are far from     bringing produce from the land to the village. The
the camp so IDPs may have to            man employing them decided to have sex with the
travel long distances. For example,     four women if they wanted to be selected for the
women in Mbimbi Camp report
                                        job. Then he paid each only 100 FrC [$1.60 USD] per
walking more than 30 kms from
Mbimbi Camp to find casual farm         day for the work performed." A 31 year old former
labour.   En route, women are             nurse married with 5 children from Mbimbi Camp
vulnerable to sexual harassment

                                            48
                                                                      DRC Country Report


and rape by soldiers and host community men was reported. Women in the host
community did not report rape as a danger.

Women have a higher likelihood of obtaining jobs that do not need the physical
strength of men. Examples were given, by all groups of IDPs interviewed, of women
being short-listed for jobs, even when a man was more suitable or more qualified,
because she could provide sex as well as the physical labour required. Sex is the key
criterion for most casual labour jobs in the host community, even those jobs in which a
man would usually be hired, as cited in the adjoining textbox. In this case, a group of
men and women from Mbimbi Camp went into the countryside in search of farm work.
The four IDPs who were selected were all women and all agreed to have sex with
employer in return for the job.

Married women and widows, especially those with children reported feeling "badly
when their children cry for food". Such women reported having sex on an as-needed
basis in order to survive. They barter sex with IDPs for money, and with local
shopkeepers, traders, truck drivers and other men from the host population. Single
mothers (aged 18-25 years old) and women head of households reported that sex
bartering is necessary for them to obtain the basic necessities. Adolescent IDP girls
barter sex with men from the host community and with traders for items such as a
bottle of body lotion, a cake of soap, a small sachet of perfume, clothes, or money to
buy those things. Such girls may also obtain food in order to meet household needs.
These girls may engage in sex with from one or two regular partners, or they may have
multiple casual partners. Early sex is common, as reported above, and condoms are
rarely used in this age group, as indicated by the high number of teenage pregnancies.

IDP women target traders, truck drivers, NGO workers and other salaried men as they
are the most likely to pay handsomely. The Thursday market in Oicha is seen as an
excellent opportunity for young women and adolescent IDP girls to engage in
transactional sex to gain money to assist their families to meet their basic needs.

Sex bartering for survival is common in the IDPs camps assessed, more so in Mbimbi
Camp than in the Mukulya Camp. The proportion of female IDPs engaged in sexual
transactions was not calculated, but it was estimated by researchers that this practice
involves more than 50 percent of the IDP population in Mbimbi Camp, and a quarter of
those in the Mukulya Camp. The researchers assert that this difference occurs
because (i) food security of IDP households in Mukulya Camp is better than in Mbimbi
Camp due to the availability of home gardens; (ii) fewer work opportunities are present
in the rural area around the camp compared to in Oicha city where Mbimbi Camp is
located; (iii) tensions between the host community of Mukulya village and the IDPs in
the camp are fewer than in the Mbimbi-Oicha situation, and more respect exists
between the host and IDP populations; (iv) fewer opportunities exist in terms of men to
target in the countryside around the camp.

The researchers noted that IDP men do not stop, or turn a blind eye to, their wives and
daughters engaging in sexual transactions with host community men or being exploited
sexually. Several reasons are supposed to exist. The household survival depends on
the parents and adolescent children providing additional food, money or other
resources. Women and girls have an advantage over men as they can trade sex for
gain. Men cannot trade sex for the basic requirements of the household. In the few
cases reported in which IDP men do use sex for gain - having girlfriends in the host
community who provide them with nutritious food- this gain only benefits the man and
not his entire family. Around Mukulya Camp, certain jobs on host farms require men,
but there are others that can be done by women. Men realize that women have an
advantage in that they can provide sex in return for work (out competing men) and that
they often bring home more food or remuneration for the same work because they
have given in to the host mans expectation for sex. A similar situation exists for other

                                          49
Social and Gender Assessment


jobs near Oicha. Lastly, women have a resource in demand by host men that men do
not have- their bodies. Therefore, they transact sex for needed gain as casual sex
workers or as prostitutes in Oicha, Beni and even more recently in Mukulya town.

Apart from the exploitation that men and women face in obtaining work, and the need
for women to use sex to secure basic needs, the lack of livelihood opportunities also
leads to idleness in the camps. This leads to men and women gathering in the camps
to socialize, drink alcohol, play draughts and plat each others hair. Such situations
present opportunities for sexual relations just for "something to do" ­ i.e. for pleasure-
or in the case of women to gain resources, usually money.

Many people in the host communities in the Beni region are poor. They too lack many
of the basic essentials of life. However, very few of these women and girls barter sex
for resources, or become commercial sex workers compared to IDP women and girls,
especially those from Mbimbi Camp. Girls in the host community have to try to
preserve virginity for the marriage, according to their customs. This difference is
attributed by the researchers, host community women, key NGO informants and IDP
camp leaders to the fact that poor households in the host community still have reserves
for satisfying minimal basic needs and are not as desperate for survival as IDPs.
Specifically, the following factors come into play:
 Host communities have high social capital being surrounded by a community in
     which people respect and assist each another, and having all their family near
 Even poor households have domestic and productive assets
 The host population has access to land for cultivation, at least for household use
 Husbands in host community households are still the providers for the family and
     this role has not shifted to women- gender relations have not changed
 Livelihood opportunities are greater
 Poor people from the host community are not exploited
 These poor people do not face the discrimination that IDPs do- they are poor but
     respected.
 Host community members have not suffered the trauma of recent civil conflict and
     displacement nor the stresses of life in a camp.

 Prostitution
IDP women also engage in prostitution as a livelihood alternative in Beni (from Mukulya
Camp) and Oicha (from Mbimbi Camp). Unlike in IDP camps in Uganda or in refugee
camps in Uganda and Tanzania, prostitution does not take place in the camps,
although sex for pleasure and casual sex for gain does occur in the camps. The
proximity of Mbimbi Camp to Oicha city provides ample opportunities for IDP women
and girls to ply their trade in the city on a daily basis. However, for women from
Mukulya Camp the distance to Beni means that they must take up residence in Beni
city to engage in commercial sex work. Only a
few women from Mukulya Camp were said to           "Thursday market in Oicha, there is
engage in commercial sex work compared to
                                                   more     sex     interactions   than
the large numbers in Mbimbi Camp. These few
                                                   commercial interactions. When you
IDP women from Mukulya Camp were reported
to have taken up residence in Beni city and        go to the market, sometimes you see
some girls from the camp had entered a local       a man and a lady bargaining about a
        73
brothel . Therefore, IDP men who wish to hire      price but there are no goods there
the services of a prostitute, must travel to Beni  to discuss". A 24 year old woman in
or Oicha city- this is a journey of 7 km for men   Mbimbi Camp who was a student in
from Mukulya Camp.                                 Ituri region

73
  Girls in this brothel in Beni, which is run by a local business woman, were actively recruited from the
camps. However, they were exploited in that they were not paid. The Police have tried to stop this
operation but it continues.

                                                   50
                                                                                    DRC Country Report



As mentioned above, many clients are available in Oicha as it is on a major transport
route and hosts a large weekly market, which attracts many traders. Most of the
prostitutes working these markets were adolescent IDP girls. They could be seen
soliciting customers for sex each Thursday at the Oicha market. Girls who gain a good
reputation for keeping her customers happy were in high demand. Such a girl may then
initiate her younger sister into prostitution, giving her instruction and assisting her to
find the best clients in order to maximize the earnings for their family. Traders in the
market are their major clients, as witnessed by the researchers, and the many small
hotels surrounding the market the venue for sex. The host men set the process for sex.
Sex with a condom pays USD 1 and without a condom pays USD 3-5 depending on the
time of day. The traders said IDP girls are cheaper than host community prostitutes,
and are more experienced in sexual matters74. In the market, many men could be seen
bargaining with women although she had no visible goods to sell, as depicted in the
adjoining textbox.

Local host community men were said to prefer sex with IDP girls and women as the
sexual techniques performed by women from Orientale Province were more
pleasurable. Traditionally, in this province the aunts and the grandmothers teach the
girls sexual techniques and initiate them in sex performance. Also the rates for these
women and girls were cheaper that for local prostitutes.

In addition, fathers may give up hope for their daughter to be married once she reaches
23 years of age. If the father "gives up on her" and withdraws his support, she will have
to fend for herself. She may wish to start her own business but opportunities are
limited. One of her only options may be to become a prostitute.

 Weakened Societal Norms
Although not featured strongly in the research findings, quotes such as the one in the
adjoining textbox, indicated that the traditional societal norms and checks concerning
infidelity and sexual activities in general have been weakened by displacement and
encampment.

A shift was noted in gender roles in IDP households, in which the NGOs and the wives
and daughters are increasingly playing an even stronger role in providing for the family,
while such provider role as the husband may have had has eroded. Traditionally, it has
been seen as the role of the husband to provide the familys material and economic
needs, although in Africa women are actually responsible for growing and preparing
food, and putting the cooked meal on the table. With this shift, married women reported
feeling freer to do as they pleased - a factor reported to influence infidelity. Daughters
of IDP families also support the household and themselves. They may be sent to "bring
home food" or they might decide to begin fending for themselves. This issue is further
explored in Section 3.5 below.

Parents authority has been reduced as a result of the encampment of IDPs, with
younger people being reported as "doing as they please."

 Rape and Violence during Displacement
Many IDP women were raped by armed fighters and soldiers as they fled the civil strife
in the Ituri region. Not only, have these violent incidents left these women
psychologically traumatised but they maybe infected with HIV also. Those women who
were raped often continue to have sex in the camp and in the host community, not

74
 The culture in Orientale Province, from where majority of IDPs originate, allows the aunts and the grand
mother to teach the girls how to have sex to satisfy their husbands when they are still young.

                                                   51
Social and Gender Assessment


necessarily using a condom. They are a potential bridging population between the
soldiers and the general population.


                      TRADITIONAL HABITS AND CUSTOMS
Several traditional customs and habits create opportunities for HIV transmission. These
include social and religious gatherings of people; traditional diets; customs around sex;
and traditional healing techniques.

 Social Gatherings
Traditionally, social and religious events are numerous in both the IDP camps and in
the host communities. These include baptisms, funerals, marriages, sports and games,
dances, and all night prayers. In Mukulya Camp, IDPs attend these events in the host
community and vice versa. Participants contribute firewood, food, cash or work. Each
of these events provide opportunities to find sexual partners usually for pleasure, and
usually involving sexual intercourse without a condom. Except in the case of all-night
prayers, alcohol is consumed during these events, which was said to enhance the
likelihood of sexual encounters. However, sexual liaison is not dependent on the
presence of alcohol.

In the case of religious events, IDPs, both youth and adults, used the attendance of
church, fellowship and prayers as alibis to meet partners for sex. All night prayers were
reported "to allow lovers to disappear for a while" during the course of the night for
sexual intercourse. The many cases reported to the researchers show the high rates of
sexual liaison that take place these all night prayers ceremonies. On the other hand,
abiding by religious teachings and faith was reported by a group of young IDP men to
also lead to high risk sexual behavior since your girlfriend is "your sister in Christ
.......... and you have to trust her", you are forbidden to use condoms, even if you
suspect that she is bartering sex for survival.

Sport, draughts and other games, are an opportunity for male and female IDP youth to
mingle socially. Host population youth, essentially males, either participate, in the case
of Mukulya Camp, or watch such events and use the attendance as an excuse to enter
the camps. Young people also gather to
sing, talk, joke and play board games in     "My father, if I have the opportunity to make
both the camp and host community. In         love, I cant miss it and nobody can prevent me.
the IDP camps, youth said that such          I am 22 years old and I have already missed
socializing allows them to develop a         the best part of my youth. Sex is the only thing
sense of humour, which helps them to
                                             which can rehabilitate my personality". A young
forget that they are experiencing a
                                             man in Mbimbi Camp said to a researcher with a
"temporary life". All their hardships are
expressed through songs and jokes. In        deep conviction
such a relaxed atmosphere sex is seen
as a by-product of the gathering and was viewed by some male youth as boosting their
self-confidence, as shown indicated in the adjoining textbox.

 Limited Food Options
The food distributed to the IDPs through NGOs consists mainly of maize flour and
beans, which not only lacks variety and is of insufficient quantities but it is not the
customary diet of the people of Eastern DRC. The IDPs and the host population
traditionally eat green and yellow banana, meat, fish, vegetables and cassava.
Therefore, IDPs try to obtain their customary food through a variety of channels. IDP
women may exchange maize flour for food or money to buy additional foodstuffs, but
the price is set very low by the host community buyers. IDP women and men also work

                                           52
                                                                        DRC Country Report


for food or money to buy satisfactory foodstuffs. More lucrative, however, is for IDP
women to provide or promise sex in return for additional and varied food or money to
buy additional items for the family. A coping strategy for IDP men in the Oicha Camp
was reported by IDP women to be findings girlfriends from the host community in the
town so that they are served a more nutritious meal when the two meet. IDP women
reported that in this case, "sex is needed to get an extra quantity of banana or cassava
bread."

 Unsafe Health Treatment Techniques Reusing Blades - Practices of Traditional
 Healers
Limited access and quality of health care and the cultural habit of consulting traditional
healers are also factors that influence the spread of HIV. The use of traditional healers
was reported by health-related NGOs to be very high in Mbimbi Camp, where there is
no immediate access for the IDPs to a health centre. Traditional healers use blades to
cut the skin of patients to insert medicinal herbs into the incision just below the skin.
Blades are then reused on successive patients without sterilization. The traditional
healers use the same knife blade on many patients. Such behavior risks transferring
infectious diseases, such as Hepatitis and HIV, from one patient to another. This
practice exists in both the host and IDP populations. Male youth from IDP camps felt
that this practice may lead to the spread of HIV/AIDS.

Young men in the camps were also concerned that barbers used the same blade for
shaving on successive clients. IDPs said that it would be too expensive for the barber
to use a new blade on every client. The risk in this circumstance is for young men, who
like to shave their heads very short and in patterns, incurring small cuts leading to
possible infection. Children were also observed to use blades disposed by the barbers
around their kiosks.

Although male youths are aware that multiple use of blades on different people may
transfer HIV from one person to another, they were observed to still tattoos their skin
and the skin of friends using the same blade.


                   LIMITED ACCESS TO HEALTH SERVICES
In general, the population in Eastern DRC is suffering from poor social service delivery
despite the high need and demand for such basic services. The long period of war
coupled with carelessness of the former political regime destroyed the basic structures
in terms of organisation, delivery and the quality of basic services. Now, the Church
and NGOs complement weak government services in general but particularly for the
IDPs in the region. However, this provision of services and goods to the IDPs by the
NGOs has provoked tension in the host community.

NGO-run75 health services are available through the health centre located in Mukulya
Camp, which is open to and utilized by, the host community as well as the IDPs. No
discrimination was seen or reported that the health centre favours either host or IDP
clients. Condoms are distributed freely through the health centre but only male IDP
youth were reported by health staff to access them. Health staff reported that adults,
who were usually married, were too ashamed to ask health staff for condoms. As there
is no blood bank, emergency blood transfusion is done directly without HIV and
hepatitis testing, which is a way of HIV transmission.

In contrast, the situation in Mbimbi Camp is quite different. The prevalence of diseases
is reported to be higher and there is no health centre available to IDPs. IDPs from

75
     MSF-France

                                           53
Social and Gender Assessment


Mbimbi Camp must travel 4-5 km to reach free health care services at Tenamba. The
health centre established by the British NGO, Merlin, for the IDPs in Mbimbi Camp was
forced to close by the neighbouring host population as it was a source of conflict as this
centre only served the IDP. Despite the high opportunity costs of travelling to Tenamba
- the one day required to make the journey to and from the health care centre (time in
which men and women could be finding food for their families) - the IDPs reported that
the host population are given preferential treatment at this health care centre.
Condoms are not distributed in the Tenamba health facility but must be obtained in
shops in Oicha town for 50FrC (USD $0.80) for 3 condoms. A local NGO ABAS SIDA
(Remove AIDS) has distributed condoms sporadically.

IDPs who have attended the Tenamba Health
Centre report that few drugs are ever distributed to               "They do not touch our stools, they
IDPs. They felt that the IDPs were only ever given                 put it away and they write that we
Paracetamol tablets, and the proper drugs were                     are in good health, even if you are
saved for the host population. They also feel that                 about to die." A 42-year old former
blood tests are never actually performed as the                    male nurse from Mbimbi Camp who
results were always negative, prompting the                        was suffering from dysentery
comment in the adjoining textbox.

Sensitisation against HIV is provided by PPSSP and EPVi in both IDP camps assessed
and in surrounding host communities but condoms are not always available due to the
expense and supply. Thus, the researchers assessed that the impact of these
programs in reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS is minimal.

Not only does tension exist between the host communities and IDP over the provision
of services and facilities for IDP use, local government health officials also claimed that
NGOs, particularly MSF-France, had disturbed and paralyzed health activities in the
official health centers ­ See Case Study 6 in Annex 5.

There are no VCT centers available and the host and IDP population did not seem to
be well informed about the benefit of such facilities. The provision of other basic
services offers opportunities for the host community to exert its power over the IDPs.
Such circumstances provide opportunities for sexual exploitation as follows:
 Provision of education: As described in Section 3.1.4.1, schools girls, particularly
    IDPs, provide teachers with sexual favors in return for better marks and as
    punishment for being late to school or their fees being paid late.
 In Mbimbi Camp, the host water management committee accepts sex in place of
    part of the monthly water user fee, and to be placed at the head of the water
    queue76.


                                    GENDER IMBALANCES
From the findings discussed above, many gender issues present that overlay the
traditional roles and responsibilities of men and women in the ethnic groups
represented in the IDP population in Beni region. Some factors increase the
vulnerability of men and male youth to HIV infection, while others increase the
vulnerability of women and female youth to HIV/AIDS. This assessment found several
areas of gender imbalance that make either men or women vulnerable to HIV/AIDS: (i)

76
   Quote by a 24 year old IDP woman regarding sexual corruption in the Water Management Committee
serving Mbimbi IDPs. "If you miss 10-20 FrC you can complete it [the fee] with sex. If a girl or a woman has
a boyfriend in the host water management committee and gives him sex (2-3 times) then she has priority
to get the water quickly." The Water Committees motto is: "water for quick water." One IDP woman
explained that this means: "If you want to be short-listed for water [get into the front of the queue], you
have to accept the water management committee members water [sperm] inside your body or to pay
money for a quick service."

                                                    54
                                                                         DRC Country Report


exploitation of women and girls by the host community men; (ii) dependency and the
erosion of mens self-perceived traditional roles as providers; (iii) increasing
independence of women and adolescent girls in the household; and (iv) rape.

 Exploitation of Women by Host Community Men
All IDPs appear to lack power in relation to the host community as a result of situation
of displacement and consequent lack of assets and livelihood opportunities. As a result
they are exploited by the host community. The host community members make heavy
demands on the IDPs in return for low payments, knowing that the IDPs have no other
options for meeting their needs and must earn something to provide for the household.
Being a woman in a society in which women are subordinated to men, and being an
IDP renders IDP women doubly powerless and heightens their dangers of exploitation.

In addition to the above level of economic exploitation, IDP women and female
adolescents are exploited sexually by the host community, as previously discussed.
Sex is demanded by the host community in return for work, in return for good marks at
school, in order for women to receive their remuneration for work provided, in order to
get water without queuing, as punishment for being late to school, and to obtain
permission to sell goods in the Beni market. Vulnerable IDP women are even exploited
by the IDP Camp Committee members in their own camps­ cases were reported of the
committee members threatening to remove female heads of households from the ration
list if they refuse to provide committee members with sex.

Host men also saw IDP women as cheap wives. Some of these men marry IDP girls as
their second wives in order to secure them as unpaid labourers in their fields. These
women are treated badly by the men, his first wife and his children. These IDP women
are in fact slaves. The host population likes the presence of the IDPs because they are
cheap workers, cheap prostitutes and cheap brides.

 Shifts in Gender Relations in IDP Households
As a basis for this analysis, the normal situation governing household gender roles and
relations must first be mentioned. Men are perceived as the primary providers in the
household - they bring income or goods-in-kind into the household, provide shelter, and
cover expenses for education and health, even where women provide most of the labor
needed to sustain the family. The womens role is to care for the family ­ looking after
children, providing meals, collecting water, tending small animals and growing crops.
Girls assist the mother in her chores.

As a result of displacement, many IDPs are now are fully or partly dependent on others
for food, accommodation, health care, water, and other necessities. In the IDP camps,
the local government provides the land for the camp, while NGOs provide monthly food
rations, basic household items, shelter, access to basic services, and HIV/AIDS
programs. Unfortunately, the food provided is insufficient to meet the average dietary
needs of a family for one month. This
situation, coupled with the lack of fair     "They [husbands] do not have anything to give
access to livelihood opportunities has       us. And all they do is talk." Thirty-three year old
placed families in a precarious position in  female village chief in Mukulya Camp - many
which they must find any means at their      women concurred
disposal to provide for the family. One of   A hymn sung by women went:
the primary ways for providing resources
                                             "The father of my children - you stay in the
to support the family lies in IDP women
and many adolescent girls exchanging         house to take care of the children, while I go
sex, either on a casual ad hoc basis or      out. And when I come back you will eat more
more permanently as prostitutes, in          than you are used to."
return for money or other resources.

                                            55
Social and Gender Assessment



With this situation, the capacity of the husband to play an important provider role has
eroded. Although he may struggle to find work to assist the family, his purported
traditional role as provider has been diminished. His role has been taken over by NGOs
and the woman in the family, especially if they are providing resources for the family.
Some women seem to have lost respect for their husbands under this situation, as
shown in the adjoining textbox. It was reported that the husband and father loses his
traditional authority in the household as he does not support the family - he is not
considered important to the family any longer.

In the case of IDPs, the main responsibility of providing for the family has added to
womens burdens in many households, and has had an impact on gender relations
within the household. With the diminution of mens traditional role, wives said that they
are freer to do as they please - a factor reported to influence open and repetitive
infidelity and transactional sex, which is conducive to HIV infection. IDP men reported
that there wives are more independent than when they were in Ituri, and that they are
no longer involved in household decision-making­ "even in their own households, the
woman and the children are not under their control anymore". This is a different
situation than that in the refugee and IDP camps in Uganda and in Tanzania.

It is difficult to determine in what proportion of households these shifts are occurring.
The researchers estimate that there are more households with these changes in
Mbimbi Camp than in Mukulya Camp, and that at this is the situation in well over 50%
of households in Mbimbi Camp. In focus groups with the host community, it was
reported that few women are unfaithful to their husbands. However, while women knew
that men have affairs outside the marriage, women in the host community said that
these men were usually traders and truck drivers.

Many husbands know the origin of the extra money and household resources that
women bring into the household as they feel that they do not have much choice since
they realise that family survival - food, and for other necessary items - relies on the
"woman's hands and legs". Daughters of IDP families also support the household by
bartering and selling sex. These girls often
contribute more than the father to the            "What should you have become in this house
survival of the family. In this situation, the    without me?" said a 16 year old girl having
parents, but especially the fathers, authority    sex for money to her father?
over the girl, and consequently his other
children, decreases, as indicated in the textbox. Such children tend to "do as they
please".

This diminution of the traditional role of men, and the changes in gender relations in
some households, adds to these mens feelings of powerlessness and frustration,
which may lead to idleness, alcohol consumption and sexual liaisons outside of
marriage to prove his manhood and relieve stress. Opposite to the situation when
women engage in sex outside the household, which brings money and resources into
the household, mens infidelity takes money out of the household. It is generally
understood throughout the camps from teenagers to the elderly that womens infidelity
is not only tolerated, it is necessary for survival of the household. Songs and
expressions, such as: "If the mother has got a boyfriend outside the children become
fat. But if the father gets a girlfriend outside then the children become skinny"- are
common -sung to the researchers by a 13 year old boy in Year 4 at school who said he
knows all his mothers boyfriends.

 Gender Based Violence




                                           56
                                                                       DRC Country Report


IDP women were the victims of violent rape during the ethnic conflicts that lead to their
displacement and during their exodus from the Ituri region to the Beni region. Not only
did these violent incidents leave many women traumatized but they may also be
infected with HIV. These same women may be carriers of the virus, transmitting HIV to
men in the IDP and the host community.

Rapes are fewer now that the IDPs have escaped the ethnic violence but still occur in
circumstances where IDP women have to travel long distances to find work in the host
community. Military man and young host males were reported to be the perpetrators.
Schoolgirls have also been raped on their way to school from Mukulya Camp.

No condoms are used in rape. And those women who are raped may then engage in
transactional sex in the camp and in the host community, usually without using
condoms. There are many other adverse consequences for the victim by the
community.

          INTERACTIONS BETWEEN IDPS AND HOST COMMUNITY
The factors influencing the spread of HIV/AIDS are maintained by situations of social
and economic interaction between the IDPs and host Congolese communities living
near the camps or other Congolese interacting with the IDPs. These interactions
present opportunities sexual contact. As discussed above, IDPs come into contact with
the host population during economic activity ­ IDPs buy or exchange food and other
goods from the host community at markets, particularly in Oicha; the host community
buys maize flour and plastic sheeting from the IDPs; IDPs work cheaply for host
community; IDP women working as prostitutes, and sex-bartering for food, personal
and household needs, water access, marks in school, jobs, and favours from NGO
workers. The host population and IDPs, especially in and around Mukulya Camp, also
interact at social events, such as funerals, weddings and baptisms, and sporting
competitions. In and around both camps, IDPs and host people also interact at social
venues, such youth meeting in the bars in the camps and in town and villages, and
dances. All of these events present the opportunities for sexual interaction, which is
reported to be common at such events. In addition, more permanent liaisons were
reported - host men taking IDP women as second wives, and IDP men with girlfriends
in the host community.

Tensions between the IDPs and the host communities, particularly in and around
Mbimbi Camp in Oicha urban area, have exacerbated factors that influence HIV
transmission in the IDP population. The host community resents the provision of land,
and basic goods and services to IDPs, particularly by the international NGO community
when the local population themselves are poor and under-served. This resentment has
resulted in the host communities (i) taking over facilities provided for the IDPs­ for
example, the well and health centre just outside Mbimbi Camp; (ii) placing restrictions
on economic activities attempted by the IDPs ­ for example, not allowing the IDPs to
sell goods in the town markets; and (iii) exploiting IDPs sexually in the case of women,
and economically by paying a small daily wage.

This tension has occurred despite the declared benefits that the presence of IDPs has
had on the host community in terms of the rehabilitation of schools and health centres,
the provision of wells for water, and the availability of cheap labour and cheap sex.




                                           57
Social and Gender Assessment



                               CHAPTER 5: CONCLUSIONS

This study revealed that in the studied areas of the DRC the factors influencing
HIV/AIDS transmission among the refugees and IDPs are inter-related and complex.
Insecurity, the horrors of war, family separation, displacement and consequent loss of
all productive and domestic assets, and encampment have caused an overarching
situation of poverty for IDPs in Eastern DRC. And although humanitarian NGOs provide
food and services to the best of their ability, IDPs are pushed to meet the remainder of
their basic needs by all means possible. Powerlessness and uncertainty, combined
with limited access to livelihood opportunities, idleness, shifting gender roles and
weakened societal norms characterizes the lives of IDPs. This struggle for survival
brings opportunities for high risk sexual behavior largely in the form of prostitution and
women engaging in sexual intercourse in order to gain basic resources for their
families, and men and women having sex amongst themselves in order to relieve the
stress and boredom of their lives.

Unprotected sexual intercourse between men and women outside permanent unions
occurs within the IDP population, but to the largest extent between IDP women and
host community men. This behavior continues despite the relatively high knowledge in
both populations about the modes of transmission of the virus, the incurability of AIDS,
and methods of preventing HIV transmission.

The key factors driving high risk sexual behavior, and hence the spread of HIV/AIDS
amongst IDPs in the Beni region were:
   i) Negative attitudes to using condoms and the taboos associated with discussing
      sex;
  ii) Displacement and uncertainty about returning home, leading to encampment
      and congestion, feelings of powerlessness, exploitation by the host
      communities, and shifts in household gender relations; and
 iii) Traditional habits and customs, such as social gatherings, and the use of
      unsterile blades by traditional healers.

Overlying these factors is the isolation of Eastern DRC, and the general inadequacy of
countrys health service delivery mechanism, and its not yet operational nascent
HIV/AIDS program. Each of these factors in turn, leads to another set of factors, which
maintains the vulnerability of IDPs to the spread of HIV/AIDS.

In order to meet the survival needs of the family, IDP women and adolescent girls have
taken on the traditionally male role of providing for the household, leading to women
becoming more independent and "disobedient" and men disempowered. The
consequences are increasing the widespread use of sex by IDP women to gain food
and money largely from host men, either on an as needed basis or through prostitution
in the cities of Oicha and Beni. In addition, IDP women are exploited sexually by the
host community men, with sex being directly or implicitly demanded for obtaining jobs,
marks in school, a place in the market, gathering firewood as examples.

The situation of vulnerability appeared greater in Mbimbi Camp than in Mukulya Camp,
pointing to the congestion and poor camp conditions, tensions with the host community
surrounding the camp, and the heightened opportunities for sex for gain in the urban
location of the camp as factors influencing HIV/AIDS transmission.

Many of the local population of the Beni region are also poor. However, their situations
are not as desperate as those of the IDP population. These poor people have a
community that supports each other, they have permanent houses and assets, land for
cultivation, and are not restricted in their earning capacity by exploitation and
regulations restricting them.
                                           58
                                                                       DRC Country Report



                         CHAPTER 6: RECOMMENDATIONS

Our recommendations are related to the factors influencing HIV/AIDS and represent
the views of the researchers, local and national agencies of the Government of the
DRC, and the IDPs themselves, representatives of the host community, and NGOs
working with IDPs or in the area of HIV/AIDS prevention. These recommendations are
indicative and not exhaustive.

The feasibility of the recommendations provided must be considered within the overall
complexity of factors influencing the spread of HIV/AIDS in Eastern DRC, in the
changing context of displacement and ethnic conflict in north-east DRC, and against
the expanding HIV/AIDS program in the country. In addition, the strengths and
weaknesses of individual national and local level implementers, as well as the different
circumstances surrounding each location, IDP camp, and group of vulnerable persons
must also be considered.

In making the recommendations below, it is important to remember that (i) the health
care system is weak throughout the country; and (ii) the national HIV/AIDS program is
still in its infancy, as is the World Bank-funded Multi-Sectoral AIDS Program.
Operationalization of these programs, especially to remote locations such as North
Kivu Province, is minimal. Much has yet to be done in terms of training health and
education staff, introduction of VCT and PMTCT programs, and the coordination of
services. With regard to the health care system, the MoH face both human and
financial resource constraints that will require many years to rebuild the system, which
has collapsed as a result of political mismanagement and civil war over the past four
decades.

Overlaying these recommendations is the fact that insecurity in the Ituri region was the
cause of displacement and many of the structural factors leading to high risk sexual
behavior have been caused by displacement. Security in Ituri region with an end to
inter-ethnic violence would therefore alleviate many factors driving and maintaining IDP
vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. At present, a return to their homelands for IDPs remains
theoretical.

Upon analysis, the research team determined that recommendations for preventing
and controlling HIV transmission fall into three categories:
1. Revitalising standard approaches to prevention programs / approaches ­ whats in
    the box
2. Revisiting the current approaches to programming ­ thinking outside the box
3. Harmonization.


  REVITALISING STANDARD APPROACHES TO HIV/AIDS PREVENTION
                         PROGRAMS
Several aspects of standard HIV/AIDS prevention programs require strengthening in
general and specifically for IDPs and host populations in the Beni region.

Firstly, general recommendations are made to the MoH to increase the capacity of
health facilities to increase the diagnosis of HIV and STD infection and treatment. It is
recommended that the capacity of health facilities, particularly at provincial, zonal and
sub-zonal levels, is augmented to effectively implement STI management programs
according to national guidelines, which would include diagnosis and management of
symptomatic STI cases and contact tracing. Lower level facility staff should be trained
in STI case detection and referral. It is also recommended that the number of antenatal
care sites offering minimum package of prevention of HIV/AIDS mother-to-child

                                           59
Social and Gender Assessment


transmission is increased. With specific reference to HIV/AIDS, VCT centres should be
provided in reach of the population, and which are equipped and staffed according to
national guidelines. Such services are recommended to be free of charge to all
Congolese citizens. A program of community sensitization should be included. Health
services may draw on the existing networks of NGOs operating in raising awareness
about HIV and AIDS to provide education to both the IDP and host communities
regarding STI, ANC and VCT services. Promotion of STI treatment and management
and VCT centres must occur in an appropriate manner that gives people hope for the
future- educating people on treatment of STIs and treatment and care of people with
AIDS77. Quality blood transfusion services must be extended to zonal levels, according
to the national MOH guidelines.

The researchers suggest that the program of the national HIV/AIDS control program of
PNLS is founded on the actual situation in the field. Therefore, it is suggested that a
regular system of sentinel surveillance system to monitor not only the prevalence of
STIs, HIV and AIDS, but also knowledge, attitude and behavior and the factors driving
high risk behavior is established as soon as possible. It is further recommended that
Health Zones develop the capacity to effectively monitor the situation in their own
zones, such that interventions can be designed and planned to react to the prevailing
situation. Further, it is recommended that the capacities of NGOs and other actors are
reinforced to collect information that will ongoingly inform HIV behavior change
interventions, and feed into local and national government monitoring and evaluation
systems.

In general, HIV/AIDS prevention programs in the DRC of the MOH, Health Zones and
NGOs must shift their operational focus from awareness-raising to behavior change. In
this assessment, knowledge of HIV, AIDS and prevention was adequate but high risk
sexual behavior was still prevalent. Therefore, efforts to change behavior must be
intensified. Such behavior change interventions must be based on a thorough
knowledge of the situation of the population targeted, and must focus on the provision
of an enabling environment that will support behavior change, and must address
barriers for the entire population and particularly at-risk sub-groups to adopting the
promoted behavior ­ safer sexual practices. In the case of the IDPs, such an approach
would need to address some of the factors driving and maintaining high risk sexual
practices, such as inadequate access to food and basic goods and services, weakened
societal and family structures, and idleness- as discussed in Section 5.2 below. It is
recommended that behavior change approaches are promoted by the national
government to be implemented by Health Zones and NGOs at the local levels. It is also
recommended that these initiatives involve local government, civil society organisations
and local people for tailoring the interventions to local circumstances, implementation
and monitoring.

In the case of the IDP camps, it is recommended that a locally owned behavior change
program adopt the following features:
 Involvement of key stakeholders, including IDP male and female leaders, host
     population leaders, implementing NGOs, Church leaders and local government -
     Health Zone, Education Department, and others
 Formulate a HIV/AIDS committee in each camp
 Promote the reformulation of the traditional system of respect and authority
     through elders and leaders
 Wide condom distribution
 Introduction of peer education and support programs
 Utilization of PLWHA from within the IDP camp and local host communities to
     reduce the stigma and make the threat of HIV a reality


77
     UNAIDS, Barcelona, 2002

                                          60
                                                                       DRC Country Report


    Develop and use IEC material, especially posters in the language of the IDPs, in
    the camps, and in Ndande in the host communities.

In Beni region, religious leaders are against the use of condoms and actively preach
against their use, threatening that people who use condoms are sinning against God.
As the majority of the IDPs and the host population are Christians, such Church
pressure is a factor contributing to the limited availability of condoms in some places
and the limited use of condoms. As behavior change cannot occur in an environment
that is not supportive, it is strongly recommended that the Church meet with
government and NGOs and adopt a common position on preaching about condoms. It
is further recommended that this harmonisation occurs at the highest levels in the
DRC. Examples can be taken from Kenya and Uganda regarding harmonisation with
the Church. This does not mean to say that the Church must accept condom use but
that the all means of preserving life by limiting the spread of HIV/AIDS is investigated.

It is recommended that NGOs facilitate IDPs in each camp to formulate a HIV/AIDS
Committee, which would have a mandate of decreasing the spread of HIV/AIDS in the
camp and with the surrounding host population. The mandate of the committee would
be to ensure the spread of HIV/AIDS is minimized. The committee could oversee
behavior change interventions, condom distribution and simple interventions to reduce
idleness. Committee members would be trained to undertake their roles, which would
be decided by the camp. A similar system may be applicable to host communities.

IDPs recommended the distribution of free condoms, which that were easily and
discretely accessible to all those who required them. It is recommended that NGOs
facilitate Camp HIV/AIDS Committee or existing Camp Committees (of leaders) to
place condoms in boxes throughout the camp in places suggested by sub-groups of
the IDP population to ensure all groups have access. Such a distribution program
should be accompanied by a program that educates IDPs in separate age and sex
groups on how to use a condom properly. It is recommended that NGOs currently
operating HIV/AIDS prevention programs in the IDP camps and host community
facilitate these condom interventions. Training will be required for committee members
or educators, as well as demonstration models and materials, and an adequate supply
of condoms.

In the camp, it is recommended that NGOs work with the Camp Committees and local
government HIV/AIDS programs to establish a system of peer educators to provide
appropriate behavior change education and support to peers. It is important that peers
educate peers of the same cultural, age and authority range as themselves. Sub-
groups of the population, such as teenage girls acting as prostitutes in Oicha market
should have a peer system of education and support. In the case of this sub-group of
the population/

It is also strongly recommended that international NGOs and the MOH facilitate the
Health Zone to adopt a similar program of condom distribution in venues at which much
high risk sexual behavior occurs - bars, brothels and central markets in Oicha and Beni
cities. Concomitantly, a program of peer education and support for host community
men, particularly traders in the Beni and Oicha market and other clients of prostitutes,
male youth in general, and the farmers who employ female IDP labour, is
recommended. It is recommended that the behavior change sought in this group is the
use of condoms. Therefore, it is recommended that social marketing campaigns are
undertaken in which condoms that minimize penile sensation and discomfort are trailed
with these high risk men and promoted. NGOs and the MHO supply free condoms in
discrete and handy locations for ease of collection, as well as use the appropriate peer
education and support. Such a program must go hand in hand with a similar program
for prostitutes, particularly IDP girls who frequent the Oicha market, to not only supply
them with condoms and instruct them in condom application, but to provide them with

                                           61
Social and Gender Assessment


negotiating skills. Despite, these recommendations, the researchers realise that the
most effective means of reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS between these IDP girls and
host community men is to remove the factors driving transactional sex ­ provision of
adequate means for families to meet their basic food, non-feed and service needs.

Behavior change messages must be contextual and work around barriers such as sex
as a taboo subject, traditional barriers leading to HIV/AIDS, religious barriers against
condoms, negative behavior to PLWHA and discrimination. For children and youth, it is
recommended to the Ministry of Education, as well as NGOs and coil society
organisations, that HIV/AIDS/STI education is embedded into the broader sexual and
reproductive health education received in schools and at youth centres.

It is recommended that the Ministry of Education, the Police and the judicial system
cooperate together to stop the sexual exploitation of IDP and host community girls by
teachers in schools. A system of education of teachers must go hand in hand with a
Ministry of Education monitoring and supervisory system, in which teachers will be
dismissed if they have sexual liaisons with pupils, and with a judicial mechanism for
civil punishment of the perpetrators. At the same time, girls must be educated and
empowered to report sexual harassment and abuse. It is recommended that this
instruction is given to schools girls by trusted community members, such as mothers,
Police women, older girls, and others who the girls report that they trust.

Lastly, it is recommended that the MOH and NGOs operating in the Beni region
educate traditional healers about the dangers of spreading infectious diseases such as
hepatitis, tenus and HIV by using non-sterile blades on more than one patient.
Alternatives must be provided - such as sterilizing techniques that kill the virus, cheap
disposable blades. They should also be taught universal precaution techniques. A
program to educate the general public about the dangers of multiple use of blades is
also recommended. The MoH could undertake an awareness campaign through radio,
schools, health centres, local government and well-displayed IEC material. The
community should be encouraged to supply their own blades.


     REVISITING CURRENT APPROACHES TO PROGRAMMING ­ THINKING
                          OUTSIDE THE BOX
For both IDP and host populations, the current approaches to HIV/AIDS prevention and
control must be broadened to include those aspects of peoples lives that drive and
maintain high risk practices, despite knowledge of the consequences. Therefore, in the
case of the IDPS in north eastern DRC, this will involve addressing factors such as
inadequate food and basic household requirements; host community imposed
restrictions on accessing livelihood opportunities, including exploitation; idleness;
improving the living conditions in the camps; strengthening societal and familiar
structures; and gender imbalances; as well as removing barriers to adopting safer
behaviors.

Of primary importance is the return home of the IDPs or the full integration of these
people into the Beni region. It is recommended that the GoDRC and the UN does all in
their powers to improve security78 in the Eastern part of the DRC so that displacement
and IDP situations do not arise in the future, and the current IDPs can return to their
homes. Peace and security would remove one of the major factors driving IDP women
and adolescent girls to transact sex for household goods or the money with which to
purchase such goods. Provision of this security is up to the GoDRC. Linked to this in
the medium-term, is the strong recommendation that national and local governments
(in Ituri region) establish a framework and plan for the return of the IDPs to their
78
   Currently (2005), United Nations Peace keepers (MONUC) patrol areas of Ituri region to reduce the
incidence of ethnic violence and to protect IDPs in camps in the region

                                                62
                                                                                      DRC Country Report


homes. Such a plan needs to address the preparation of the places of IDP origin for
their return, such as rehabilitation of roads, health centres and schools; distribution of
seeds, farm animals for breeding and tools to IDPs when they return; train IDPs in
agricultural methods and in self-reliance, including the preparation of demonstration
fields and farms. Currently, the NGO, Solidarité, is undertaking some preparation in
Ituri region. It is recommended that Solidarité facilitates the government to develop a
plan, and that Solidarité assists the government in implementing this plan.

Another area of security is to protect IDPs and others from rape and minimize the
stress associated with rape by adopting the following recommendations:
 Improved policing
 Rehabilitation and control of the Armed Forces so that there are not multiple
     lawless, armed gangs roaming the country-side
 Institutionalizing mechanisms to catch and punish rapists that do not provide extra
     stress to the victim
 Establish post-prophylaxis programs, including HIV and STI testing if requested by
     the victim
 Support groups and trauma counselling for rape victim.

It is recommended that the national government of DRC, work through NGOs and UN
agencies (OCHA and WFP) currently operating to provide goods and services to IDPs,
work with IDPs, through their committee to improve the living conditions of encamped
IDPs, particularly in Mbimbi Camp. The following short-term recommendations are
made:
 Provision of sanitation in Mbimbi Camp79.
 Improvement of housing in Mbimbi Camp, for example by providing roofing
      materials other than the existing reflective and leaky blue plastic.
 Regulating water provision near Mbimbi Camp so that the IDPs can access the
      well, which was built for IDP and host community usage by international NGOs,
      without charge and sex bribes. This should be monitored by the Police, OCHA and
      NGOs.
 Improvement in the food distributed to IDPs in terms of quantity, quality and
      variety). Specific interventions include developing plantations of bananas or other
      fruit and vegetables with the IDPs for their own use. Local government extension
      systems could be revamped and utilized for this purpose.
 Improvement in food and non-food distribution mechanisms so that female heads of
      households are not threatened in return for sex with the camp committee.
 In the medium, term local governments could investigate a schemes for hiring or
      borrowing land on which IDPs can cultivate crops for improving the households
      immediate food security. Such an activity would also reduce the idleness problem,
      particularly noticeable in Mbimbi Camp. Or alternatively, providing land for
      cultivation (food security, reduction in idleness) for IDPs.
 Access to health centers and schools should be assured by local government for
      the IDPs to attend. Measures must be put in place to stop host communities from
      restricting IDP access from health care facilities, school education, and water. It is
      suggested that the Police and local government enforce such access.
 Local government should increase the quote of IDP children who can attend local
      schools free of charge to reduce idleness and increase chances of HIV education.
      The international NGOs operating in the Beni region may need to assist in
      providing supplies and infrastructure to schools to cover the increases in the
      number of pupils.
 Provide clothes to IDPs, which would help to normalise the camp society, and limit
      women wearing transparent gowns and men wearing womens clothing. This
      would bring respect to the camp and to the IDPs.

79
     Provision of sanitation was planned for Mbimbi Camp at the time of this assessment

                                                     63
Social and Gender Assessment


   Provide simple household equipment to IDP families, such as mattresses, sufficient
   blankets for the family members, cooking and eating utensils, privacy screens (to
   divide houses) stools and sanitary pads for women.

In the medium term, it is recommended that more land is provided to relieve the
congestion of large camps, by expanding the boundaries of existing camps or creating
smaller manageable camps, like Mukulya Camp, and resettling IDPs from other camps
to these new sites. The MSF model could be used to build new camps.

A very important but potentially difficult issue to address is the access of women to
livelihood activities as alternatives to sex work and sex bartering; and to men such that
they are able to bring home a fair payment, in line with payments to host community
laborers, for the hard work performed. In the short term, it is recommended that NGOs
facilitate income generation opportunities, particularly to vulnerable women and girls
(those working as prostitutes, or female heads of household [widows, single mothers,
divorcees]). Training and support should be provided to IDP and women from the host
community neighboring the camps. Agriculture seems to be a promising income
generating activity, since people will secure food, eating what they grow and selling a
certain amount in the large local trading markets to defray other costs of living. Any
interventions that assist IDPs to income generating activities must be cost-effective,
and aimed at self-reliance of IDPs (reducing their dependence on aid). This would also
reduce idleness in the camps. However, for such interventions to offer economically
viable alternatives for female IDPs, the removal of the current host restrictions placed
on IDPs selling goods in local markets must be negotiated by local government.
However, having made the above recommendations, the researchers realize that a fine
balance must be maintained between increasing the economic self-reliance of IDPs
without overly disturbing the economic and social balance of the host population in the
region.

Although difficult to address, it will be important to find ways of reducing the
discrimination and exploitation of the IDPs by the host populations in Eastern DRC.
Possibly radio and television slots could be used to promote national unity and the fact
that IDPs and host people are all Congolese.

It is also recommended that a durable solution regarding cooking fuel is investigated
and adopted so that IDP women and girls do not have to trek long distances for
firewood and expose themselves to the dangers of rape and sexual harassment. It is
recommended that NGOs investigate alternative stoves. Appropriate stoves could be
provided in communal cooking facilities, such as the kitchens of "villages" in Mukulya
Camp.

The idleness of youth in the IDP camps is also a factor leading to the spread of
HIV/AIDS. It is recommended that NGOs consider facilitating local host communities to
work with IDPs (through local government, civil society organizations, the Church and
IDP committees) to provide simple youth clubs or centers that are based on the needs
and suggestions of local youth. The UNHCR model in Mtendeli refugee camp in
Tanzania could serve as a model. Such centers would serve the IDP and host
community youth, providing reproductive health education, STI/HIV/AIDS behavior
change programs, life skills programs, entertainment such as videos, sport, board
games, traditional handicraft skills, and supervised dances. Such centers would
hopefully help to diffuse tensions between the host and IDP populations in the Beni
region, especially near Mbimbi Camp. They would also be safe places where youth can
socialize and where their confidence and self-esteem are built.

Local government are invited to regulate local drinking places in host communities to
prevent minors, particularly IDP girls, from soliciting for sex at these establishments. A
similar regulation could be put in place around markets, and by the IDP Camp

                                           64
                                                                                     DRC Country Report


Committees in drinking places around the camps. In addition, regulation of alcohol
manufacture and sale in and around the camps might be considered by the Camp
Committees. However, caution should be applied in that such interventions are
adopted inside of a comprehensive program that includes alternatives for IDP families
to meet their basic needs, as discussed above.

In the medium-term, it is recommended in both the host and IDP populations that the
capacity of communities and families to protect orphans and other vulnerable children
and youth from HIV/AIDS is developed. International NGOs could draw on international
best practice models of community support. Suggestions are linked to many of the
recommendations above and in the previous section, and include improving families
overall health [distribute mosquito net to prevent malaria, install nutritional centres],
providing psychological support to families, improving economic capacities, reinforcing
youth skills to take better care of themselves and protect themselves against HIV/AIDS.


                                         HARMONIZATION
From the social and gender assessment of HIV/AIDS in IDPs in the DRC, several
situations of disharmony were noted. These situations either act to increase the
vulnerability of IDPs to HIV/AIDS or act as barriers to behavior change or the
implementation of effective HIV/AIDS programs. Such situations of disharmony must
be addressed and include:
 Insecurity in the east of the country between the government and rebel forces
 Tensions between the host communities and IDPs over the services
 Sexual and economic exploitation of IDPs by host populations
 Messages regarding HIV/AIDS prevention are discordant between different
     stakeholders
 Disharmony in the household as women take on providing for the family and assert
     their freedom.

As discussed above, the insecurity in Eastern DRC between the government and rebel
forces and between rival ethnic militia seriously undermine efforts to reduce the spread
of HIV/AIDS in this area of the DRC. The researchers make the following
recommendations to the Government of the DRC:
     Search for durable peace solutions between the opponent ethnicities in Ituri,
       and in general in the East of the country. This may involve international
       peacekeeping or other assistance.
     Ensure a permanent follow-up of the international commitments subscribed to
       by DRC in charters for the protection of human rights, womens rights and
       childrens rights, and ensure that perpetrators of these rights are brought to
       justice. This may mean involving regional actors in the advocacy efforts for the
       respect of human rights (through the Special Envoy for the GLR and regional
       peace-building initiatives).
     Encourage all high level missions to the DRC to emphasise to local political and
       military authorities the urgent need to end the impunity that has characterised
       the war in DRC80.
     Promote commonly-based integrated strategies that can respond to continuing
       humanitarian needs but simultaneously increased recovery and development
       efforts.

Tensions exist between host communities on one hand and IDP populations and NGO
implementing agencies on the other hand over the provision of free goods and services
to IDPs. The host community feels that they are deserving of such favours as they too
are impoverished. The following recommendations are made to alleviate these

80
     Inter ­Agency Mission on Internally Displaced populations in the DRC, 26 January ­ 8 February 2003

                                                     65
Social and Gender Assessment


tensions, which would allow IDPs to access schools, health centres and water close to
their camps without being exploited financially and sexually:
     Reports of discrimination in the delivery of basic social services should be
        investigated by local government and reported to a committee set up to resolve
        such practices.
     NGOs and senior local government functionaries are recommended to hold a
        summit between the IDP and host community leaders to discuss and resolve
        disputes over services access and utilisation. In such dialogues attempts should
        be made to encourage acceptance of peaceful cohabitation.
     The government of the DRC should work with local media and the Police to
        censor discriminatory messages being disseminated against IDPs in the Beni
        region81
     Basic service providers and local leaders should be supported and supervised
        by higher levels of the government to remove discrimination in service access.
        Measures to undertake this would ideally fall out of the above summit, and
        should include redefining the parameters of operation of these services, and
        committees to manage them. NGOs conduct spot checks and monitor
        implementation of new operations rules that are set by local government in
        collaboration with IDP and host community leaders.

The degree of sexual and economic exploitation of IDPs by the some members of
the host population around Beni is extreme. Such exploitation is one of the
factors maintaining high risk sexual activity between IDP women and adolescent girls
and host community men. Comprehensive measures, combining many of the
recommendations made earlier in this chapter must be implemented without delay. Key
interventions include but are not limited to the following:
        Access to fair livelihood opportunities for IDPs so that they have a means of
            supporting their families
        Regulation of young female prostitutes in markets and bars in Oicha and
            Beni.

Discordant messages about HIV/AIDS prevention, in particular about condoms,
were being provided by different stakeholders in the Beni region. It is therefore
recommended that all players in HIV/AIDS education follow the government
policy or desist from delivering any messages about HIV and AIDS. In addition,
HIV/AIDS prevention programs must be local initiatives, which would involve all
stakeholders participating in the design of HIV/AIDS messages and the delivery of
awareness campaigns and behavior change interventions - especially the local
government, NGOs and the church. In such a process stakeholders are recommended
to clearly define the best way that they can contribute to the reduction in the spread of
HIV/AIDS in the region. Clear roles and common responsibilities, such as to preserve
life, should be agreed and adopted, all inside the central PNLS HIV/AIDS policy. In
such cases it will be equally important to mobilise and reinforce community initiatives
through the participation of local IDP and host community leaders, traditional and
religious authorities, political and administrative authorities, teachers, journalists, and
the IDPs and host populations so that they all are equally aware of HIV/AIDS, its
impact on everyday life, and simple prevention, care and support options at the
community level. It is strongly recommended that all prevention messages focus on
hope and positive living, rather than on death and guilt.

During the assessment, disharmony was noted at the household level as IDP
women become increasingly independent and take on the role of provider and
decision-maker in the family. In addition to the facilitation of livelihood opportunities
and adequate supplies of food and basic household items and services, it is
recommended that initiatives that foster mens self-esteem are included- such as
81
     An example is COAD, a national NGO in Beni

                                                  66
                                                                     DRC Country Report


livelihood opportunities with fair remuneration, and camp work for food programs.
Counselling support might also be considered.

As far as HIV/AIDS program are concerned, the PNLS must ensure that a strong
coordinating, programming, implementing and monitoring mechanism is adopted and
operationalized as soon as is possible. Such a mechanism must operate from the local
level to the central to coordinate HIV/AIDS programs and interventions delivered by
separate stakeholders.

Institutions dealing with and caring for IDPs, and with HIV/AIDS in the communities of
the Eastern DRC and in IDP populations, including national and local governments,
must operate effectively to meet the needs and demands of the people they serve.
Therefore, effective coordination is essential. Recommendations for such coordination
include establishing and ensuring the functioning at the national, regional and local
levels, of consultation forums between political authorities, UN agencies, and
international and national NGOs involved in humanitarian and development activities,
including HIV/AIDS programs, for IDPs.

In addition, the Church is a much respected institution and must be utilised to
disseminate messages of peace and harmony and cohabitation at IDP sites, and in the
East of DRC in general.




                                          67
Social and Gender Assessment



                                   REFERENCES

1.    Coordination Of National Responses To HIV/AIDS, Guiding Principles For
      National Authorities And Their Partners, UNAIDS
2.    Amnesty International 2004. Democratic Republic Of The Congo - The Continued
      Catastrophe
3.    Beni Health Zone 2003. Annual Report, Beni, 2003
4.    Bollinger L and Stover J 1999. The Economic Impact of AIDS In The Congo
      (DRC). The Policy Project ­ The Futures Group
5.    CDC 2004. National HIV Sero-Prevalence Survey Of DRC ­ Preliminary Findings
      According To The Studies Undertaken By The CDC/Atlanta And Published In 2004
6.    GLIA 2003. GLIA: Operations Manual Component 1 : Refugees And Surrounding
      Populations
7.    Inter ­Agency Mission 2003a. Report On Internally Displaced Populations In The
      DRC, Kinshasa, February 2003
8.    Inter-Agency Mission 2003b. Rapport Inter Agences Sur Les Violences Sexuelles
      Faites À La Femme Et Aux Enfants, Rapport (Inter-agency Report on Sexual
      Violence against Women and Children), Aout 2003: Rapport De Mission Effectuée
      Dans Les Villes De Kalemie, Bukavu Et Goma (mission Report from Kalemie,
      Bukavu and Goma)
9.    Kayembe Patrick 2003. , Evaluation Of IRC's Program For Assistance To IDPs In
      Kinshasa., DRC, In Collaboration With IRC Kinshasa, August 2003
10.   Kayembe Patrick, 2002. Sexual Practices, And Population Attitude Regarding STI,
      HIV/AIDS and Condoms. , Kinshasa, April 2002
11.   Lapika Bruno, 2004. La Dimension Sociale Du SIDA En RDC, Rapport Final,
      Kinshasa, February 2004
12.   MoH 2004. Report Of The National Blood Transfusion Commission, Health
      Ministry Policy For Blood Transfusion Security, 2004
13.   MSF 2004: Quarterly Report, Beni, March 2004
14.   OCHA 2003. Newsews EN RDC, No.0 4, October 2003
15.   PNLS 1999. Politique Nationale De Lutte Contre Le SIDA Et Les MST., PNLS,
      Juillet 1999
16.   PNLS 2003. Plan Stratégique National De Lutte Contre Le VIH/SIDA/MST 1999-
      2008., PNLS, Septembre 2003
17.   PPSSP 2003. Programme De Protection Des Soins De Santé Primaires - PPSSP
      Survey, Beni, 2002-2003
18.   Première Urgence 2004. Situation Report, Beni, 2003-2004
19.   Rapport De La Mission d'Audit Institutionnel De La Lutte Contre Le VIH/SIDA En
      RDC, Ministère De La Santé, By Prof Kashala, Simon Dinkala And Mamoudou
      Diallo, Funded By UNAIDS, UNDP And WFP, Kinshasa, Avril 2004,
20.   SOFEPADI 2003. Report On Sexual Violence Against Women In The Beni Region
21.   SOLIDARITE 2004. Quarterly Report, 2004
22.   UNAIDS 2004. Report On The Global AIDS Epidemic
23.   UNAIDS, UNDP And WFP 2004. Rapport De l'Atelier De Mise À Niveau Des
      Connaissances Des Membres Du Cabinet Du Chef De l'Etat Sur Le VIH/SIDA Et
      Le PNMLS, Kinshasa, Cabinet Du Chef De L'Etat Et UNAIDS, 27 Avril 2004
24.   UNDP/UNOPS 2003. Enquête Sur Les Connaissances, Les Attitudes Et Les
      Pratiques (CAP) De La Population De Goma Et De Ses Environs Par Rapport Au
      VIH/SIDA, UNDP/UNOPS, Goma, 2003
25.   UNHCR 2004. UNHCR Global Report 2003.



                                          68
                                                                 DRC Country Report


26. UNICEF, USAID and Ministry of Planning 2002. MICS2: ICS 2: National Survey
    On The Situation Of Children And Women, MICS2/2001, Ministry Of Plan,
    UNICEF, USAID, 200.1
27. USAID, UNAIDS, WHO, UNICEF and the Policy Project 2004. Coverage of
    Selected Services for HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Support in Low and Middle
    Income Countries in 2003.
28. WHO-DRC 2004. Report On The Overall Situation Of HIV/AIDS 2001 ­ 2003
29. World Bank. Draft Guidelines For Social Assessment Of HIV/AIDS Projects
    (undated)




                                       69
Social and Gender Assessment



                         PART II. UGANDA COUNTRY REPORT


                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS among Refugees and Internally
Displaced People (IDPs)­ in Uganda was undertaken to identify the factors influencing
the transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) within such populations and
between such populations and neighboring Ugandan host communities.

In Uganda, three categories of the population were studied as listed below. In addition,
representative of host communities living at Kajaho village, near the refugee and
asylum seeker camps, was also included in this assessment for comparison with the
three study populations of:

   1. Mainly Rwandan Refugees in Nakivale and Oruchinga Camps in Mbarara
      District in south-western Uganda ­ a camp under the auspices of United
      Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and run by the Ugandan
      Red Cross Society;
   2. Rwandan Asylum Seekers in Kibaati Camp in south-western Uganda ­people
      without support due to their lack of recognition in Uganda; and
   3. Ugandan IDPs in Awer Camp in Gulu District in northern Uganda.

Vulnerability to HIV/AIDS among these studied populations , occurs through high risk
sexual practices, that involve multiple partners, sexual relations outside of marriage (or
a stable union), and failure to use condoms at all or properly if abstinence and fidelity
are not possible. These practices occur despite existing HIV/AIDS programs, relative
condom availability and health services. Neither services nor adequate knowledge of
HIV/AIDS was noted in the asylum seekers in Kibaati Camp, and elsewhere.

The most important factors driving the vulnerability to HIV transmission among these
populations in Uganda include: (i) physical insecurity and subsequent displacement
and encampment; (ii) existing gender disparities between men and women; and (iii)
inadequacies in HIV/AIDS programs and health services.

Insecurity (indicate what type of insecurity) has lead to displacement of all three study
populations from their homelands. Displacement leads to separation of, and from,
families, communities and social networks, and a subsequent breakdown of family and
societal structures and institutions. HIV transmission thrives in which societal checks
and balances around sexual behavior and alcohol consumption have been lost.

Loss of property and assets of the studied populations also associated with
displacement resulted in (i) significant restriction of peoples mobility are, (ii) loss of
livelihood opportunities, (iii) domination of feelings of hopelessness and powerlessness
dominates, (iv) increase of dependency on aid in the cases of IDPs and primarily,
refugees, and (v) loss of the traditional role of a provider for men

Subsequently, despondency, cramped living conditions, idleness and drunkenness
were all reported to lead to the risky sexual behavior that characterizes these mobile
populations. In these circumstances, women in households with insufficient resources
to feed, clothe and shelter the family may engage in transactional sex with men - from
the host community, better-off refugees or IDPs, or soldiers, traders or camp workers -
who can provide them with food, money, or meet their other basic needs. Many women
in the IDP and refugee situations resort to commercial sex or bartering sex to meet
their needs for food, money or other needs. Asylum seeking women are often required

                                           70
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report


to perform sexual favors for host farmers in return for work and food, and may take
semi-permanent partners in the host community who will provide them with food.

Most IDP, refugees and asylum seekers, especially women, are preoccupied with the
most immediate and pressing challenges of physical survival and security and regard
HIV as a distant matter. In some locations, people are less worried about dying from
AIDS because they had seen many years of violence and death as a result of the
insurgency. They also felt that almost the entire adult population in the camp was HIV
positive, hence negating the need to worry about HIV infection.

Gender disparities also influence HIV transmission. In Uganda, four main factors seem
to influence the gender dynamic, namely: (i) changes in gender roles without changes
in power relations; (ii) sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV); (iii) early marriage
and sex; and (iv) sexual exploitation related to poverty of women and womens
powerlessness in the household, the camp administration and the "un-familiar"
environment of the camps.

In the refugee and IDP camps, food and non-food aid is provided, although not in
sufficient quality or quantity to sustain a household. This has removed the traditional
role of men as the providers in the household, and placed additional burden on the
women to ensure that sufficient food and basic household amenities are provided to
the family, Thus women are in search to provide these resources in an environment
with few opportunities. Bartering sex is one of the few opportunities.

In Uganda, women are reported to be subordinate to men, and men hold the power in
the households, according to the local traditions. Traditional practices, such as wife
inheritance and polygamy, have been affected as providing unfortunate avenues for
the spread of HIV.

Rape was reported to be a common occurrence when women ventured outside their
camps, especially in the case of IDPs. The perpetrators included rebels, soldiers and
civilians in the host communities. Domestic violence was also reported among couples,
especially among husbands who return home drunk or have extra-marital affairs.
Lastly, early marriage is used by poor parents in all camps to gain bride price and/ or to
reduce the number of mouths in the house to feed, and as a source of additional
resources from the husbands family. In the IDP camp, cases were reported in which
mothers encouraged their teenage daughters to enter into relationships with better-off
men, including soldiers, for economic gain.

While some women barter sex for food, money or other essentials as a means of
"survival" for their families, others work as prostitutes, and young girls in the IDP camps
engage in sex with soldiers and officials in anticipation that they would provide them
with security and trinkets. For men, idleness, boredom and loneliness in the camps,
coupled with the male notions of masculinity and sexuality were reported to be leading
to excessive feelings of the need to demonstrate their maleness and of subscribing to
gender norms that prize multiple sexual relationships for them.

Risk factors that are present in normal Ugandan community life, in the camps these
factors are compounded by the psychological trauma and stress that is associated with
insecurity. In spite of this, IDPs continue to be sexually active and even reported
engaging in "excessive" sexual activity as a means of relieving stress or feeling the
closeness of another.

HIV/AIDS prevention and care services exist and function relatively well, in refugee
camps and to a lesser degree in the host community. But such services are absent in
the asylum seekers camp and among IDPs. Those have been frequently been


                                            71
Social and Gender Assessment


disrupted due to the conflict in the area, mostly caused by rebels of the Lords
Resistance Army.

This study demonstrates that the need for HIV/AIDS programs for refugees, IDPs and
asylum seekers should go beyond the traditional programming model of prevention and
care. The assumption that regular HIV/AIDS programs will work among these
populations in the same way as they work in normal settled communities must be
seriously interrogated. Not only does the current standard menu of HIV/AIDS
prevention strategies and activities need revitalizing, but new program models that
"think outside the box" and address the root causes of high risk behavior must be
considered in order to reduce HIV transmission within IDP, refugee and asylum seeker
populations in Uganda, and between these populations and host populations. New
programming needs to be flexible and tailored to specific circumstances of the
population targeted, thereby taking into consideration cultural norms or patterns, history
of each population category. Such programs must address not just the knowledge,
attitudes and high risk sexual practices amongst these population groups, but the
factors that create and maintain the situations of vulnerability that lead to such attitudes
and practices.

Overall, our recommendations are provided in four areas:

   1. Revisit current approaches to HIV/AIDS programming and think "outside the
      box" to address the factors that drive high-risk behavior;
   2. Revitalize standard approaches to prevention programs and approaches;
   3. Harmonize and coordinate approaches, stakeholders involvement and levels of
      intervention; and
   4. Put in place institutional mechanisms and resources to address the pandemic.




                                            72
                                                           UGANDA Country Report




                            ABBREVIATIONS

AIC      AIDS Information Centre
AIDS     Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
AIM      AIDS/HIV Integrated Model District Programme
AMREF    African Medical Research Foundation
ART      Anti-Retroviral Therapy
ARV      Anti-Retroviral Drugs
BCC      Behavior Change Communication
CDA      Community Development Assistant
CHAI     Community HIV/AIDS Initiative
CHW      Community Health Worker
CRD      Community Resilience Dialogue
DRC      Democratic Republic of The Congo
DRT      Development Research and Training
GLIA     Great Lakes Initiative on AIDS
GLR      Great Lakes Region
GoU      Government of Uganda
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDP      Internally Displaced People
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
IGA      Income-Generating Activities
IOM      International Organization for Migration
IRC      International Rescue Committee
LC       Local Council
LRA      Lords Resistance Army
MAP      Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa
MIPH     Makerere Institute of Public Health, Makerere University
MoGLSD   Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development
MISR     Makerere Institute of Social Research
MoH      Ministry of Health
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NOPA     National Overarching Policy on AIDS
NSF      National Strategic Framework
OCHA     Organization for Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance
OVC      Orpahs and Other Vulnerable Children
PLWHA    People Living With HIV/AIDS
PEAP     Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PMTCT    Prevention of Mother-To-Child Transmission
SGBV     Sexual and Gender-Based Violence
SMEC     Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
STD      Sexually Transmitted Disease
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
TASO     The AIDS Support Organization
TBA      Traditional Birth Attendant
TOR      Terms Of Reference
UAC      Uganda AIDS Commission
UACP     Uganda AIDS Control Program
UN       United Nations

                                    73
Social and Gender Assessment


UNAIDS         Joint United Nations Program On HIV/AIDS
UNHCR          United Nations High Commissioner For Refugees
UNICEF         United Nations Childrens Fund
URCS           Ugandan Red Cross Society
USAID          United States International Development Agency
USD            United States of America Dollars
VCT            Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WFP            World Food Program




                                         74
                                                                  UGANDA Country Report



                           CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION

This report outlines the findings and recommendations from an assessment of factors
influencing HIV/AIDS in displaced populations, refugees and internally displaced
people (IDPs) in Uganda that was conducted amongst new caseload Rwandese and
Burundese refugees living in refugee camps in Kibondo District, old caseload
Rwandese and Burundese refugees living in Ulyankulu Designated Settlement.

Uganda hosts refugees - from Rwanda and Burundi, mainly in the south-west; from
Sudan, in the north-west, and from the DRC, mainly in the west. Thus, it was obvious
that refugees would be included as a study group for this Social and Gender
Assessment. Sites in the south-west were chosen as these corresponded to sites
selected by the UAC for the GLIA Support Project in Uganda.

IDPs were also included as a study population in the assessment upon the request of
key national stakeholders because this group suffers high levels of deprivation, live in
insecurity, and little is known regarding HIV transmission within this group and between
them and others.

The findings from this Social and Gender Assessment will provide the Uganda AIDS
Commission (UAC), donors, UN programs, NGOs and national and local governments
with a better understanding of the HIV/AIDS situation in refugee and IDP populations,
and the factors influencing the spread of the virus and the disease. Such an
understanding will guide the development of Component One of the GLIA Support
Project, as well as the development of the national and local initiatives to reduce the
spread of HIV and AIDS.

It will also inform the policies, programs and monitoring and evaluation by local
government, national government ­ Uganda AIDS Control (UAC), Office of the Prime
Minister Uganda AIDS Control Program (UACP), UN agencies - UNHCR, Organization
for Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA), UNICEF, donors and national
and international NGOs (See Annex 3).

This study built upon a preliminary situation analysis undertaken by UNHCR and UAC
in refugee camps and neighboring communities in Mbarara District.The research in
Uganda was performed by the Assessment Team Leader, the Ugandan core
researcher, and a national researcher from Development, Research and Training
(DRT)- the sub-contractors local associate the Uganda. National experts and key
stakeholders from academic organizations, national government, NGOs, the AIDS
Information Centre (AIC), and UNAIDS were all consulted prior to commencement of
the field work in the countryin order to select and approve appropriate sites, collect
background documents, and assess local situations.

Three groups of populations of displaced people were studied:(i) encamped refugees,
mainly from Rwanda, living in Oruchinga and Nakivale Camps in Mbarara District of
south-western Uganda;(ii) IDPs living in an area of insurgency in Gulu District of
northern Uganda; and (iii) Rwandan asylum seekers living in Kibaati Camp in Mbarara
District.

Two refugees camps were selected in Mbarara District in order to assess any
difference in factors influencing HIV transmission among the refugees who had been
settled for longer and had access to farm land in Oruchinga Camp, compared to those
refugees who had no access to land and some of whom were more recent arrivals in
Nakivale Camp.



                                          75
Social and Gender Assessment


Refugee populations were compared with neighboring host populations and others with
whom they interacted near Oruchinga Camp in Mbarara District. No host communities
existed neighboring the camps at Kibaati Camp ­ asylum seekers- and Awer Camp -
IDPs.

In order to provide an in-depth understanding of factors influencing the transmission of
HIV, data was collected through consultation of national stakeholders, review of
existing secondary data and literature; and a field survey. In the field, internationally
accepted participatory methodologies were applied to a standardized research tool
(Appendix 1 of Annex 2) were used to collect qualitative data. This qualitative data was
verified by triangulation method to ensure accuracy.

Analysis of primary field data commenced during the field exercise which ensured that
all key groups and individuals were consulted and allowed feedback to be provided and
verified during the field visit. This analysis continued in Kampala with the Uganda core
researcher, the Team Leader and the national researcher prior to the national feedback
workshop (Annex 3). A workshop report was prepared and distributed to all national
stakeholders and local stakeholder representatives at each study site. This enabled
recommendations to be taken up at national, as well as local levels.

The assessment adopted a mutual learning approach that included capacity building
processes of Community Development Assistants in Mbarara District and IDPs in Awer
Camp, in participatory data collection. Capacity development was provided to the
national researcher in the analysis of data from the field. Local study community
members were also employed as mobilizers and translators




                                           76
                                                                             UGANDA Country Report




                       CHAPTER 2: UGANDA COUNTRY CONTEXT


Ugandas battle against HIV/AIDS can be traced back to the mid-1980s, when the
disease emerged against a backdrop of years of civil strife, economic stagnation and
high levels of poverty. Two decades since the disease was identified in Uganda, AIDS
is still one of the leading causes of death amongst adults between 15-45 years of age.

 HIV and AIDS Prevalence
Since the early 1980s, there was an increase in reported AIDS cases from 17 in 1983
to 43,875 in 1995. The cumulative number of AIDS reported cases as of December,
2002, was 60,974 AIDS of both children and adults. Of the 60,974 reported AIDS
cases, 56,451 (92.6 percent) were adults and 4,523 (7.4 percent) were children less
than 12 years of age82.

The HIV prevalence rate reached its peak in 1992 (then estimated at 30 percent), and
has since declined. At the end of 2003, Uganda had an estimated adult HIV prevalence
rate of 4.1 percent and an estimated 450,000 Ugandan adults and 230,000 children
living with HIV/AIDS83. HIV prevalence rates vary with locality, ranging from 0.7 percent
in Moroto District to 11.9 percent in Lacor Hospital in Gulu District (the district in which
the IDP study population reside). In south-western Uganda, where the encamped
refugees were studied in this assessment, he HIV prevalence is 7.3 percent, being high
in women (8.1 percent) than men (6.3 percent)84.

Approximately 60 percent of adults living with HIV/AIDS are women. It was further
estimated that 940,000 children have been orphaned by HIV/AIDS in Uganda85.
According to STD/HIV Surveillance Reports, young women aged 15-19 are at a higher
risk of HIV infection than men owing to an earlier age at first intercourse. Data from
sentinel sites and the AIDS Information Centers (AIC) further indicate that girls in this
age group are three to six times more likely to be infected by HIV than boys in the
same age group. Among those aged 20-24, the rates of HIV infection are twice as high
for women as for men. The male to female ratio of AIDS cases in the 15-19 year age
group was 1:5 for 20037.
 Government Policies Concerning HIV/AIDS
The Government policy on HIV/AIDS is characterized by openness and political
commitment to combating HIV/AIDS, which has contributed to increased levels of
awareness among the population about the dangers of the epidemic and possible
means of prevention. The National Overarching Policy on AIDS (NOPA) provides the
overall policy and planning environment through which the National Strategic
Framework (NSF) is delivered. Alongside NOPA are other policies, including: The
National Orphans and other Vulnerable Children (OVC) Policy, National Condom Policy
and Strategy, National Policy on HIV/AIDS and the Workplace, the Voluntary
Counseling and Testing (VCT) Policy, and the National Antiretroviral Therapy (ART)
Policy for Uganda, which further refine and contribute to the NOPA.


82 STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report MoH, 2003.
83 Report on the Global Epidemic; UNDP 2003- Human Development Report 2003.. These are the official
UN figures but they do not match Ugandas worst case scenario, UNAIDS 2004. (MoH 2004. Annual
Health Sector Performance Report 2003/04)
84 Uganda HIV/AIDS Sero-Behavioral Survey (UHSBS), Ministry of Health (released to the press on 2nd
May 2005)
85 Situation Analysis of Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Uganda, February 2004, Ministry of Gender,
Labour and Social Development (MoGLSD)/UNICEF (2004). The Revised NSF for HIV/AIDS, Republic of
Uganda / Uganda AIDS Commission 2004.

                                                 77
Social and Gender Assessment



The Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) is the principal guide to all development
activities of the central and local government in Uganda. It is recognized in the PEAP
that the fight against HIV/AIDS requires a multi-sectoral approach and therefore has to
be an integral part of sectoral efforts for poverty alleviation as well as overall
developmental activities in Uganda. This demonstrates the seriousness with which
HIV/AIDS is dealt with in Uganda.

In order to broaden consultation among multiple stakeholders, the Ugandan HIV/AIDS
Partnership model was established in 2002, which aims to coordinate and scale up
HIV/AIDS responses, while giving a clear leadership and coordination role to the
Government. An HIV/AIDS Partnership Committee86 provides a formal coordination
mechanism for discussion, information sharing, consensus building and joint planning.

The role of the MoH is one of policy-making, regulation and supervision. Under the
National AIDS Control Program, the MoH retains responsibility for all medical aspects
of the multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS response across the country.

 Gender Differences Regarding the Impact of HIV/AIDS
Women in Uganda are disproportionately affected by HIV infection compared to men
due to biological, socio-cultural and economic factors. Unprotected heterosexual sexual
intercourse is the main cause of HIV infection87. In refugee and IDP situations, this
disparity is even further increased due changes in societal norms, roles, and the limited
bargaining power of women. In these situations, women use sex in order to access
resources and to achieve some form of livelihood. However, in both IDP and refugee
situations, large numbers of women are forced to have sex against their will. While for
some men such sex may be seen as a way for them to establish their masculinity and
virility, for most women it is a dehumanizing episode in their lives88.

Women also bear the burden of caring for the sick and orphans and of coping with the
emotional trauma of dying spouses and parents. They often forego productive activities
including employment in order to fulfill these domestic duties. Others may be stripped
of their property and discriminated against when they are widowed. Infected women
are likely to suffer more anxiety about their own health and the future of their children
and family because of womens roles of the carer in Ugandan families89.
 HIV/AIDS, Culture and Society in Situations of Displacement
In Uganda, among refugees and IDPs, traditional practices such as widow inheritance,
polygamy, wife sharing and wife replacement, as well as ritual treatment for
barrenness create an environment that is more conducive to the spread of HIV in these
populations than in settled communities. Other cultural factors that perpetuate HIV
infection among refugees and IDPsinclude loss of social self-checking mechanisms
and inadequate family life education and life skills training and communication90.

 HIV/AIDS and the Health Care
According to UNDP (2002)91, the Ugandan population residing within 5kms of a health
facility varies from 9 percent in Kotido to 100 percent per cent in Kampala. Marked

86
   UAC, with MoH, Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) and UNAIDS are
permanent members of the Committee.
87
    This study; MoH 2003. STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report; and UNICEF 2004. Interagency
Humanitarian Assessment of IDPs in Rural Lira
88
   Asingwire and Byaruhanga 1996. HIV/AIDS and Refugees
89
   Republic of Uganda 2004. Report on the Mid-Term Review of the Uganda AIDS Control Project
90
   Asingwire and Byaruhanga 1996. HIV/AIDS and refugees. See comment above
91
   UNDP et al 2002. Local Government Response to HIV/AIDS.

                                              78
                                                                   UGANDA Country Report


variation in access to services exists both within and among districts. Health care
services are only accessible to a small percentage of the population. Health care
access in rural communities is particularly poor. There is also a considerable difference
in access to these both within and between districts92.

The use of traditional healers and medicines in Ugandan communities, including those
in refugee and IDP camps, is quite pronounced. These healers have over time become
quite expensive. People have also resorted to self-medication, buying drugs across the
counter at camp drug shops. Further, some herbal medicines are thought to have
curative powers for some AIDS symptoms and as a result becoming increasingly used..

Although in recent years prices for anti-retroviral drugs (ARV) have declined greatly in
Uganda, the therapy is still mainly available only to those who can afford to pay. ARVs
are not available to refugees and IDPs. In fact most IDPs and refugees do not know
that there are drugs that can prolong the onset of AIDS in an HIV-positive person.




92
     Republic of Uganda 2000. Learning from the Poor

                                                   79
Social and Gender Assessment



                      CHAPTER 3: REFUGEES AND IDP'S IN UGANDA



In Uganda at least 1.6 million of a population of 24 million people are displaced ­ 7
percent of the population. Those who are displaced include approximately 250,000
refugees, at least 1.4 million IDPs, and 45,000 night commuters93. Figure 1 shows the
distribution of the displaced people as of 2004.

 Refugees in Uganda
Owing to political instability and ethnic conflict in the neighboring countries of Rwanda,
DRC, Sudan and Burundi, Uganda is host to about 255,000 registered refugees (2005
figures) in eleven of its fifty-four districts. Although the majority living in the north east
are Sudanese a sizeable proportion, approximately 20 percent of the total, originate
from the GLR countries. Table 1 provides a breakdown of refugees by gender for
refugee camps / settlements throughout Uganda.

Table 3           Refugee Statistics in Uganda
                                                                GENDER                         Total
     District          Camp
                                                            Male     Female
     Adjumani  Adjumani/Pakelle                             31,680    30,023                   61,703
     Moyo      Mayo/Palorinya                               16,158    15,248                   31,406
     Yumbe     Ikafe                                         6761      5,241                   12,002
               Madi-Okolo                                    3,723     3,527                    7,250
   Arua
               Rhino Camp                                   12,562    13,611                   26,173
               Imvepi                                        8,270    10,612                   18,882
   Mbarara     Nakivale                                      8,016     7,288                   15,304
               Oruchinga                                     2,161     2,101                    4,262
   Hoima       Kyangwali                                     8,944     8,253                   17,197
   Kyenjojo    Kyaka I                                       1,338     1,651                    2,989
               Kyaka II                                      3,109     3,121                    6,230
   Masindi     Kiryandongo                                   7,182     7,326                   14,508
   Kasese      Ibuga                                           810       708                    1,518
   Kawenge     Kahunge                                         130       109                      239
               Rwamwanja                                        22        22                       44
               Urban Caseload ­
   Kampala                                   2,132                           1,0878              3,219
               OPM
               Urban Caseload                  114                             128                242
               GRAND TOTAL                 113,112                         110,056            223,168
Source: UNHCR (2004): Refugee statistics94

In Uganda, refugee activities are regulated by The Control of Alien Refugees Act of
1960 (and subsequent amendments thereof)95. This Act makes provisions for "the
proper control of aliens and refugees96, for regulating their return to their country of
residence and for making provision for their residence while in Uganda".



93
   Individuals who travel into major cities or other safe places at night for fear of rebel attack and abduction
by LRA rebels ­ mostly women and children.
94
    Note that 920 Rwandans have repatriated January 19th ­24th 2004 to Rwanda, under the current
repatriation program.
95 A new bill is before Parliament and this is aimed at updating the Control of Alien Refugee Act.
96 The Act defines an alien as "a person who is not a citizen of Uganda or a protected person within the
meaning of the Uganda Citizenship Act", and a refugee as "any person being one of a class of aliens
declared by the Minister by statutory instrument to be refugees for the purpose of the Act".

                                                      80
                                                                                 UGANDA Country Report


The key provisions of the Act relate to residence (where refugees may be ordered to
reside in specified places), offences and penalties (where it is an offence for refugees
found in Uganda to be in places other than in a refugee camp without a permit), and
powers of the Director (where directions may be issued for the organization, safety,
discipline and administration of the camps; and the reception, treatment, health and
well-being of refugees. Other provisions also prohibit the harboring of a refugee except
with the consent in writing of the director; and also restrict entry into refugee camps.
The relevance of these provisions to the present study specifically focuses on its
restrictive nature in terms of movement and hence attainment of suitable livelihood.

IDPs in Uganda

The official estimate of IDPs in Uganda is 1.4-1.6 million IDPs97, mainly in Northern
Uganda in 4 districts primarily ­ Gulu, Kitgum, Pader and Lira. Displacement has been
largely due to the Lords Resistance Army (LRA) insurgency. However, the real number
could be more than 2 million as hundreds of thousands of IDPs live with relatives or in
camps not yet fully recognized by the government. In addition to these IDPs, 45,446
mostly women and children move to safe places, mainly the townships of Kitgum, Gulu,
Pader and Kalongo at every night to avoid rebel attack and capture.. Gulu, the district
in which this social and gender assessment took place, is the hardest hit by the
insurgency, with over half a million registered IDPs98.

Although the intensity and frequency of LRA attacks reduced considerably in the
second half of 2004, insecurity still prevails. Living conditions in the camps are
appalling, with a widespread lack of infrastructure and basic services, including
schools, health care, and water and sanitation facilities. IDPs living in unrecognized
camps have not received any food assistance and do not receive army protection.
Abductions, killings and looting by the LRA continue to impede any large-scale return
of IDPs. To- date three thousand children have been abducted by the LRA.

The Prime Ministers Office ­ Directorate of Refugees ­ is responsible for refugees and
IDPs in Uganda, working with UNHCR for the provision of refugees. At the time of this
Social and Gender Assessment this directorate has recently prepared a policy on IDPs
to address their care and security, and to place for the development of affected areas
upon the termination of the insurgency and the return of the displaced population to
their places of origin.




97 According to a World Health Organization Report of use month, day and year 23rd August 2004, the
estimate of internally displaced people in the Acholi Sub-Region, Lango (Lira and Apac Districts), parts of
Teso (Soroti, Katakwi and Kaberamaido Districts), and Madi (Adjumani) is over 1,600,000 people.
98 Norwegian Refugee Council

                                                    81
Social and Gender Assessment


Figure 3    Displaced People in Uganda ­ October 2004
(Source: OCHA)




.


.



                                    82
                                                                        UGANDA Country Report


            CHAPTER 4: ENCAMPED REFUGEES IN MBARARA DISTRICT

The fieldwork among refugees was carried out in Nakivale and Oruchinga Refugee
Camps, which are located in the eastern half of Mbarara District in South Western
Uganda. The host population of Ugandan nationals in the surrounding parishes is
estimated to number about 15,000 people (See Chapter 5).


                        CHARACTERISTICS OF THE CAMPS
Nakivale and Oruchinga Camps are situated in Mbarara District to the south-east of
Mbarara city towards the Tanzanian border. The area for the camps was gazetted
between 1959 and the early 1960s to house Rwandan refugees (mainly Tutsis) flee the
ethnic violence that erupted following independence. Initially, the land set aside for
refugees included land for cultivation. However, over the years much of this land has
been taken over by Ugandan pastoralists and influential Ugandans, restricting the land
that refugees have to grow additional food for their families.

UNHCR gives "international protection" to the refugees and facilitates their stay in
Uganda, through its implementing partner, the Ugandan Red Cross Society. The
Ugandan Red Cross Society provides for the day-to-day care of the refugees by
providing food, non-food items, education, water, sanitation, and health and community
services. A Camp Commandant, who is an employee of the government, oversees the
management of the camp to ensure GOU policy is followed, and security is maintained.
A Camp Committee of elected refugees works with the Ugandan Red Cross Society to
distribute food and non-food materials, and to provide a form of governance.

There are two dominant forms of livelihood undertaken by the host community in the
area of the camps, namely pastoralism and cultivation of green bananas (matoke).
Most of the pastoralism is undertaken in the valley between the hills, which also
accommodates the refugees. The cultivation of matoke, mostly for sale to the Mbarara
and Kampala urban markets, by the host population relies considerably on the cheap
labor offered by refugees.

Health service delivery in the camps was based on the "Minimum Healthcare Package
(MHP)" as defined by the Uganda MoH, which includes basic preventative and curative
services. Services included basic curative health, health prevention, and HIV/AIDS
programs. Community Health Workers (CHW) who are trained in primary health care,
and HIV/AIDS prevention, are assigned to refugees. One CHW was assigned to a 10-
house cell.

     Nakivale Camp Features
Nakivale Refugee Camp lies in a basin between the hills of Kasumba and Ngarama
and Lake Mburo National Park to the North; Lake Nakivale to the east, Ngarama Hills
Sub-county to the west and Rugaaga Sub-county to the south. The camp is 62 km from
Mbarara by a well-surfaced gravel road. The camp is 40kms from the nearest official
border crossing to Tanzania at Bugango. It is divided into 11 zones based on
nationality and the time of arrival in the camp99.

As of May 2004, the camp had a population of 15,003 refugees, 66 percent of whom
were children aged below 18 years. The ratio of adult men to women was 11:10. Seven



99
  The zones include Kabahunda (Rwanda), Kityaza (Rwanda), Kashojwa (Rwanda), Isangano (Rwanda),
Kabazana (Rwanda), Nyamurenge (Rwanda), Kigali zone (Old Rwanda), Kiretwa B (Old Caseload),
Somali/Ethiopian Zone, and Congolese Zone.

                                              83
  Social and Gender Assessment


  nationalities are represented in the camp100, with Rwandans representing 83 percent of
  the total population. Thirty-one percent of households are single person households,
  while 63 percent had between 2 and 6 members, as shown in Table 2.

  Table 4          Household Size of Refugee Population of Nakivale Camp
                                           Household Size
                 1     2     3      4     5     6      7  11 Total
                                                             8     9   10
No. of
Households 1514 702  680  766  555  346  167  59  42  10 01 4,842
Total
Population 1514 1404 2040 3064 2775 2076 1169 472 378 100 11 15,003

  "Old caseload refugees" (approximately 50 percent of the households) have some
  access to land (0.5-3 acres per household) upon which they cultivate crops, such as
  beans, maize and groundnuts. A few of these refugees are able to sell crops for cash in
  the market. Women perform most of the agricultural activities. However, much of the
  land originally set aside for refugees in the early 1960s is now used by Ugandans101. A
  few refugees are engaged in petty trading by selling and reselling food rations, and
  other wares bought from traders. The only other livelihood activity that exists is working
  for food on host community farms ("okushaka").

   Oruchinga Camp Features
  Oruchinga Refugee Camp is located in Kikagati Sub-county, also in Mbarara District. It
  is situated on a savannah grassland basin that lies between the hills of Ngarama, Lake
  Rwamurunga (or Oruchinga) and Kagera River, which forms the border between
  Uganda and Tanzania. The camp is 67km from Mbarara on a first-class motorable
  earth road. The nearest gazetted border crossing to Tanzania is at Kikagati, some 20
  kms to the south of the camp. The nearest crossing to Rwanda is approximately 48
  kms from the camp.

  As of May 2004, the total population of the camp was 3,947 people, mainly of Rwandan
  Hutu origin (estimated by camp officials to be about 95 percent). Of these, 2004 were
  males and 1943 females102. As in Nakivale Camp, the majority of households were
  single person households (33 percent), with 55 percent having 2 to 6 members, as
  demonstrated in Table 3.

  Table 5          Refugee Population of Oruchinga Camp
                                            Household Size
                    1    2    3     4     5    6    7     8                     9    10        Total
  No. of
  Households 455           214     223    184    130      92     38     17      5     1        1,359
  Total
  Population 455           428     669    736    650      552   266    136     45    10        3,947

  100
        Numbers of each nationality in the camp - Sudanese (88), Congolese (1246), Rwandan (12,412),
  Kenyans (03), Burundians (315), Somalis (873), and Ethiopians (66).
  101
       Nakivale Camp was established in the early 1960s to host Rwandan Tutsis. At the time of camps
  establishment, it was proposed to occupy approximately 84.5 square miles, which included land cultivation
  for the refugees. However, this land was never properly surveyed or gazetted as a camp or refugee
  settlement. Following the return of many Tutsi refugees following the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, much of
  the land allocated for refugees fell vacant. This land was taken over by Ugandan pastoralists and a
  number of influential Ugandans. Therefore, when a new wave of refugees ­ this time, Hutus- began to
  arrive from Rwanda and from the closure of Kahunge, Rwamwanja and Kyaka II Camps, the land for
  refugees was limited - Personal interview with Mr. David Mugenyi, Camp Commandant, Nakivale Refugee
  Settlement, 9 June 2004.
  102
       Source: Uganda Red Cross Society ­ SWRO Mbarara: Health/Nutrition /HIV/AIDS, Jan. 2003 ­ April
                                                                                                         th
  2004 ­ Report presented to Health/Nutrition/HIV/AIDS Coordination Meeting held at Hotel Africana, 24 -
     th
  25 May 2004.

                                                     84
                                                                               UGANDA Country Report



In recent times, it was reported that there were significant increases in the numbers of
Rwandan refugees in Uganda originating from Tanzania, reportedly due to the
repatriation of Rwandan refugees from the Tanzanian camps103.

The camp is divided into six administrative zones with differing population sizes. The
majority of households do not have access to land for cultivating crops. Therefore,
even fewer livelihood opportunities exist compared to Nakivale Camp.

 STI and HIV/AIDS in the Camps
The leading causes of death in the refugee populations, as well as the host
communities, include malaria and anemia, while malaria and cough/pneumonia are
leading causes of illness.

Although no reliable estimates exist for HIV prevalence in Nakivale or Oruchinga
Camps, health workers believed that prevalence was higher among the host population
than among the refugees. This is believed to be attributed to the availability of health
programs at the Health Centre in the Camp coupled with a massive health education
and condom distribution program, which was managed by Community Health Workers
(CHWs).

The Ugandan Red Cross runs a health centre within the precincts of Nakivale Camp,
and the Nshungyezi Health Centre just outside Oruchinga Camp. Nakivale Health
Centre III provides health services to refugees and surrounding host populations of
over 25,000 people residing within two hours walking distance. Nakivale Health Centre
III provides preventive, outpatient curative, antenatal care and in-patient services for
children, general and maternity patients. A similar range of services, serving a
population of 26,000 people from the camp and surrounding Kajaho Parish, is offered
at Nshungyezi Health Centre on the outskirts of Oruchinga Refugee Camp. However,
due to the better drug situation at the centre, attendees come from as far away as
Tanzania and villages in Isingiro Country to obtain treatment.

These two health centers provide health preventive services, including immunizations,
a HIV/AIDS and STI program, health visiting by Community Health Workers (CHWs),
assessing nutritional and sanitary coverage, and curative services.

The HIV/AIDS program involves (i) mobilization and sensitization of communities
through volunteer community health workers on HIV, AIDS and STIs (administered by
the Ugandan Red Cross Society - using drama groups, peer educators and Prevetion
of Mothe to Child Transmission (PMTCT) educators), (ii) carrying out VCT on a monthly
outreach basis104; (iii) condom distribution by community health workers at easily
accessible sites within the community and health care facilities; (iv) STI control and
treatment; (v) supplementary feeding for refugees infected with HIV; (vi) PMTCT; as
well as (vii) school visiting. The demand for VCT was reported to be very high, but the
ability of the Health Centers to handle such demand was very limited, with the monthly
outreach targeting only 30 people for testing per visit per camp105- far below the
number of refugees and Ugandan nationals who want to be tested. More women, in
particular, were reported to be testing due to better health-seeking behavior and

103
    The Tanzanian Government currently has in place a policy of repatriating Rwandan and Burundian
refugees in Tanzanian camps arguing that the political situation in those countries has stabilized. Many
who do not want to return to their home countries yet seek refuge elsewhere or simply melt into other
refugee populations.
104
    AIDS Information Centre (AIC) (Mbarara Brach) provides outreach VCT services; and Ugandan Red
Cross Society-employed counselors follow-up HIV+ and AIDS cases
105
    It was reported that sometimes as many as 80 or 100 people come to the monthly VCT clinic, but that
only 30 of these are handled on a first-come-first-served basis.

                                                  85
Social and Gender Assessment


because many women wanted to seize the opportunity to bear healthy babies through
the PMTCT Program even if they themselves were HIV positive. Men were reported to
fear being stigmatized, and hence attended in smaller numbers. However, most
respondents who were interviewed for this assessment complained that the service is
not regular and only handles a very small number of people on any day of testing, a
factor that leads to frustration among those wishing to test for HIV106.

No ARVs are administered at the clinic. A quick enquiry among people attending the
Health Centre revealed that there are very few people who even know about ARVs.
Health officials in Uganda Red Cross Society (URCS) pointed out that it was difficult to
inform people about the treatment when they were not able to deliver ARVs.

 Relations between the Refugee and Host Populations
There is a complex relationship between the refugees/camp administration and host
populations. Host populations involved in cultivation consider the refugees a cheap
source of labour. For those Ugandans who are pastoralists, however, the
refugees/camp administration represents encroachments of lands for grazing
designated specifically for refugees. Finally, in broader context the host communities
often exploit the refugees financially and sexually as well as discriminate against them.

       RESEARCH FINDINGS - ENCAMPED REFUGEES AT NAKIVALE AND
                          ORUCHINGA CAMPS
This section reports the findings from consultations with mainly Rwandan refugees in
both Oruchinga and Nakivale Camps. Where differences in the factors influencing HIV
transmission exist between the Rwandans and other nationalities, for example in
Nakivale Camp, this information is specifically referenced.
 HIV/AIDS Awareness and Attitudes
Awareness about HIV and AIDS is consistently high in both camps, and the risk of
engaging in unprotected sex is clearly known. This knowledge is a result of the
HIV/AIDS campaigns conducted over the past 10 years by the Ugandan Red Cross
Society.

However, for most poor women, in particular, food insecurity was considered as a
bigger problem than contracting HIV. Hence, such women were reported to be
prepared to risk contracting HIV in order
to obtain an adequate supply of food for    One woman: "We Rwandese have seen a
their households. In addition, the          lot of death and have stopped fearing
Rwandan refugees, particularly those who    it". A man: "If your message is that
had fled the 1994 genocide, reported that   AIDS kills, there is no type of death
they did not fear death and so did not fear that we have not seen before" (Middle-
contracting HIV and the probability of
                                            aged key informants, Oruchinga Camp).
dying of AIDS, as indicated in the textbox.

In one focus group discussion in Oruchinga Camp, it was also revealed that some
Rwandans deliberately practice unprotected sex because they want to procreate. More
men rather than women seemed to propound this idea. It was alleged that they worried
about the serious reduction in their numbers due to the war in Rwanda and hence
dedicated themselves to proactively produce as many children as possible to counter
Rwandan losses.




106                                                                  th
      Interview with Health Staff and CHWs at Nakivale Health Centre, 9 June 2004.

                                                    86
                                                                                 UGANDA Country Report


 Sexual Practices
Promiscuous sexual behavior involving multiple partners was reported in all focus
group discussions in both camps, to be a factor underlying many social and economic
interactions that take place in both Nakivale and Oruchinga Refugee Camps, and
between refugee women and host population men. Transactional sex undertaken by
women and adolescent girls occurs in return for money (negotiated in advance-
professional or commercial sex work), and in return for obtaining essential goods or
small amounts of money for these goods (sex bartering). Both refugee women who
engage in commercial sex and those who barter sex do so largely for economic
reasons. Somali and Congolese women did not seem to engage in transactional sex,
largely as a result of perceived stronger traditional, religious and community mores,
and the close-knit nature of the communities.

According to camps officials, Ugandan men were mostly to blame the transactional sex
involving refugee women. Refugee women, particularly those aged between 14-40
years, bartered sex mostly with Ugandan businessmen who come to the camps on
market days to sell merchandise or on other days to purchase produce. Other
categories of men involved in the sex business with refugee women, in order of
importance, include Ugandan lorry and truck drivers, refugee and host boda-boda
(motor-cycle) transporters, rich Ugandan farmers in the neighboring villages, Ugandan
NGO and Government officials working with the refugees, and members of the
Refugee Welfare Committees. Women whose husbands were poor were in most
instances more likely to engage in sex bartering than better-off women. These women
bartered sex for food, alcohol or whatever money was offered.

Sexual activities were reported from both camps to take place in different locations:
 In banana plantations where richer farmers engaged in sex with mostly refugee
 women who come to forage or to work for food;
 In alcohol drinking places, where women offered sex in exchange for alcohol and
 money to buy clothes;
 In the bushes, where men and women meet for sex;
 In school classrooms in the Camps, where some teachers were reported by both
 pupils and parents to be engaging adolescent girls in sex in exchange for higher
 marks; and
 Around places of worship outside the Camp in host communities, where believers go
 to attend overnight prayers, but in the process became involved in sexual
 relationships.

Prostitution or commercial sex was mostly practiced by unmarried, widowed or
separated women in the camps and in the host community who had few other
opportunities to earn money to meet their basic needs. Fees charged range from
Shs.200 to Shs.2,000 ($0.12 to $1.20 USD). It was further reported by some men in
the host communities that refugee prostitutes were "cheaper" due to their personal
financial circumstances, compared to Ugandan female sex workers.

Male refugees, on the other hand, attributed the high level of sexual activity in the
camps to idleness, the consumption of alcohol and lack of privacy. They also reported
that displacement had separated many families leading to the acquisition of new
partners in the camp107.

Sexual practices among older children and youth were also reported by parents and
community leaders to be on the increase in both camps. Some youth simply disappear
into the nearby bushes or leave their homes on other pretexts in order to experiment
107
    It was further reported that in recent times efforts by the International Committee of the Red Cross to
trace families had led to identification of previously separated family members, but that in some instances
these members had already started co-habiting with another man/woman.

                                                    87
Social and Gender Assessment


sexually with their peers. This was reported to be true for adolescents both in and out
of school. In other instances, as was reported in Oruchinga Camp, school girls offer
sex to older men in exchange for scented soap, trinkets, or sweets, and to teachers in
return for higher marks.

In the majority of instances cited above, condoms were rarely used between adults,
although male youth reported using condoms more consistently than any other group.
This is because male youth feel comfortable collecting condoms from distribution
points, whereas married men fear recognition and women feel embarrassed and being
labeled as prostitutes.

Some cultural sexual practices are not consistent with the use of condoms. Rwandan
respondents reported that they preferred to have sex using the kachabali method. This
is a sexual practice that is performed by constant rubbing of the tip of the penis on the
womans clitoris before penetration. A condom was said by male Rwandans to make
this favored practice "very complicated" and "unsatisfying".

   Idleness
Most refugees living in camps, especially those who have little or no access to
cultivable land, spend a great deal of their time idle. Idleness was reported by this
category of refugees and by community leaders to lead to despondency, redundancy,
high alcohol consumption, drunkenness and to heightened sexual activity, including
sexual violence. Idleness was blamed on the lack of economic resources and livelihood
opportunities available in the camps. While women were also seen to be idle around
the camps, idleness was reported to be a problem more of men and male youth than of
women.

Heightened sexual activity related to idleness occurred in several forms, most of which,
if involving adult men as opposed to male youth, did not involve the use of condoms:

    Consenting sexual intercourse between men and women at a bar where both
    parties are intoxicated by alcohol
    Rape of women by men who are drunk
    Affairs between married men and women to "relieve the boredom".

Among the youth, idleness was also reported to be leading to increased consumption
of narcotic drugs, which reported to lead to rape.




                                           88
                                                                            UGANDA Country Report


Disempowerment and Hopelessness

This Social and Gender Assessment in Uganda revealed a feeling of helplessness and
hopelessness among refugees in both camps as a result of their status as refugees.
Male refugees, felt more strongly about the issue of disempowerment than females.
This feeling was attributed to the lack of control by the refugees over their destiny.
These feelings were attributed to the following:
 Being in a camp without their own property
 Movement of refugees outside the camp is restricted to not more than 3 km
 Dependency on UNHCR and Ugandan Red Cross Society (URCS) for food, shelter
   and the basic necessities such as shelter, clothing, and basic services
 Erosion of mens self-perceived traditional role as provider. Discrimination by the
   host community due to unequal power relations. Discrimination amongst the
   nationalities within the refugee community. For example, the Batwa in Oruchinga
   Camp were disregarded by other ethnic groups, as demonstrated in Case Study 1
   in Annex 4.

  Congestion and the Camp Environment
Congestion and the camp environment is one of the most vivid features that impact on
the livelihood of refugees. In both Oruchinga and Nakivale Camps, crowded and
temporary camp-like structures were observed by researchers to be the main form of
housing. Most of the community members that the researchers talked to confirmed this
problem. This cramped
nature of housing was         (i) One man reported in Oruchinga Camp, and the focus male group
largely blamed for the        participants concurred, that neighbors engaged in sexual liaisons
                              because the houses are so close together that one can see their
multitude of social ills that
                              neighbors wife bathing, which may in turn leads to the development of a
affect the population.        sexual relationship.
Social cohesion was           (ii) A woman respondent in Nakivale Camp community meeting reported
reported to have broken       that cramped conditions in houses lead to children seeing and hearing
down in both camps, and,      their parents engaging in the sex acts. As a result, older children and
in particular, the lack of    youth were reported to copy their parents by also engaging in sex acts.
privacy was reported to
be leading to increased intimacy and hence to increased sexual activity among the
camp residents outside of marriage or a permanent union for the reasons given in the
textbox.

Similar information and analysis emerged from participants in the national feedback
workshop held in Kampala, in particular researchers from the Makerere Institute of
Public Health (MIPH) who had also previously carried out studies on HIV/AIDS in IDP
and refugee camps.

Congestion was reported by all groups in both camps to be the result of limited land
available to the refugees.

 Food Insecurity and Limited Livelihood Opportunities Available Outside the
 Camp

The food security situation in both refugee camps depends on three key factors,
namely, (i) the amount and quality of food that is provided by World Food Program
(WFP) through the Ugandan Red Cross Society; (ii) the availability of off-farm income
earning opportunities; and (iii) the availability of food-for-work opportunities among host
populations.

The food ration that is given to refugees is not 100 percent (except in the case of
people living with HIV or AIDS (PLWHA), disabled, unaccompanied minors, and those
                                                 89
Social and Gender Assessment


who are malnourished). On a monthly basis, the following rations are given, based on a
50 percent estimation of individual needs.

Table 6       Showing Food Rations for Oruchinga Refugee Camp108
                         Amount distributed per       Percentage of estimated
                               person in kg                requirement
Cereals                           6.7 Kg.                      50%
Pulses                            1.0 Kg                       60%
Vegetable oil                     0.5 Kg                       80%
Salt                              0.15 Kg                     100%
Source: Camp Commandant's Office, Oruchinga, June 2004.

The main objective behind providing only part of the required ration is to ensure that
refugees also contribute food by growing crops to supplement that which is given by
WFP. However, our findings reveal that not all refugees are able to grow their own
food, either because they do not have access to adequate land, or due to problems in
acquiring agricultural inputs (the researchers estimate that in Oruchinga Camp, this
applies to the majority of the population; while in Nakivale Camp, this applies to about
half of the households).

In Oruchinga and Nakivale Camps, much land that was previously allocated for
refugees has now been taken over by Ugandan nationals who have established large
plantations in the case of Oruchinga Camp and pastures in the case of Nakivale Camp.
In Oruchinga Camp, even the remaining land was flooded by the El Niño rains in the
1990s and has now become a permanent lake.

As a result of the lack of access to land, many refugees, both men and women, go out
into the neighboring host communities to work for food (okushaka). The largest burden
of providing food, however, rests on the woman. As such, more women go to forage for
food from host communities than men. Some engage in extra-marital affairs with men
in host communities for purposes of gaining food; others are obliged to give sex to host
farmers in addition to work; while others may be raped by either host community men
or fellow refugee men, who may be drunk, outside the camp.

 Breakdown of Family and Social Structures
Displacement was blamed by a cross-section of Rwandan refugees (men, women
community leaders, camp officials) for the separation of families. Husbands were
separated from their wives, and vice versa. Young adolescents also became separated
from their parents. On arrival in the camps, space for families was very limited, and
large families, some of them with adolescent children, were forced to cram into tiny
spaces, putting adolescents at danger of sexual activity.

Several important effects of this displacement and subsequent encampment were
observed. First, the separation of families and communities led to the loss of social
capital. Refugees in the camp situation were reported to look at one another as
strangers and the element of "shame" regarding sexual matters and behavior became
much diminished. Men and women in the camps reported that many people felt as
though they could do anything, including having sex with a neighbor, without having a
feeling of shame or of being punished.

Secondly, parental control of older children and youth was often limited, one reason
reported by parents why sex between youths was high compared to the situation in
when they lived in Rwanda.


108
      This ration was reported to have come in force in January 2004.

                                                      90
                                                                              UGANDA Country Report


Thirdly, the cramped living conditions led to children seeing sex being performed by
adults in the shelter. This had the negative effect of laying bare to the children the
otherwise sacred nature of sex. Not surprisingly, therefore, many older children (from
age 10-12 years) were reported by different groups of people (camp officials,
community leaders, community workers, parents) to be practicing sex in ways that
imitated their parents.

Lastly, traditional gender roles within the household between husbands and wives have
altered in refugee camps ­ as discussed in section below. In these situations, the aid
delivered by UNHCR and the Ugandan Red Cross Society, as the implementing
partner, relieve men of their traditional role of providing for the family.

Examining the situation of different ethnic groups in the refugee camps, the impact of
disintegration of social and family structures, like regulations, clans and elders on HIV
transmission in the Rwandan refugees can be gauged. For example, refugees who
originated from remote Congolese villages were reported to have come to Uganda with
a very low HIV prevalence rate109, when compared to Rwandan refugees or even the
Ugandan host populations. Their culture remained intact and most Congolese
maintained a closed community-type structure even in refuge, in which respect for
tradition is considered paramount. Similarly, Somali refugees also exhibited a closed
community structure in the refugee camps visited, in which that the population strictly
observed the Islamic faith and forbids sex outside of marriage. Drunkenness,
okushaka, transactional sex and promiscuity were not reported or observed in the
Somali or Congolese refugee populations.

 Gender Issues
In both refugee camps studied, most women reported that being a refugee, displaced
from their home country and living in a camp had changed some of the roles and
responsibilities between women and men in the household. Firstly, given resource
constraints, restrictions on movement, and other limitations, the camp did not provide
an ideal family or household situation in which men and women could perform the roles
that were expected of them traditionally. In a traditional setting, it was reported in all
community meetings, that men would be expected to act as the overall providers for
the family and they were, in particular, expected to earn money and meet household
expenditures. Women, on the other hand, were expected to organize the home and to
ensure that food was prepared for the family. Our findings, on the contrary, indicate
that men are not performing the provider roles because livelihood opportunities are
limited and because food and basic items are provided by the Ugandan Red Cross
Society. Women, on the other hand, were taking on an increasing number of
responsibilities, including provision of money for essentials and of providing additional
food to ensure that variety was "on the table".

Although traditionally women grew household crops for consumption by the family, for
most refugee households there is no land on which women can cultivate. In addition,
the food ration supplied by the Ugandan Red Cross Society is only half of the daily
recommended allowance, and it is monotonous and lacks variety. Thus refugee women
have to search for additional food (more in quantity, quality and variety) either by
purchasing additional food from the camp or host community markets if they have
money, or by foraging for it from farms in the surrounding host community.

The search for food outside the camp may lead women into situations in which they are
in danger of becoming infected with HIV. Two situations were reported: (i) women may
be raped en route; and (ii) when refugee women undertake okushaka (work in return
for food) on host community farms, they may be required to give sexual favors in

109
      Awareness about HIV and AIDS was also reported to be very low in DRC.

                                                   91
Social and Gender Assessment


addition to their labor in return for food ­ such as a bunch of matoke (green bananas),
or some cassava. Women reported that condoms were not used in these instances.
Although women fear HIV infection, their immediate concerns for providing food for the
family today overrode the fear of a disease which may manifest several years in the
future.

The erosion of mens responsibility as providers, resulting in part from reliance on the
Ugandan Red Cross Society, and the "The UNHCR is a husband to all of us ­ both men
reliance on women to supplement the and women. They provide for us all our needs:
familys survival                               food, blankets, childrens education, etc. The role
has led to frustration on the part of women    of a man is no longer visible." - Focus group of
and some disharmony in households, as married women, Oruchinga Camp
highlighted in the textbox. In some circumstances, the emasculation of men in the eyes
of their wives and the subsequent loss of respect by women for their men, was
attributed by married men and women in separate focus groups in Oruchinga Camp to
have resulted in some women taking on additional sexual partners merely because
they feel that tradition has broken down.

Despite the deterioration of mens traditional provider role, refugee men still exercised
some powers in the household, often to the disadvantage of women. Women in both
camps reported that in an average household with an adult male, the expectation was
that the ration card (used for collecting food entitlements) was kept by a man.
Controlling the card meant controlling access to food and non-food resources and other
entitlements. Even in situations where single women, who had their own ration cards,
became married they were expected to surrender their cards to their new spouses.
Cases were reported where men exchanged some of the food received for other goods
or money in the camp market. Such men were reported to use this money for alcohol.
The wives in these households had an even heavier burden in providing food for their
children. Cases were reported in both camps, of women trading sex with members of
the Refugee Welfare Committees in exchange for extra food rations.

Another finding from the field revealed that even in times of difficulties women were
traditionally expected to maintain a culture of silence. Several incidents were reported
where women had been beaten, raped or simply chased out of their homes, but where
no action was taken by the camp authorities because no official report was filed by the
women. Women who were forced to leave their husbands were particularly vulnerable
to becoming involved in prostitution or bartering sex for food to feed their children.

Similarly in both camps, early marriages for Rwandan girls are common. Some
marriages were forced on the girls "to prevent them from becoming spoilt". Ostensibly,
the parents earn a handsome bride price for such girls ­ a way of earning an income
for the parents. It was reported by Rwandan elders and community leaders that in
Rwandan culture girls are married off at the ages 13-14 years. Because such
marriages are unstable in the camp environment, by the time the girls had reached 20
years of age they would have become involved in several "marriages" and/or several
sexual partners, which predisposes them to HIV and STI infection as most of the sex
within these often short-term marriages was unprotected. This, as stated by the
refugee leaders, was a major channel of HIV transmission.

Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) is widespread in the two camps studied. It
was with this recognition that a SGBV Program was started to sensitize victims and
potential victims about their rights, to offer medical and counseling assistance, and to
put in place measures to combat the problem. Rape was reported in community
leaders group and both mens and womens focus group discussions to be the most
common form of sexual violence against refugee women. Most rape took place when
women went far outside the camp to look for food. Men from both refugee camps and
from the host populations all participated in this rape, and in the majority of cases it

                                               92
                                                                  UGANDA Country Report


was reported that most perpetrators were drunk. Instances of rape were also reported
when women went to collect water or firewood, or when they went on the long trek to
seek health services that were not available at the local health centre, or when they
went to visit friends outside of their camps. In Nakivale Camp, the research team was
also informed of previous cases of rape of Somali herds-girls as they tended their goats
out in the pastures (the Somali leaders now prohibit girls tending livestock). It was
reported that the rapists did not use condoms.

Defilement, mainly within households, was another vice reported by women and older
men to be on the increase. But instances were also reported where teachers defiled
their students, and older men way-laid young teenage girls coming from school, luring
them with sweets and soap into sexual relations.

Leaders, women, health care workers and the SGBV Committee members reported
that domestic violence was rampant in both camps. Most of this violence stemmed
from the consumption of alcohol, but was also blamed on the friction and tensions
created by the crowded nature of housing. While Refugee Welfare Committees and
SGBV Committees have been working hard to bring perpetrators to book, the rate at
which domestic violence was occurring, coupled with the culture of silence maintained
by women, had made it difficult for progress to occur. An example of such domestic
violence is provided in Case Study 2 in Annex 4. Women who are forced to leave their
husband as a result of life-threatening domestic violence have an increased likelihood
of engaging in sex work for survival, and therefore of becoming infected with HIV, and
infecting others with the virus.

Elders reported that domestic violence had not been a problem in the villages in
Rwanda. Part of the problem in dealing with domestic and other forms of sexual
violence, it was revealed by SGBV and the Refugee Welfare Committees, was the lack
of effective traditional, societal and legal avenues of recourse. A group of elderly men
in Nakivale Camp reported that in a normal Rwandan society there were traditional
mechanisms for addressing cases of rape, defilement or domestic violence, something
that is grossly missing from people living in refugee situations.
 Entertainment and Gatherings
Entertainment and large gatherings of people provide another cluster of factors that
have an impact on transmission of HIV. In both camps, for example, weekly markets
are held at which different wares, food and merchandise are sold by traders coming
from Mbarara and other Ugandan towns. These markets are both a medium of
exchange and a place for socializing. Large amounts of alcohol are consumed in the
markets and the resultant drunkenness was said by men to lead to impaired judgment
on matters of sex. Traders, in particular, were singled out by male and female refugees
as the most promiscuous group of people who purchased alcohol and lured refugee
women into sexual acts often for small gain or the promise of gain.

Funeral rites, weddings and all-night prayers were reported to be the other gatherings
that influenced the transmission of HIV in Nakivale and Oruchinga Camps. Owing to
idleness among refugees in the camps, funerals attract large numbers of people as a
form of entertainment. During these funerals, the atmosphere tends to be festive and
there is, again, much alcohol consumption, which attendees report leads to
promiscuous sexual behavior ­ casual sexual liaison with partners other than the usual
partner and rarely using condoms - except in the case of refugee male youth. The
same was true of weddings, where it was reported that some people go to the
ceremonies in order to identify potential suitors, or to simply have a good time (which
was further described as meaning "booze and sex").

Various focus groups also blamed all-night prayers (balokole) for the increase in
promiscuous behavior. A community group meeting in the Kigali Zone of Nakivale

                                          93
Social and Gender Assessment


Camp observed that night prayers that were held in distant host communities outside
the camp, such as Mbarara town, were the perfect opportunity for those who wanted to
escape from the "peering eyes of camp-mates" to go and engage in "unlimited sexual
activities".

 STIs Spread by Soldiers Previously Camped near Oruchinga Camp
At the time of the research, no soldiers were present near Oruchinga Camp110.
However, both refugees and local government officials revealed that following
demobilization of the Uganda Army in the DRC, an army barracks was set up in
Oruchinga in 2002. Many soldiers came with Congolese women, but due to the fact
that spouses were not allowed in the barracks, the women found accommodation
within the refugee camp. Many were subsequently abandoned by the soldiers for
refugee women or when the barracks was disbanded. However, leaders, local officials
and the health centre staff reported that the soldiers also brought with them a deadly
STI known locally as "Nkumonye"111. It was reported that in no time after the arrival of
the soldiers, both men and women in the refugee and host populations, were
presenting with signs and symptoms of this deadly STI. The rapid spread of this STI
indicates the prevalence of unprotected sexual activity amongst and between the host
and refugee populations.


 SUMMARY ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS FOR HIV TRANSMISSION FOR
                   ENCAMPED REFUGEES
The above findings point to two broad types of factors that fuel the transmission of HIV
among the Rwandan refugee populations of Oruchinga and Nakivale Camps - primary
and secondary.

The most critical primary factor is unsafe sexual practices, which is due to a
combination of accepted promiscuous behavior, inconsistent use of condoms, impaired
judgement due to drunkenness, forced sex sex bartering and commercial sex as a
survival tool. With regard to forced sex, gender-based sexual violence thrives in spite of
the existence of a SGBV program in the two camps. The absence of a societal or
community checks and balances only serves to accelerate the incidence of SGBV.
Other social factors that lead to this type of behavior among the refugee men were
cited as disintegration of family and societal structures, loss of traditional societal
checks and balances, and loss of traditional responsibilities by refugee men.

- Lack of livelihood opportunities, especially for women, food insecurity, early marriage
and outright sexual exploitation of women emerge as significant influencing factor in
the transmission of HIV among the refugee populations of Oruchinga and Nakivale
Camps. Because of the cultural expectation that women provide food for the
household, many, in the process of searching for the food are involved in sexual
activities, that are reported to be nearly always without condoms and involve sexual
penetration and ejaculation. Refugee women, who exit the camp in search of food, may
become involved in sexual activity in the following ways:

         They may be required to give sex to local host farmers in addition to work for
         food
         They may be accosted by men ­ host or refugee - ending in rape
         They may take a more permanent "boyfriend" in the local host community as a
         means of obtaining extra food or a little money.
110
    Night-prayers are all night praying vigils in which the congregation pray in the church or in makeshift
tent-like structures. Many people (several hundred) attend. People come and go from the praying
congregation throughout the night.
111
    This was reported by the Health Assistant at Nshungyezi to be a very resistant strain of Gonorrhoea.

                                                    94
                                                                  UGANDA Country Report



Similarly, young girls who are married off early, generally often for economic gain for
the parents, often end up in unstable relationships which in turn lead to frequent
separations, multiple partners over a few years and hence increased chances of
becoming infected with HIV.




                                          95
Social and Gender Assessment



           CHAPTER 5: HOST POPULATION AROUND REFUGEE CAMPS

The research team undertook consultations with Ugandan host communities in the
vicinity of Oruchinga Camp to gain an understanding of social and economic
interactions that take place between refugees and host populations, and which of these
factors influence the transmission of HIV. A related objective was to assess the extent
to which the HIV and AIDS situation in the two communities differed in extent and
character, and to shed light on how the different contexts (of refugees and host
populations) in turn influence the HIV and AIDS situation.

The village of Kajaho, near Oruchinga Camp, was purposely selected to represent a
host population with which the refugee population interacted.


                    CHARACTERISTICS OF KAJAHO VILLAGE
Kajaho village is located in Kajaho Parish, Kikagati Sub-County, Isingiro County of
Mbarara District. The village lies 2 km north-east of Oruchinga Refugee Camp.

The Local Council Chairman of Kajaho village estimated the number of households to
be 320, which would convert to approximately 1,400 residents based on an average
household size of 4.4 persons per household112. In the village, there appeared to be
more women of productive age than men. This was also the case in the wider sub-
county of Kikagati113. Community development workers attributed the low ratio of men
to women to out-migration of young adult males in search of employment in Mbarara.

The two principal sources of livelihood among the population of Kajaho are pastoralism
and small-scale farming. Community leaders estimated that approximately one quarter
of the population is engaged in pastoralism while just under two-thirds of the population
is engaged in small scale farming, cultivating mainly green bananas (matoke). This
cultivation relies considerably on the cheap labor offered by refugees. A small
proportion of the population (approximately 10 percent) is involved in petty trading of
basic household items. Other sources of livelihood include brewing, which is mostly
carried out by women, the smuggling of agricultural produce across the international
boundary with Tanzania, prostitution, and casual labor.

A community well-being ranking exercise (See Annex 4- Case Study 3), followed by a
discussion with five local leaders and four key informants confirmed that over half of
the population of Kajaho could be classified as poor, and that a growing number of
these had over the years seen their socio-economic situation worsening.

 STI and HIV/AIDS in Kajaho Village
Mbarara District has been one of the districts with the highest prevalence of HIV. The
sero-prevalence in pregnant women (as representative of the general population) was
10.6%114 in 2001, which was higher than the national average of 6.5%. This figure has
declined markedly since 1992, when HIV prevalence was 30.2%. In recent figures, the
HIV prevalence in the south-east of the country (which includes Mbarara District) was
8.1% in women ­ 7.3 percent for the overall population115. Currently, the most affected
age group is 30-34 year olds. There has been a steady decline in HIV prevalence in

112
    2002 National Population and Housing Census of Kikagati Sub-County (in which Kajaho village is
located)
113
    2002 National Population and Housing Census of Kikagati Sub-County had a population of 22,975
women and 20,745 men.
114
    Figures from 2001- AIC in Mbarara Hospital
115 Uganda HIV/AIDS Sero-Behavioral Survey (UHSBS), by Ministry of Health (released 2nd May 2005)

                                               96
                                                                                UGANDA Country Report


15-19 and 20-24 year olds, and more recently in the age group from 25-29 years. This
decline in HIV prevalence has been attributed to decline in the number of casual sex
partners, delaying the onset of sexual activity, and increased use of condoms in both
males and female youth116. Figures on rural areas in the district were not available.

Kajaho village does not have a health centre, but a small drug-store exists where most
people who "self-prescribe" drugs for themselves go to buy medicines. In most
instances, more serious cases are taken to Nshungyezi Health Centre ­ the Health
Centre serving the refugee population from Oruchinga Camp. Alternatively, patients are
taken to another health centre in a neighbouring parish -Mabona Health Centre.
However, this health centre often lacks drugs and other facilities, especially compared
to the more efficiently-run Nshungyezi Health Centre.

The only HIV/AIDS program that is operating in the vicinity of Kajaho village is an
outreach service from Mbarara District Hospital to nearby Mabona Health Centre. This
is a program aims at creating HIV/AIDS and STI awareness, and provides useful
information about prevention and control of HIV and STI infection, as well as treatment
options including VCT, PMTCT and ARVs, and supplies posters to the Mabona Health
Centre. The program does not provide support in terms of drugs or services.

The radio provides most of the HIV/AIDS messages to the village. Messages included:
"Stay safe, test yourself and move with only one trusted partner"; "do not engage in
unsafe sex - use a condom if you must"; and "Test yourself and prevent transmission to
your unborn baby". In schools the most common message was "True love waits".

Condoms are available in Kajaho village at Shs 100/- for one from two kiosks.
However, most men obtain them from the Community Health Workers who work with
refugees in the camp - because they are free.


                    RESEARCH FINDINGS ­ HOST POPULATION
This section outlines the social and economic interactions (See Case Study 4 in Annex
4) that occur between the refugees from Oruchinga Refugee Camp and the Ugandan
host population in and around Kajaho village; and the possible links between these
interactions and the spread of HIV between the two populations. The section also
outlines the factors influencing HIV infection and transmission in the host population.

 Relations and Interactions between the Refugee and Host Populations
The main types of interactions that were identified between refugees in Oruchinga
Camp and the host community of Kajaho included markets, agricultural activities,
schools, social and cultural festivities, religious activities, as well as use of other
facilities, such as the health centre.

A weekly market is held in Kajaho each Thursday. Refugees and the surrounding host
population both visit the market. Evidence from one of the community meetings
revealed that on market days a lot of alcohol is consumed, usually purchased with
some of the proceeds of the sale of small amounts of produce (chicken, goats,
bananas, beans, groundnuts, etc). Not only does the host population sell foodstuffs, but
several refugees also bring food from their ration allocations to sell or exchange for
other food or for non-food items. The alcohol consumption on market days is usually


116 Makerere University, Department of Social Work and Social Administration 2003. District Response
Initiative on HIV/AIDS- Study Report Mbarara District. In a 2 year surveillance period, a 9% reduction in
casual sex partners occurred in males 15-24 years, a 2 year delay in the onset of sexual activity occurred
in 15-24 year olds, and 30% women increase in and 40% increase in men reported using condoms in 15-
24 year old youth.

                                                   97
Social and Gender Assessment


accompanied by plenty of merry-making and engagement in sexual activity, both
casually and for money. Young adult women, especially those from the refugee
community, were reported by the Kajaho village leaders to come to the market, peddle
sex and use their income to purchase clothes or other household goods.

In the Kajaho community meetings, the main form of interaction between the refugees
and host populations was reported to be provision of cheap labor to the host
community by refugees. Young adult refugee men and women were reported to be
offering their labor in exchange for food (matoke, potatoes and groundnuts). However,
it was also reported that some men in Kajaho took advantage of young refugee
women, some of who were compelled to offer sex in exchange for food or in lieu of
labor. In such instances, the women were reported to be very discrete about these
sexual liaisons as any mention of such activity in their (refugee) community would
attract rebuke from refugee men or even lead to instances of domestic violence.

Primary and secondary schools exist in Kajaho and Rwamurunga (neighboring village)
attract both refugee and host population students. Owing to UNHCR policy of not
supporting education beyond the primary level, refugee children whose parents are
able to afford to send them to secondary schools go outside of the camp environment
to attend schools elsewhere. As a consequence, some girls were reported by refugees
to "fall into money traps [laid] by men in the host population".

Weddings, funerals and other ceremonies were reported by all sections of the
community to be an important form of interaction between refugees and the host
population of Kajaho. As with markets, most ceremonies involved the consumption of
large amounts of alcohol that consequently lead to promiscuous behavior.

Overall the relationship between the host community and the refugees is good on the
surface, but underneath the surface (i) the refugees allege exploitation in terms of
labour and social relations; and (ii) the host population is concerned about the growing
pressure for cultivable land. The host communitys concern about land has lead to
encroachment on land previously designated for refugees. This is causing increased
tensions between the two populations.

 Factors Influencing the Transmission of HIV in Kajahao Village
Several factors were reported by different categories of people in Kajaho (older and
younger men and women, businessmen, health workers, community leaders, etc) to be
responsible for the transmission and infection of HIV within Kajaho, between the
Kajaho community and refugees in Oruchinga, and between the Kajaho community
and other neighboring communities and visiting Ugandans.

Poverty

The overarching factor influencing HIV transmission reported by the host community in
Kajaho was poverty. HIV transmission was observed by the research team to thrive in
a context of an imbalance in power between men and women, which was in turn fuelled
by promiscuity (especially by men) and the struggle for survival among women.

Overall, the research team concluded that women in Kajaho village, as in Oruchinga
Camp, experience disproportionate levels of poverty compared to men. Women in both
situations have little or no access to sources of income and their control over
household resources and assets remains very weak. However, the situation of women
in Kajaho appeared to be less precarious than that of women in Oruchinga Camp
because the former have better established social networks, no restriction on



                                          98
                                                                               UGANDA Country Report


movement, and a wider spectrum of livelihood opportunities117 to choose from. In
addition, men in Kajaho village have a wide range of livelihood options that occupy
their time as well as earn income and provide resources for their family, so that their
traditional roles and responsibilities of providing for the household are assumed.
Therefore, women in Kajaho were less likely to barter sex for goods or money,
although women in poorer female-headed households were reported by community
leaders to resort to sex for money or for obtaining basic needs.
                                           "When alcohol enters ones blood system, the
Drunkenness                                first thing it awakens is the sexual urge.
The consumption of large amounts of
                                           Thereafter nothing matters ­ not even AIDS
alcohol on market days, at social and
cultural ceremonies, and even in can stand in the way of a man who wants to have
ordinary bars was reported by sex". Chairman of Kajaho Village, aged 54 years
community leaders in Kajaho to lead to promiscuous sexual behavior and hence to the
spread of HIV in the host community. Drunkenness was reported to be a factor that led
to impaired judgment in the decision to engage in sexual intercourse and it was further
reported to lead to an increased urge (libido) among both men and women in the
community, as expressed in the textbox.

In Kajaho trading centre, for example, a total of nine drinking places were identified, the
majority of these selling both local banana beer as well as local gin (waragi). Some of
the bars were reported by a key informant to be used as local brothels as well.

Promiscuity
Promiscuity, the practice of having multiple sexual partners or relationships, was the
other factor that was reported by all focus groups, local leaders and the community at
large as influencing the spread of HIV and AIDS. Older women in Kajaho blamed
promiscuity on infidelity among men and the tendency for tradition of praising men who
engaged in more than one sexual relationship for their manliness. On the other hand, a
group of younger women (aged 17-25) attributed promiscuity to the lack of access to
cash (by young women) and the need for them to obtain basic goods, including clothes,
all of which meant that they befriended men with cash and had sex with them.

A discussion with a group of middle-aged men (ages 30-45 years) revealed that the
men believed that there was nothing wrong with a man having sexual intercourse with
several women since "there are more women on earth than there men". However,
most promiscuous behavior was associated with alcohol consumption. The use of
condoms was limited when men were drunk due to impaired judgment and physical
ability. Transmission of HIV in such instances was believed to be very high.

Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices regarding HIV/AIDS

Interviews with different groups of respondents in Kajaho revealed that knowledge
about transmission of HIV was high among most community members. Information on
HIV and AIDS was reported by the different groups to be available on radio, during
public meetings, on posters, and in schools. However, this knowledge was inconsistent
with sexual practices, especially where alcohol and infidelity were involved.

Condoms are used mostly by young adult males (18-35 years). Older men "did not like
the idea of condoms". Neither young nor older women thought that they had any power
to make decisions regarding the use of condoms.

Older people (over 50 years) who had seen their children die of AIDS pointed out that
early marriage and "sticking to one partner" were the most practical ways of avoiding

117
    Women in Kajaho sell crops and small animals (goats, chicken, etc) in the market; others sell a range
of goods in the market; and a smaller number go to markets further away from Kajaho

                                                   99
Social and Gender Assessment


AIDS. However, these sentiments were not equally shared by the majority of young
men, some of whom stated that despite their knowing that unprotected sex risked HIV
infection, they still prefer having "live" sex (without a condom) as it is "more enjoyable".


  SUMMARY OF FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV TRANSMISSION IN HOST
                       POPULATION
Like the refugees in neighboring Oruchinga Camp, the population of Kajaho village was
knowledgeable about HIV/AIDS transmission and prevention, and condoms were
available. Despite this, high risk sexual behavior still occurred as a result of personal
preference for not using condoms, drunkenness, and deliberate promiscuous behavior.
A major difference between the two populations was that, except for poor women who
have children to support but have no husband, women in the host population although
struggling against poverty, do not opt for transactional sex as a means of obtaining
necessary cash and household resources. The reasons for this are several fold: (i)
host women have a number of livelihood opportunities and are free to move to seek out
these opportunities; (ii) they have strong social support networks; and (iii) most men
have not lost their traditional roles as providers.




                                            100
                                                                   UGANDA Country Report



                    CHAPTER 6: RWANDAN ASYLUM SEEKERS

During the course of the fieldwork among refugees in Nakivale and Oruchinga Refugee
Camps, the research team was informed of a large group of un-served asylum seeking
Rwandans living in appalling conditions in a makeshift camp of Kibaati near the
Tanzanian border. The researchers decided to include this group of asylum seekers in
the Social and Gender Assessment.

                      CHARACTERISTICS OF THE CAMPS
 Camp Features
Kibaati Camp is located 7 kms from south of Nakivale Camp along a rough gravel road,
20 km from the Tanzanian border, and approximately 45 km from the Rwandan border.
The camp has sprung up in the past 4-5 years since the active repatriation of Rwandan
refugees from Tanzania. It was formed spontaneously by Rwandan refugees who were
unable to return to Rwanda when they were repatriated from Tanzania. These
Rwandans either decided not to return to Rwanda, or had returned to Rwanda to find
their property gone, or returned to harassment and then departed to take refuge in a
third country, Uganda. As these Rwandans refugees are now domiciled in a third
country, they do not qualify for refugee status internationally or according to the
Ugandan government.

While no actual count has been undertaken to establish the numbers of asylum
seekers in this camp, the population has been estimated by Ugandan Red Cross
Society officials to 5,000 to 8,000 inhabitants. It was further revealed that these
numbers seemed to be growing owing to accelerated repatriation activity on the
Tanzanian side of the border. Leaders in Kibaati Camp estimate their population to be
approximately 10,000 people in June 2004.

The asylum seekers receive little or no support in terms of food, shelter, clean water or
basic services. This situation, the research team was informed, was primarily due to
the non-recognition of the Kibaati asylum seekers as refugees by the UN and
government authorities. Without refugee status, these asylum seekers cannot be
assisted by the UNHCR. On the other hand, except for sporadic support by Ugandan
Red Cross, no other NGO or other humanitarian agency had visited or assisted this
group of people.

The asylum seekers in the camp live in a harsh and very unfriendly environment. The
camp comprises makeshift grass-thatched huts situated in a very crowded and ad hoc
situation. This congestion is made worse by the unplanned nature of the camp. No
water or sanitation facilities are available in the camp, and women and children travel
several kilometers to collect water from Lake Nakivale ­ the drinking quality of which is
questionable. During the rainy season water that is not clean, is drawn from ponds and
puddles. Hygiene is poor and the poor health and under-nutrition of children was visible
to the research team.

There is a general lack of social and other services in Kibaati Camp. The nearest
health centre is 7km away in Nakivale Refugee Camp. Although children from the
camp are permitted to attend local primary schools without payment of fees, there is no
school in the vicinity to which children can go. It was reported that even if families
wanted to send their children to the nearest primary school, they are not able to afford
the purchase of school uniforms and scholastic materials. Finally, children who have
attended local schools have been mocked as their clothes are dirty and torn.




                                          101
Social and Gender Assessment


 STI and HIV/AIDS in the Camps
The HIV prevalence among the asylum seekers in this camp is unknown. However, the
figures for refugees in the camps, from where the Rwandan asylum seekers hail in
north-western Tanzania, are as follows:
     HIV- 5.4% in blood donors and 6.9% in those attending VCT Centers ­
        inconsistent figures
     5% deaths in camps attributed to AIDS
     10,000 STI cases in 2003118

No health services exist in Kibaati Camp, as mentioned above. There is no HIV/AIDS
program, although information on HIV and AIDS and condoms had been provided once
or twice by the Ugandan Red Cross Society in an ad hoc manner in the past 4 years.
the asylum seekers come from the refugee camps in north-western Tanzania, in which
HIV/AIDS programs exist. Consequently, knowledge is low and high risk sexual
practices predominate, as discussed below.

 Relations between the Asylum Seekers and Host Population
Refugees have lived in Mbarara District for more than 30 years, and at least 4 percent
of the population of the District is of Rwandan origin. Therefore, relations between the
host and refugee population are amicable. The two groups interact socially and
economically. Despite this, refugees are still regarded as a form of cheap labor and
wives.

Encamped refugees, Ugandan Red Cross Society workers, host communities and local
government officials alleged that asylum seekers were looked down upon by the host
community. Their status, they argued, was perceived to be even lower than that of
refugees, and their worth in the eyes of host communities and better-off refugees was
only in the form of cheap labor. In addition to this, some asylum seekers believed that
because they were Hutus they were being victims of deliberately ethnic discrimination,
especially as the host community had coexisted with Tutsis in the area for 25 years
prior to 1994. Some asylum seekers also believed that the asylum given to the Tutsis
between the late 1950s and 1994 by the Ugandan government and by the people of
Mbarara District was the reason why they did not have recognition or a legal status.

The relationship between asylum seekers and refugees is not strong, except in
individual cases where family ties existed. Asylum seekers approached encamped
refugees for food, which was provided to seekers where possible.


      FINDINGS ­ FACTORS INFLUENCING THE TRANSMISSION OF HIV
As the asylum seekers were a population not initially included for study in Uganda the
amount of data collected from the asylum seeker camp was not as extensive as in the
refugee and IDP situations. The time constraints already placed on the assessment
overall and the lack of any organization in the Kibaati Camp to assist the researchers in
arranging meetings also influenced the extent of data collected.

The factors revealed in consultation with the Rwandan asylum seekers, Ugandan Red
Cross Society workers and local government officials have been clustered into the
following categories for ease of presentation




118
   These figures should be read with caution, as figures in Northwest Tanzania were inconsistent with
each other

                                                102
                                                                  UGANDA Country Report


 HIV Awareness, Knowledge, Attitudes To Sex And Practices
Evidence from consultations in Kibaati Camp revealed a varied picture about
knowledge, attitudes and practices regarding HIV and AIDS. Overall, there was general
awareness of AIDS as a fatal disease. However, awareness about HIV and AIDS was
generally poor amongst the studied population. While some asylum seekers,
predominately those who had attended the Ugandan Red Cross Society information
session, could parrot correct information back to the researcher, they had no real
knowledge or consciousness of the disease, its transmission or prevention. They
repeated facts as if AIDS was a disease that did not affect them. For example, only a
few adults knew or even believed that a person might be infected with the HIV virus but
the person may not be showing the signs of AIDS. Similarly, the awareness that
seemed to exist among the Kibaati population did not appear to translate to safe sexual
practices. Misconceptions abounded about the route of transmission of HIV. For
example, some men and women in Kibaati Camp believed that HIV was transmitted in
the dirty water of Lake Nakivale.

This same applied to the use of condoms- asylum seekers knew that condoms
prevented AIDS but it appeared that this information had not translated to knowledge or
actions relevant to their own lives. An example occurred in a meeting with asylum
seeker women, where it was revealed that most women did not like their men to use
condoms when "playing sex" with them as "this demeaned them to the level of
prostitutes." There was a feeling that condoms should only be used with prostitutes as
it is the prostitute who might be infected with HIV and not their husbands. Further,
some asylum seekers had been confused by a religious group that came to the camp
and used perforated condoms to "demonstrate that condoms do not work" because
they leak.

Old habits die hard                            Both women and men perceived the
                                               danger of contracting HIV and getting
"We have grown up playing sex in a particular way -
without a rubber on the penis. Now we are told that we
                                               sick in the future as being far less
should use a condom. It is not easy to introduce a new
                                               important than the pleasure they derived
way of playing sex at our advanced age. We cannot
                                               from having sex without a condom.
learn new tricks in old age." Group of men aged 40-60
 years in Kibaati Camp
                                               Many men reported that the use of
                                               condoms was a "new idea" that would
take them a very long time to get used to, as expressed in the adjoining textbox.

 Lack of Health Services
The nearest health centre for the Kabaati camp is in Nakivale Refugee Camp some
7km distant. This service is well stocked providing basis prevention and curative care,
as well as STI diagnosis and treatment. And there is no HIV/AIDS program in the
camp. These factors contribute to the spread of HIV in the population.

At the community meeting, it was reported that some women have been raped by
gangs of youths en route to or from this health centre. It is not known who the
perpetrators were, although refugee women in Nakivale Camp reported being raped by
both host and refugee men outside the camps.

Some men (about one-third of the 120 men present in one meeting) strongly believed
that the main mode of transmission of HIV was through blood transfusion at the health
centre. For such men, avoidance of the health centre "at all costs" was enough to stem
the spread of HIV. The researcher was told that since the ad hoc training provided by
the Ugandan Red Cross Society, the numbers of asylum seekers attending the clinic at
Nakivale Camp had declined as a result of this belief.




                                                    103
Social and Gender Assessment


 Male Promiscuous Behavior
Residents acknowledged that promiscuous sexual behavior was quite pronounced in
Kibaati Camp. Both women and men engage in casual sex, for pleasure and "to kill
idleness". Kibaati women also asserted that "abstinence was not an option for their
men". This led to the unfaithfulness of husbands, especially in situations where the wife
is away for long periods in a day, leaving very early to forage for food, and returning
very late and being tired. Such women reported that their only focus was on survival
and providing food for the family. With such an arduous task, they said that they had no
time or energy to engage in sex with their husbands.

 Congestion in the Camp
A key factor influencing promiscuous behavior was reported to be the congestion of the
camp and within individual living quarters. In any given household, all family or
household members huddle in one little roughly constructed hut ­ men, women,
children, youth, etc. Men informed the research team that they have to wait for the
children to sleep before they can engage in sex with their wives. However, this was
disputed by the women who asserted that in the first instance men come home drunk
and regardless of who is in the room, they demand sex. As such, children see sex and
also go on to practice it themselves, thinking it is acceptable.

 Food Insecurity
The asylum seekers were extremely poor, living in cramped and poorly constructed
huts, with no water, sanitation or health services, and with no source of livelihood or
income. Food insecurity was the greatest problem that respondents most vividly
expressed to the research team. Food was not provided as in the refugee camps and
the asylum seekers had no access to land on which to cultivate.

Therefore, on a daily basis, both men and women trek for long distances to neighboring
villages to beg for food in exchange for their labor. One woman pointed out that the
return journey could be as long as 30 or 40 kilometers, and often such journeys started
as early as 4.00 am in the morning.

Because the Kibaati asylum seekers are desperate for anything that can be given to
them, they revealed that they were often exploited financially and sexually, in the case
of women. Men worked very long hours in the gardens of host populations in return for
a few fingers of bananas or other foodstuffs. Sometimes they missed getting food
altogether. Women, on the other hand, often had to give in to sexual demands in
addition to providing labor for them to be able to obtain a reasonable amount of food to
bring home.

Refugees in the camps were reported by women asylum seekers to provide a source of
food for them occasionally. In some cases, food was provided to friends in Kibaati,
while in other cases asylum seeker women bartered food for work or sex.

 Powerlessness and Culture of Silence
Asylum seeking women and men assert that the lack of legal status combined with the
actual and perceived discrimination against them described above (Section 4.1.3) has
resulted in lack of peace of mind and an inability to plan for the future. Many people in
Kibaati Camp, said that they had resigned themselves to fate and were only waiting for
a disaster to happen to take their lives. These feelings of hopelessness influenced
behavior such as consumption of the potent alcohol brewed in the camp, and casual
and multiple sexual liaisons "for pleasure" and to "kill the boredom".



                                          104
                                                                                   UGANDA Country Report


This feeling of powerlessness to influence their lives is reflected in the revelation by
Kibaati men who knew that their wives had engaged in a sexual act to gain food,
however kept it to themselves because they knew that the most important thing for the
family was to have food to eat. They felt powerless to confront men in the host
community, as food for the family survival was paramount. This was described as
men's culture of silence.

Instances were reported, also, where asylum seeking women simply disappear into the
host population in search of better livelihood, never to return to the camp. This is
accomplished by the women seeking suitors from men in the host population and
getting married there.

 Family Separation
The asylum seekers in Kibaati have gone through multiple countries before they arrived
in Uganda which was reported to be a factor influencing HIV transmission. Most of the
asylum seekers who were interviewed had lived in at least four different places since
fleeing Rwanda, and before arriving in Kibaati. During such movements, family
separations occurred, leading some adults to find other partners. Both men and women
pointed out that in the initial days, soon after settling in Kibaati, each person thought
that the new relationships they were starting was going to be temporary and they
looked forward to reuniting with their spouses. As a consequence, such relationships
were not taken seriously in the first instance and it was normal for one person to have
more than one relationship at one time.


            SUMMARY ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV
                  TRANSMISSION FOR ASYLUM SEEKERS
Contrary to the situation with encamped refugees, one of the most prominent factors
that seem to affect transmission of HIV among asylum seekers is the lack of
awareness and knowledge about HIV/AIDS infection and prevention, coupled with the
desperate search for food for survival. This lack of consciousness about HIV/AIDS is
due to an absence of information on HIV/AIDS, made worse by a lack of health and
prevention services in the asylum seekers camp. As a consequence, sexual behavior
with more than one partner and without condoms is quite common.

Another key factor that predisposes asylum seekers, especially women, to greater risk
of HIV infection is food insecurity and the desperate daily search for food. This group
receives no assistance from the Ugandan government, UN agencies or NGOs119
because these asylum seekers are not organized by UNHCR (hence cannot benefit
from food assistance given to refugees), nor by the government, who do not have a
policy on asylum seekers. Neither do the Rwandans in Kibaati Camp have access to
land to cultivate. As a result they depend heavily on either the host population or on
officially organized refugees in order to obtain food. Women seeking food for work
often had to provide sex in addition to work, and rape en route to food collection or
other destinations, such as water collection and visiting the health centre, was a
constant danger.

Underlying all the above factors influencing HIV transmission is the overarching
problem of lack of a legal status for the Rwandan asylum seekers living in Kibaati
Camp. Without an internationally defined legal status, asylum seekers cannot be
reached tended by either governmental or UNHCR programs. As a consequence, they
live a very powerless and poverty-stricken life ­ a life in which they are neither able to
demand their rights to be recognized, nor to engage in productive work. The ensuing

119
      Except for a few sporadic drops of deliveries made by the Uganda Red Cross

                                                    105
Social and Gender Assessment


despondency and idleness leads to drunkenness and to irresponsible sexual behavior.
This is a potent recipe for easy transmission of HIV.




                                        106
                                                                                  UGANDA Country Report



             CHAPTER 7: INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE IN UGANDA

Several districts in northern Uganda, including Gulu District in which this study took
place have been affected by an 18 year old insurgency caused by the incursion of the
Lords Resistance Army (LRA) rebels. During this period, over 85 percent of the
population of Gulu District has been displaced and now live in IDP camps. The
displaced population in the Gulu District is increasing and has risen by 29% from
340,000 persons in July 2003 to 437,695 people (210,043 male and 228,635 female) in
May 2004.

In Gulu District, IDPs live in confined gazetted or un-gazetted camps; or they commute
from the camps at night into Gulu town or into safer camps each night. Awer IDP Camp
in Gulu District was assessed to represent the situation of IDPs in northern Uganda.
There is no host population with which to compare encamped IDPs in Gulu District.


                                         AWER IDP CAMP
 Camp Features
Awer Camp lies in Gulu District120 of Northern Uganda.. Awer IDP Camp, one of the 33
designated camps, is situated 23km along Gulu-Juba highway to the north west of
Gulu town, in Kilak County, Lamogi sub-County. The Camp was established in October
1996 as a result of persistent insecurity121 in the surrounding countryside.

The camp has a population of 18,543 IDPs122, the majority of whom are from the 8
surrounding parishes of Lamogi, Pagak, Olwal, Parabong, Gira-Gira, Otici, Kaladima
and Keyo-lacor or from neighboring sub-counties of Bungatira, Alero, and Pabbo.

Awer Camp has a government funded health unit within the camp, which serves the
Lamogi catchment population of 50,000 people within a 20 km radius from Pagak
(17,000), Keyo (7,000) and Awer (26,000) Camps. With a staff of seven, the health unit
is incapable of managing the needs of the large number of IDPs in its catchment area.
The health unit receives drugs from the National Medical Stores under the Primary
Health Care Fund and from NGOs ­ World Vision, CPAR123, Care and AVSI124 - on an
irregular basis depending on security along the road to the camp. Severe cases are
sent to Lacor Hospital in Gulu town, although many people are unable to attend the
hospital because transport is limited and the road is insecure.

The camp is also served by other organizations and agencies that provide both food
and non-food items, i.e., WFP, The AIDS Support Organization (Uganda) (TASO),
Action against Hunger, Save the Children, Denmark; African Medical Research
Foundation (AMREF), Family Planning International with regards to HIV/AIDS.
However, in actual fact, the camp receives minimal services for the health unit from
these NGOs ­ TASO and the Family Planning Association ­ and the government
medical stores due insecurity and fear of rebel attacks outside of Gulu town. In
addition, during periods of high rebel activity in the camp vicinity, both food and non-
food supplies also stop, as was the case when the research team visited in June 2004.


120                                2
    The district is large (11,560 km ), and borders Sudan to the North, Lira and Apac Districts to the South,
Pader and Kitgum Districts to the East, and the West Nile District to the West. Gulu District has combined
population of 479,496 inhabitants, (236,434 male and 243,062 female) - Uganda Bureau of Statistics,
2002.
121
    Bombings, hackings, killings, burning of huts, hijacking vehicles, rape and other crimes
122
    WFP, 2004
123
    CPAR is a Canadian NGO
124
    AVSI is the Italian Volunteer Organisation

                                                    107
Social and Gender Assessment


An army detachment from Gulu is stationed on the outskirts of Awer Camp with the
mission of protecting the IDPs. The soldiers share the water source in the camp and
buy goods from the camp market. In actual fact, the researcher observed that the
soldiers are integrated into the camp community.

 HIV and AIDS
According to reports from the STI/AIDS Control Program (MoH 2003), Gulu District has
the highest HIV prevalence of any district in Uganda among ante-natal clinic (ANC)
attendees. The women attending the ANC clinic in Lacor Hospital (the major hospital in
the district)125 had a prevalence of HIV of 11.9 percent in 2003126. Much higher,
however, is the prevalence of HIV in patients admitted to the hospital, with 46% of all
inpatients testing HIV-positive in 2002127. HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis are consistently
the leading cause of death of inpatients in all the age groups between 15 and 54 years,
with peak mortality in the 35-44 year age128.

HIV prevalence is similar in males and females with a peak prevalence in persons over
30 years of age. The sero-prevalence is higher in people engaged in monogamous
relationships than those in polygamous relationships. Also housewives had a higher
HIV prevalence than all other occupation categories (See Table 5). This could indicate
that men engage in high risk sexual behavior outside the marriage and then infect their
wives ­ as has been reported for many years in other areas of Uganda.

Table 7         HIV Prevalence Among Patients Accepting VCT at Lacor Hospital
Population characteristics                      HIV Prevalence (percent)
                                            Out-patients         In-patients
Sex
        Male                                    23.2                 56.6
        Female                                  26.4                 54.8
Age group
        Less than 20 years                      11.3                 35.9
        20-24 years                             14.5                 47.8
        25-29 years                             24.5                 60.4
        30-34 years                             37.0                 69.4
        35 years and over                       37.1                 59.2
Residence
        Gulu Municipality                       24.1                 58.7
        Gulu Rural                              24.3                 49.5
        Other districts                         34.4                 63.0
Marital status
        Single                                  11.7                 43.9
        Widowed/Divorced                        40.9                 65.2
        Married monogamous                      26.6                 58.3
        Married polygamous                      23.0                 53.7
Occupation
        Manager/Professional/Clerk              29.5                 54.5
        Business                                n.a.                 n.a.
        Agriculture-elementary                  28.3                 54.1

125
    The catchment area of Lacor Hospital is larger than Gulu district, as many patients come from
neighbouring districts.
126
    This figure is considered a good indicator of the prevalence of the infection in the general population in
Gulu District.
127
    Sero-surveys performed in Lacor Hospital in 1994, 1997, 1999 and 2002. Over the 8 years of the
survey, HIV prevalence in the General Ward has decreased from 74% in 1994 to 44% in 2002; and has
increased from 58% in the TB Ward in 1994 to 69% in 2002.
128
    18.7 of deaths attributed to AIDS and 17.9 percent of deaths due to tuberculosis

                                                     108
                                                                                  UGANDA Country Report


      Housewife                                    19.2                                     63.2
      Other
Source: Lacor Hospital Records, 2003; n.a. = not available

According to the medical officer in-charge of the health unit in Awer Camp, HIV
prevalence in the 3 IDP camps in the catchment is high, as indicated by the large
number of persons being treated for AIDS-related opportunistic infections129. The staff
at Awer Health Unit reported a high incidence of syndromic sexually transmitted
infection.

HIV/AIDS awareness programs, operated by NGOs from Gulu town, are in existence in
the camps but insecurity along the route to the camp causes these programs to
operate intermittently. HIV awareness is neither consistently given nor are the
programs supported for IDPs to continue when NGO workers cannot access the camp.

The Health Unit in Awer Camp is well stocked with drugs, including STI drugs and
those for treating opportunistic infections. The seven staff are well-trained but are too
few to handle the high caseload of the catchment area. Condoms are available.


      FINDINGS ­ FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV TRANSMISSION IN IDP
                           POPULATIONS
The factors revealed in consultation with the IDPs in Awer Camp, with NGOs, service
providers, army officers, and local government officials both in the camp and in Gulu
town have been clustered into the following categories for ease of presentation.

 Awareness and Knowledge of HIV/AID, and Attitudes
Overall, the level of awareness about HIV and AIDS was good in Awer Camp as most
respondents of all ages and both sexes knew the causes of AIDS and mode of HIV
transmission, ways for preventing infection, and the consequence of HIV infection
being death. However, this knowledge was not usually translated into risk minimizing
action. Sexual activity with multiple partners, prostitution, and sex bartering occur with
very little use of condoms.

A very strong feeling of despondency, hopelessness and helplessness permeated the
camp, which is the result of many years of living in a camp under poor conditions,
constant fear of rebel attach, loss of their home and assets, and seeing no hope for the
future. Most adults participating in the consultations in Awer Camp stated that they felt
"doomed". Such attitudes were attributed to the high level of promiscuity and high risk
sexual conduct. Some IDPS expressed that the situation of displacement and
encampment could not get any worse than it already was and so death was a blessing
­ however that death presents. One woman, who had 2 daughters abducted by rebels,
had seen her husband murdered and had been violently raped herself, asked : "What
other type of death could you offer me?" ­ implying that she had already experienced
death, so could not be scared by HIV and AIDS.

Within the camp, some people were reported to have sex with multiple partners
knowing that they are infected with HIV130. Another reason for HIV+ men and women
continuing unprotected sex was the belief that most of the IDPs in the camp were
already infected with HIV, and that those who remained uninfected should be
segregated for their own protection. Another belief in the camp was that the Ugandan

129
    Herpes zoster simplex, genital herpes, genital ulcers, cough (chronic bronchitis), pneumonia, on and off
malaria symptoms, and persistent fever and diarrhea
130
    A case was reported of a single father deliberately having sex with his children so that they would not
be left without a father when he died.

                                                    109
Social and Gender Assessment


government was deliberately fuelling the insurgency because they wanted to wipe out
the Acholi people131. Some believe that the soldiers in the detachment are all HIV-
positive and they have been sent to deliberately infect the IDPs with the HIV virus in
order to kill them all.

The low condom use was made worse by the limited availability in the camp. Even
though condoms were available from the health unit within the camp, only male youth
accessed them. Married men and women were ashamed to ask for condoms from
health unit staff. Even the male youth who had access to condoms did not believe in
their efficacy. Cases were reported where girls use certain incorrect "lubricants" on
condoms leading to the tearing of condoms. Some girls feared that condoms could get
stuck in their vaginas, and hence decided that it was better not to use them at all.

 High Risk Sexual Activities
A considerable amount of high risk promiscuous behavior was reported in the IDP
camps. This took place within households; between IDP men and adolescent or adult
women; between soldiers, traders, NGO workers and IDP young women; between
better-off IDP men and women; between soldiers and IDP men and commercial sex
workers; and amongst adolescents.

Several reasons were advanced to explain the high level of high risk sexual behavior -
idleness and drunkenness; sex as entertainment; and adventure for male youth that
may extend to gang-raped of women and girls. Infidelity among couples was
pronounced, and the majority of IDP women reported that most men in the camp have
more than one mistress as well as a wife.

There are also a group of young women and adolescents referred to as "camp-
followers", who were reported to follow soldiers to whichever camp the soldiers were
posted. These female youth follow soldiers providing sex in return for food, personal
items, trinkets, money, and protection from rebels. Relationships between these female
youth and soldiers were reported to be of a short-term nature and hence these girls
and the soldiers tended to have multiple sexual partners. The same girls were also said
to have sexual relations with other IDPs in return for personal gain. In the majority of
cases, where sexual intercourse was involved, no condoms were reported to have
been used or if condoms were used they were used improperly and inconsistently.

Prostitution and sex bartering was also reported to exist in the camp. Many female IDP
prostitutes frequented bars in the camps at night. Clients included IDP men, soldiers
and traders. Sex bartering in return for money, food, alcohol, or personal items occurs
between adolescent girls and women and these groups of men, teachers, civil servants
and NGO officials. Traders who bring goods for sale to camp were reported to be the
main perpetrators of this practice.

 Health Services
The health unit in the camp is well supplied with STI drugs to treat the many cases of
syndromic STIs. The high prevalence of untreated and untraced STIs is an indicator of
a high level of unprotected sex within the camps. Health unit staff stated that most
IDPS do not report for diagnosis and treatment. Men do not attend the health unit as
they tend to be involved with multiple partners and they do not want information to "leak
out" that they may be having an STI (which may lead to loss of some partners); as well
as felling a sense of embarrassment reporting an STI. Women did not report for STI
treatment and tracing because they feared that others would know they had a STI,
which would undermine their sexual value to engage in sex for gain; and a fear that

131
      From history the Acholi have been persecuted for example by Presidents Amin and Obote

                                                   110
                                                                    UGANDA Country Report


they will be referred to Lacor District Hospital in Gulu town, 23 km away. Not only is the
route to Gulu unsafe and the cost of local transport is prohibitive, but women would
have to leave their children unprotected in the camp. Children are a prime target for
kidnap by the LRA rebels ­ boys for soldiers and girls as "wives" for commanders. Also
girl children may be raped by IDPs within the camp. In the judgment of such women,
the opportunity cost of traveling 23 km is higher than that of staying at home with
untreated STIs.

As mentioned above, condoms are available in the health unit. HIV/AIDS awareness
programs operate in theory but are intermittent because NGO workers will only travel to
the camp when the route is secure.

Although there is an officer in the detachment trained and assigned as an HIV/AIDS
education officer, the said officer, when interviewed, appeared to have only a
rudimentary knowledge about HIV/AIDS programming and activities. Not surprising,
therefore, he did not conduct education for soldiers on HIV, and although he had stocks
of condom for distribution, he had distributed very few.

 Insecurity
Insecurity was a key finding that is closely related to the transmission of HIV in Awer
IDP Camp, in particular, and in Gulu District, in general. This insecurity has lead to
displacement of the majority of the population of the district into camps, restriction of
movement of the population, deaths, abductions, extreme sexual and physical violence
against the population, and widespread fear. The abduction of children and women by
the LRA in northern Uganda has been devastating to the social fabric of the Gulu
District. These children are not only forced to commit atrocities against their own
people but are also acculturated to treat rape and public sex as normal occurrences
that one can do at any time and even in the full glare of all other people. Focus group
discussions and NGO key informant interviews in Gulu town revealed that even after
being rescued many former abductees still practice a number of these activities. Rape
of IDP girls seeking refuge on shop verandas in Gulu town at night was said to be a
common experience, with the girls cries piercing the night silence.

Insecurity, it was further revealed, had brought about night-commuting ­ the practice
where every evening children and adolescents (from 3-20 years) travel to the centre of
the camp ­ where it is presumed that there is greater security than on the fringes of the
camp ­ to sleep for the night, fearing attacks in the night and abduction by rebels. The
usual tendency is for parents to send their children to the more secure central areas.
Special huts have been constructed. However, along the way to the central huts from
home there is no parental control. During this routine trip some older "unruly" children
simply wander off and lure their friends into sex. It was also reported that drunken adult
men were known to waylay the girls making their way to the safe houses, forcing them
to have sex. Also, due to the difficulty of finding proper sleeping space, some older
boys always made it a habit to go early to the safe places and "book spaces" which
they would then give out later to girls in return for sexual favors. Night commuting was
also reported to be taken advantage of by some soldiers, who sometimes pretended to
offer assistance to young girls but later tricked them into sex.

In this complex situation of insecurity, the army was reported to be much involved in
unprotected sex in the IDP camps ­ with prostitutes, casual partners, permanent
partners, adolescent girls and women who barter sex. Women also reported many
cases in which Ugandan soldiers raped IDP women when they ventured outside the
camps. A case was reported to the researcher, which is pending in the Human Rights
Commission, in which two girls 12 and 15 years old were raped by soldiers near the
camp. Over half of the soldiers of the detachment bordering Awer Camp had taken
temporary wives and some had houses within the camps. However, when the

                                           111
Social and Gender Assessment


detachments were transferred these "wives" were left behind, and soon took other
partners, whether they were infected by HIV or STIs or not.

 Congestion in the Camp Environment and Restriction of Movement
The camp environment is one of the major factors influencing the transmission of HIV
among IDPs. This environment is characterized by congestion, poor sanitation, lack of
privacy and restricted movement for fear of rebel attack. Two issues are key-
congestion leading to sexual acts; restriction of movement and lack of space in the
camp to grow food and gain a livelihood.

The limited space in which IDPs operate means that grown-up children share crowded
accommodation with their parents or other adult relatives. The traditional practice of
establishing new huts for bigger boys as was common in Acholi culture before
displacement is no longer feasible. As a consequence, grown-up children see their
parents and other household members having sex, so they too practice it. Female and
male youth said they feel sex is permissible if their parents can do it so openly. This is
certainly against social norms that had operated in Acholi villages before displacement.

It was also reported that due to the close proximity of huts, men outside the household
see their neighbors wives or daughters bathing. Men said that this raised their sexual
desires. As a result, many people were reported (by male youth, adult women and
men) to be developing un-social and previously culturally unacceptable behavior, such
as incest, adultery and rape within households or in their immediate neighborhoods.
Close proximity of households was also blamed for the heightening the desires of some
women to own particular things ­ coveting neighbors possessions. Both adult men and
women reported that if a neighbor was seen by a woman to have goods that she did
not have, her strong desire or yearning to acquire the same things could lead her
engage in sex with a man who promised to deliver these goods, if her husband could or
would not provide these items.

Lack of space in the camps and restrictions on movement prohibits cultivation of food
cops and cultivation to earn a livelihood. No space for gardens exists within the camp
confines. The gardens beyond the confines of the camp are considered to be unsafe.
So few people ventured outside the camp to cultivate or to look for food. Women
reported that if they or their daughters did go out to tend gardens or search for food,
they were in danger of rape by soldiers stationed nearby, gangs of adventurous youth,
or rape, kidnap or death by the rebels.

Thus nearly all survival had to be gained from within the confines of the camp.
Invariably many women were reported by all stakeholders to gain food and goods for
their family by engaging in sex in order to barter for adequate support for their families.
In addition, women, especially those with no husband, had resorted to prostitution in
the many bars operating in the camp confines at night.

 Idleness and Alcohol
As mentioned earlier, restriction on movement outside of the camp and lack of
livelihood opportunities meant that most people have nothing to do in the camp. As a
consequence, a large proportion of the male and female IDP population in the camp
was reported to be engaging in high levels of alcohol consumption, which was blamed
for the bulk of promiscuous and risky sexual behavior in the camp. Both men and
women reported that when they were drunk their judgment was impaired and they were
more likely to engage in sexual activities with partners other than their regular partner.
Men and male youth reported that at these times they did not use a condom as they
were unable to put it on their penises. Sex was also seen by a proportion of men,


                                           112
                                                                   UGANDA Country Report


young and old, and fewer women, often those who consume alcohol, to be a form of
entertainment, which relieves the boredom of the camp.

In addition to alcohol consumption, some youth were also reported to be taking drugs,
primarily marijuana, which camp leaders said often led them to carrying out such un-
social actions as rape and defilement within and outside the camp.

  Gatherings
In spite of the appalling situation in which IDPs live, ceremonies and other gatherings
that bring people together socially continue to take place, and were reported by the
IDPs to be another factor in the spread of HIV.

Funeral rites, traditionally reserved for mourning, had become events for entertainment
in the camp environment. They involved large amounts of alcoholic consumption
leading to drunkenness. These occasions, it was further reported are exploited for
sexual purposes by cheating husbands and wives, young people, people who simply
want "to have a good time", as well as soldiers.

Daily markets and monthly auctions were the other type of gathering that brought
together large numbers of people at which much social interaction was reported to
happen. Markets in the camp are as much places for exchange of goods and services
as they are avenues for social interaction, drinking alcohol and, in late evenings,
engaging in sexual activities. Here men bought trinkets, sandals, scented soaps and
other little wares to woo girls into sexual relationships. Female youth were said by
adults in the camp to readily accept these "gifts".

For the youth, also, engagement in sports and games was yet another avenue to meet
youth of the opposite sex and subsequently for involvement in pre-marital sex, often
unprotected. Similarly, discos and "kimansulo" (strip-tease dances) were also said to
be popular in the camp. It was reported by male youth that a lot of unprotected sex was
practiced at these dances.

 Gender Disparities and HIV Transmission
Even though gender disparity is a part of Acholi culture, the camp situation seems to
have complicated gender relationships to the extent that it has negative implications on
the transmission of HIV.

First, men, particularly those over 40 years of age, reported that programs promoting
womens empowerment within the camp, caused disharmony in households to increase
because their women were "being disobedient" ­ "going against Acholi culture". In the
camp environment, where women do not have recourse to ordinary channels and
institutions of law, this makes women vulnerable to domestic violence, domestic rape,
break-up of marriages, and seeking of other male partners.

Early marriage was also reported to be on the increase in the camps. It was
encouraged by parents, first for them to at least shed off one other mouth to feed, but
also for parents to earn an income through cash and goods brought back to the
household by the girl from her new home. Some families were reported to encourage
their girls to befriend rich men (using sex) and to bring home food and other goodies. It
was also reported by camp leaders that boys, too, were encouraged by male members
of their families "to show maleness by getting girls, and having sex with them" ­ a
factor that was said to be contributing to promiscuity and HIV transmission.

On the other hand, cultural practices that subordinate women, such as wife inheritance
were also reported to still be in existence, although the prevalence of these practices

                                          113
Social and Gender Assessment


had decreased considerably in the past 10 years. For those who continued to practice
widow inheritance, it was reported that their main objective was not to support the
widow as stipulated by tradition but simply to have another "legal" sexual partner.

Another finding is that men perceive themselves as having a traditional role as provider
for the family and that their ability to fulfil this role had diminished as a result of
displacement and encampment. In traditional Acholi society, the husband played a key
role in ensuring household security, overall food security, household income and
acquiring more land for cultivation. In the camp, men had no opportunities for earning a
livelihood that could support the family, and the role of security has been taken over by
the Ugandan army. As a result, the burden on women for ensuring that the household
has food to eat and clothes to wear has increased, thereby rendering them more
vulnerable to sexual and other forms of exploitation. It was commonly known that in
order to meet their familiar obligations women (i) engage in sexual bartering for food,
money or other essentials with IDP men or soldiers; (ii) enter into a more stable
relationship with a man or a soldier in return for support; (iii) seek food outside the
camp and thereby run the risk of rape; (iv) engage in commercial sex work; and (v)
brew and sell alcohol. It is mainly unmarried older women who brew and sell beer in
bars and around peoples huts, which brings them into contact with drunken men and
demands for sexual favors.

It was also reported by camp officials and women themselves that there is a culture of
silence among women, brought about in part by the centuries old male domination, but
increasingly in the camp situation by the belief that if a woman challenged their
husband on any issue, he would simply "go and bring another wife".

 Gender-Based Sexual Violence
Rape, defilement and incest were the most common form of gender-based sexual
violence committed against the IDP women of Awer Camp. No condoms were used in
these situations. Most rape took place when women went out to look for food or
firewood outside the boundaries of the camp. The perpetrators of these rapes varied
from drunken youth, soldiers and rebels. Rape also occurred within the camp
boundaries, as mentioned above. Some rape was also reported to be taking place
within marriage, but this went mostly unreported as it was not considered to be a
serious matter traditionally.

Incest was reported, by a few women, to be on the increase within the camp. Drunken
male relatives were said to be the main perpetrators. Most respondents blamed the
increase in incest and defilement on the demise of Acholi traditional culture as the
predominant ethnic group in this camp, and the absence in the camp of strong cultural
institutions.

Wife-beating was also said by camp leaders and married women to be on the increase
in the camp. This was partly attributed to the psychological tensions that most people
were under in the camp, often associated with alcohol consumption. With increasing
domestic violence, it was further observed that marriages are no longer stable, hence
women routinely move away from a violent marriage.

A subject that was reported on in great detail by both men and women was that of rape
by rebels. Most respondents pointed out that rape was synonymous with rebel activity
and that all those people who were captured by rebels were either raped or made to
rape others "as a matter of course". Several cases were reported of girls in the camp
who had escaped from rebel captivity but had contracted HIV from rebel commanders.
Similarly, boys that participated in raids were also expected by their commanders to
rape women as part of their raid activities. A case was reported to the research team of


                                          114
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report


an abducted boy who was made to rape a grown-up woman that was already known to
be dying of AIDS. The boy was rescued from rebel captivity, but is HIV positive.

 Disintegration of Family and Socio-Cultural Structures
The majority of respondents consulted during this assessment decried the
disintegration of the traditional family, social structures and institutions, such as clans,
elders and traditional regulations, which used to regulate the social and behavioral
norms of community members in the Acholi society. When the IDPs moved into camps
they did not do so in the same family, sub-clan or clan units ­ there was a strange mix
of people hence there is little or no coordination within the clan system. Congestion and
insecurity mean that processes that used to happen, such as informal education
around the fireplace, no longer take place; and people are too pre-occupied with basic
survival hence there is little or no time left to dialogue with others on issues affecting
the entire community. Lastly, there is nothing that binds the clans together anymore ­
no clan meetings; no ceremonies.

A group of women, for example, lamented that girls no longer had the opportunity to
grow up in the traditions of their motherland, being carefully looked after by their
mothers, aunts, and grand parents. Men, on the other hand, complained about unruly
youth, particularly male youth, who had little or no respect for elders and who engaged
in reckless drinking, sexual activity, and even rape. Both men and women reported an
increase in cases of adultery, and the increasing trend to of promiscuous behavior ­
"something that they said had never been heard of before in Acholi society".

A group of female respondents asserted that bride price was no longer being paid by
the men who now claimed to be their husbands, and hence they (the women) felt that
they were at liberty to flirt with any man who "offered something for the day" since their
confessed husbands had not passed the traditional mark of paying bride price.


        SUMMARY ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV
         TRANSMISSION IN INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS
A combination of factors ­ trauma, displacement and encampment, loss of traditional
life and livelihoods, and dependency on external support for survival - emerged as key
factors influencing the transmission of HIV among IDPs in Awer IDP Camp. Underlying
all these factors is the un-ending insecurity caused by the rebellion of the LRA.

The insecurity results in limited access to productive resources and to instances of
forced sex. For example, in instances where individuals have tried to go out of the
camps to grow their own food, they have often met with torture, rape or even cruel
deaths. Gang rape by rebels, in particular, was commonly reported by women and was
a known cause of transmission of HIV. On the other hand, most women who stayed
behind in the camps are forced to give in to sexual advances by men who are able to
provide them with food or other goods.

Insecurity also results in intermittent and often difficult to manage community health
education programs. HIV awareness, therefore, is neither consistently given nor are
support programs carried out dependably.

A set of influencing factors that were common to those found among all 3 populations ­
IDPs, refugee and asylum seekers ­ is that of disintegration of family and socio-cultural
structures, and loss of traditional role of men as providers. Bearing in mind that the war
in Northern Uganda has lasted for a period of over 18 years now, it is perceivable that
a large proportion of the population, having been born and brought up in a camp
environment, do not have strong socio-cultural bonds and have missed out on a very

                                            115
Social and Gender Assessment


important part of parental upbringing, with the result that morality is crucially being
threatened. This is an environment in which HIV transmission thrives.




                                          116
                                                                   UGANDA Country Report



    CHAPTER 8: ANALYSIS OF FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV TRANSMISSION

In this chapter of the report, the findings for each of the study groups are analyzed and
compared between those - and, with the situation of Ugandans in neighboring host
communities. This analysis revealed the complexity of the factors influencing HIV
transmission not only within each of these populations but, between these populations
and host populations.

In all three populations, as well as in the host population studied, promiscuous sexual
behavior ­ multiple sexual partners outside a permanent relationship ­ without the use
of condoms was the direct practice that causes the spread of HIV. This behavior is
influenced by a number of factors, some of which drive the vulnerability of transmitting
HIV and, others which maintain this vulnerability. Some factors have manifested at the
societal or community level, others at the households level, while still others involve
individual knowledge, attitudes and practices.

In the researchers analysis, three factors drive the situation of vulnerability of in all
three population groups - IDPs, refugees and asylum seekers: (i) insecurity and
subsequent displacement and encampment; (ii) HIV/AIDS awareness, attitudes and
practices as well as shortfalls in HIV/AIDS programs and health services; and (iii)
traditional gender disparities, including womens culture of silence. In the case of
Rwandan refugees, the desire to repopulate was a factor influencing extra-marital and
multiple sexual relations. The remainder of this chapter elaborates on this analysis.

These factors are maintained by situations of interaction within the three displaced
populations and, them and host populations studied in the Social and Gender
Assessment (detailed in Annex 6). Typically, social venues for interaction within the
study populations and occasionally between them and the host population that may
lead to risky sexual practice include traditional ceremonies, all-night religious
gatherings, games and sports activities, market days, bars, dances, and health centre
visits. Economic interactions include foraging for food outside camps, markets and
places of petty trade, selling alcohol and transactional sex. Other interactions in the
IDP camp included contact with the nearby army detachment and, in both refugee and
IDP camps, relations with local government and NGO workers.


       INSECURITY AS THE KEY FACTOR DRIVING VULNERABILITY
In the three studied groups the key factor that drives the vulnerable situation in which
these populations live is insecurity ­ the LRA incursion in Northern Uganda and the
Hutu-Tutsi civil war in 1994 in Rwanda.

Insecurity in Rwanda and northern Uganda caused not only death, and physical and
psychological trauma amongst the study populations, but also caused these
populations to flee their homes. This displacement meant leaving valuable assets and
livelihoods; and loss of community, reduced social capital, and family separation. The
latter has resulted in changes in the society in the breakdown of family and social
institutions that govern social norms and behavior. This breakdown in traditional checks
and balances has reportedly been responsible for increasing infidelity, taking of
multiple partners, adolescent ignorance of parental guidance on sexual activity, and
"shameless, irresponsible" sexual behavior, most of which is conducted without use of
condoms.
The Rwandans and northern Ugandans when displaced moved into camps. This
encampment brought with it a further layer of structural factors that influence the
vulnerability of households to the spread of HIV/AIDS. This includes congestion,
restriction of movement, poverty and lack of livelihood opportunities, and loss of mens

                                          117
Social and Gender Assessment


traditional role as household providers. In order for households to provide for their
needs, men and women are forced to place themselves in positions of potential
financial and sexual exploitation.

The resultant individual behaviors are the direct portals for the transmission and
infection of HIV in these populations, and between them and host populations. Such
behavior includes idleness, feelings of hopelessness about the future, alcohol
consumption and drunkenness which lead to increased high risk sexual activity.
Womens increased burden to care for the family, leads them to engage in
transactional sex for gain of resources. Adolescents are engaging in sex as a form of
adventure.

The reasons for and results of this insecurity differ between these three study
populations, as discussed below. The host population in south-western Uganda, on
the other hand, while also vulnerable to HIV/AIDS has not had insecurity driving this
vulnerability. In the host community, idleness and alcohol consumption and poverty
drive high risk sexual activity. In IDP, asylum seeking and refugee populations, the lack
of livelihood opportunities drive women to sell or barter sex to supply resources for
mainly survival of their family and themselves. In the case of the host population most
women, while poor, are not driven to exchange sex for resources for the survival of
their families. The exception reported was poor single mothers with children. Most
women have many more livelihood opportunities, their movement is not restricted, and
their husbands still fulfill roles as providers.

 Displacement and Encampment
Displacement, as a result of insecurity, is a key driver of HIV transmission in refugee,
IDP and asylum seeking populations in Uganda, although aspects of displacement vary
between the three populations. Among the refugee populations of Oruchinga and
Nakivale Camps and the asylum seekers in Kibaati, displacement has meant large
scale cross-border migration of people in search of a safe haven. Displacement for
these refugees has resulted in lack of permanence, limited livelihood opportunities,
breakdown in social structures, and dependency on relief aid leading to redundancy of
mens role in the household as provider. On the other hand, displacement of IDPs in
Northern Uganda has been prolonged but they still live relatively close to their original
homes. Unfortunately, the IDPs are still threatened by rebel raids. In all three cases,
feelings of despondency, hopelessness, helplessness and powerlessness to influence
the future, as exemplified in Case Study 5, Annex 4.

This despondency and lack of
livelihood activities has resulted in     "Encampment has changed the culture of the
idleness, which has contributed to the    Acholi. A lot of alcohol is consumed and no
high levels of risky sexual activity,     respect is accorded by youth to elders as used
especially     associated    with  the    to be in the past. The youth become rowdy
impaired     judgment     caused    by    after taking large amounts of alcohol. One of
drunkenness, and the lack of societal     the common results of this type of behavior is
checks that would have occurred in        involvement in reckless sex, leading to HIV
their    traditional   societies­   as    infection." Focus Group of elderly men and
expressed by an Acholi elder in Awer
                                          women, Awer Camp, Gulu.
Camp- see textbox opposite.

 Feelings of Despondency and Powerlessness
Across the three populations studied (refugees, IDPs and asylum seekers) there is a
feeling of despondency and powerlessness. This is attributed to the lack of control by
the groups over their destiny. Among IDPs, for example, where many people have
helplessly witnessed violent death, HIV/AIDS is "just one of those things" that happen

                                          118
                                                                            UGANDA Country Report


and referring to it as a killer disease does not resonate with any chord that surpasses
the suffering such people have
                                            "Ours is a disaster just waiting to happen. We are being
witnessed. For most, worrying about
                                            discriminated against. The Rwandan Tutsi came here and
immediate survival is a lot more urgent     stayed for 30 years and they were given land and they stayed
than protecting themselves from HIV         for all those years. We have been here for up to 3 years now,
infection. This need to provide and         and we neither have food to eat nor land to grow crops.
survive for today is also apparent to a     Instead we are being threatened with repatriation to Rwanda."
large extent in the asylum seeking          Focus Group of men in Kibaati
population and, to a lesser extent, in
the       refugees.      Unsurprisingly,
therefore, many continue to engage in risky sexual behavior ­ women bartering sex for
food or other resources; and men and women, at least momentarily, engaging in sex to
forget their misery.

Among the asylum seekers, suspicion also was rife that they were being left
deliberately to perish in their poverty and misery because they were Rwandan Hutus,
as indicated in the textbox. This fuelled the attitude that HIV and AIDS were just
another factor that would lead to the demise of these people.

 Congestion
One of the features of encampment that contributes to high risk sexual activity
associated with the potential spread of HIV is congestion. Congestion within IDP,
refugee and asylum seeker camps has come about because many people are housed
in a small area in which huts are built on a limited piece of land. As children grow, and
new arrivals enter and natural increase takes place, more land is required, In the case
of refugees, the land gazetted by the government is limited, and Ugandans have
encroached on the allocated land. Among IDPs, the camp perimeter is limited by the
ability of the army to secure it. While congestion in
Kibaati among asylum seekers was even more               "You see your neighbors wife
pronounced ­ here people live in makeshift huts in       bathing and naked. She too may
unsanitary conditions. Congestion leads to lack of       be making suggestive signals to
privacy. Adolescent children see sex between             you. What else do you do but
adults in their cramped houses and mimic these           approach her for a relationship?"
acts with their peers. Men see the wives of              Man in Oruchinga
neighbors bathing and relationships ensue, as
exemplified in the textbox. In some refugee situations, women were reported to covet
the belongings of their neighbors wives, and if their husbands were unable to provide
these goods, they entered into sexual relationships to gain those goods. In Awer IDP
Camp, incest and rape within households was reported to be on the increase.

 Breakdown of Traditional Family and Social Structures
In IDP, asylum seekers and refugees assessed, displacement and encampment has
been a key factor in upsetting family and social structures. The loss of regulatory social
institutions, occasioned by the split of families and the loss of "the concept of society"
as perceived in homes of origin, was blamed for the failure to have in place appropriate
measures for combating serious social excesses such as drunkenness, multiple sex
partners, sex between neighbors, rape and defilement. In the case of the IDPS, this is
likely to have long-lasting impacts on the wider Acholi society and traditions.

 Lack of Legal Status for Asylum Seekers
Although there are similarities as mentioned above, displacement affects asylum
seekers in Kibaati in a slightly different way. The predominant feature among this
category of people with respect to displacement is the lack of recognition by the
Ugandan government and UNHCR, which results in these Rwandans having no rights,

                                                119
Social and Gender Assessment


receiving no assistance and in dire poverty. With no HIV/AIDS programs, no health
centre, and poor health status (hence impaired immunity), men, women, youth, elders
and leaders all confirmed that STIs were a major problem in the camp, further pointing
to the incidence of unprotected sex. This poverty was responsible for women seeking
food outside the camp and often having to give sex in addition to labor in return for
food. Overall, consciousness of HIV and AIDS is low, and sexual practices are risky.

 IDPs Fear Abduction
In northern Uganda, the fear of abduction from rebels as a result of the continuing
insecurity in the District has also contributed to HIV vulnerability. Abducted children
returning from the Lords Resistance Army recount the sexual abuse they encountered
and many are now HIV positive. Also young women and girls who night-commute to
safe places at night through fear of abduction during rebel raids are also vulnerable to
HIV transmission. They may be waylaid and raped en route or while in safe places by
local youth and drunken men in Gulu town, or IDP youth or soldiers in the camps.

 Poverty and Limited Livelihood Opportunities
Poverty emerges as an overarching factor influencing the spread of HIV in the refugee,
IDP and asylum seeker environments, underpinning the sexual risks that women take
to obtain needed resources. The poverty identified in this social and gender
assessment included both material and non-material dimensions. The principal
dimensions were the inadequate supply of basic essentials for the family, including
food; the limited livelihood opportunities through which to gain these essentials; the
loss of the traditional role of men as the providers in the household; and the feeling of
powerlessness to change the situation. The struggle to survive in this new environment
has meant that less than traditionally honorable ways are used by women, who use
their sex as a tool to gain needed resources for the family.

 Deterioration of Men's Traditional Gender Role in the Household
In all cases of encampment studied, mens self-perceived traditional gender role in the
household as the provider for the family has been undermined. In the case of IDPs and
refugees, agencies supply some of the basic needs for the family ­ this is a significant
part of the mans traditional role. In addition, he does not have the opportunities to earn
a livelihood to supplement the aid because opportunities are limited within and around
the camp (except for those old caseload refugees who have access to land around
Nakivale camp), and movement outside the camp is restricted due to government
regulations in the case of refugees and insecurity in the case of IDPs. A similar loss of
traditional role occurs in Kibaati asylum seekers camp, although it is not as marked
because, as no assistance is provided by agencies, both men and women must scour
the countryside for work for food. In this case, as in the IDP and refugee cases, women
have more opportunities to gain these much needed resources as they are able to
exchange sex for goods or money. It was disheartening in the asylum seekers camp,
to hear men state that they may know that their wives may be engaging in sex in return
for food, as quoted in the adjoining textbox. They stated that they are powerless to act
as they would under traditional circumstances in Rwanda because the family needs the
food for survival, and they have no power of recourse with the local host men.

 Household Food Insecurity
At the household level food insecurity is the dominant feature characterizing poverty for
the three study populations. However, vulnerability to food insecurity varies from one
population category to another. In refugee camps, although the UNHCR through her
partner, the Uganda Red Cross Society, provides basic essentials such as food,
shelter, very basic household utensils and basic social services, the supply of food is

                                           120
                                                                   UGANDA Country Report


insufficient. Among refugees, a ration that is equivalent to approximately 60 percent of
requirement is ordinarily provided. The expectation, which is founded on the need to
build self-sufficiency and sustainability among refugees, is that household members will
be able to contribute to their food requirement by growing their own food. While for
refugees who arrived prior to 1994 and who were allocated reasonable amounts of land
to grow their own food, this expectation is not completely unreasonable, for the majority
of other refugees, limited or no access to land means that they cannot meet the
shortfall in their food requirements though their own cultivation. In IDP camps, the
Ugandan Government and WFP provide food through partner NGOs and basic
services through government systems. Unfortunately, this food supply is intermittent
and also insufficient to meet basic daily nutritional requirements. But perhaps the most
depressing food insecurity situation is to be found among the asylum seekers in
Kibaati, as emphasized in the textbox. Because this category of people has no legal
status in Uganda,
assistance in terms      "As you can see (drawing attention of researcher) our children
of food or land for      are malnourished, and they are desperate for food. Sometimes
cultivation has not      you go out to look for food, both men and women, but come back
been provided to         empty handed and find children crying. You have nothing to give
them, making the         to them. What do you do?" Old Man from Kibaati
group            more
vulnerable and poverty-stricken. They must provide all essentials for living themselves.

Rwandan refugee and the asylum seeking adults, mostly women, go out into the host
communities to search for food in exchange for work (okushaka). Many of these
women are forced to provide sex in addition to work for food, or to bargain sex from
different or regular male members of the host community, thereby exposing them to the
dangers of contracting HIV. Some may get raped. A similar situation is faced by women
living in IDPs camps who face rebel insecurity or rape by soldiers or gangs of youth if
they venture out of the camp to tend their fields or search for firewood. They too are
preyed on by men as they go out to find food for their families.

 Limited Livelihood Opportunities
Restriction of movement outside camps for IDPs and a lesser extent for refugees,
coupled with the absence of reliable livelihood opportunities exacerbates the problem
of poverty and food insecurity. While some economic activities may be found in refugee
camps, very few are found in IDP camps, and almost no economic activity at all is to be
found among asylum seekers. Among the asylum seekers, some people walk up to 40
kms in a day to find work and/or food. Often some come back very tired and without
any food. This creates a feeling of helplessness and despondency for both men and
women, but for women it exacerbates their vulnerability to sexual exploitation by those
who have access to food or money. The challenge of vulnerability to sexual exploitation
is evident among women in all the three categories of the population mentioned above.

Poverty was also a key factor in the lives of the host community studied in Kajaho
village near Oruchinga Camp. Women also toiled for the survival of their family.
However, in the host community the population, including women, had access to
livelihood opportunities, their movement was not restricted, and their lives relatively
secure.

 The Poverty of Women
In refugee, IDP, asylum seeking and the host populations, women were reported by
women themselves, community leaders, and officials to suffer poverty
disproportionately to men as a result of their traditional roles and responsibilities and
their subordinate positions in society (See also Section 6.2 below). In all cases, women
are responsible for feeding the family and providing basic needs. In the situation of the

                                          121
Social and Gender Assessment


refugee and IDP camps, this is difficult, although not as difficult as the struggle in the
asylum seekers camp. Often under the circumstances in these camps, women had
more potential than men to gather essential resources as they could bargain sex with
host men, and better off displaced people in return for essential items for the
households survival. Commonly, the men that refugee, asylum seeking and internally
displaced women become involved in for transactional sex, include men from their
camp, camp committee members and traders. In south-western Uganda, the men from
the host population engage in sex with refugee and asylum seeking women. In the IDP
camps, like refugee camps, NGO workers and civil servants also engaged refugee and
IDP women for sex. And soldiers around the IDP camp, were one of the major
perpetrators, taking IDP women as mistresses, engaging in sex in and around bars at
night, raping women outside of the camp, and encouraging adolescent girls to follow
them (Camp-followers). In the cases of IDPs and refugees, not all of the women
engaged in transactional sex did so to provide for their families and their own basic
needs. Some young women engaged in sex in order to obtain trinkets or, for better
marks at school; while older women engaged in sex to obtain new clothes and shoes.

In the host community, women had more opportunities to gain essential resources for
their families - land was available for household gardens, other livelihood opportunities
existed, they are not exploited sexually like the refugee and asylum seeker women
when searching for food or work, and their husbands generally provided for the
household. The only cases given of transactional sex conducted by host women were
poor single mothers bartering sex for resources, and of commercial sex workers.

Womens poverty has different faces among refugees, asylum seekers and IDPs.
Women who are asylum seekers have been described as "cheap women" by the
Ankole men132 of the host community- a reference that is both disempowering and
demeaning. The reference to asylum seeking women as cheap labor and cheap wives
exhausts these populations self-confidence and supports their subservience in any
relationship that they may have with the host community, thereby increasing their
vulnerability to economic exploitation, sexual violence and consequently to HIV
transmission.

In refugee and IDP camps, on the other hand, one of the few livelihood activities
available to women is low-level petty trading133, which is dominated by male traders.
One livelihood activity that is thriving in all camps visited and in the host community is
the brewing and selling of local beer and spirits. As mentioned above, alcohol
consumption and drunkenness in men and women lead to increased sexual activity
and reduced use of condoms, attributed to "impaired judgment". The brewing and
selling of alcohol is mainly conducted by middle-aged women usually without
husbands, as a source of income, but this too brings risks. Widows who make local
brew in the IDP camps are often also expected to provide "regular customers" with
sexual services. But as observed elsewhere in this report, brewing simply perpetuates
the culture of drinking and subsequent high risk sexual behavior. Other options, such
as selling second-hand clothes are out of the question because they require more
financial capital to start (which most women do not have) and they involve traveling
long distances out of the camp, which is more risky for women than for men.



132
    This is because for an average Ankole man (the ethnicity of the region where the two camps of
Oruchinga and Nakivale are located), marriage normally involves the payment of bride price in the form of
cows, but asylum seeking women would just go with any man in the host population to escape the
desperate situation that they face in Kibaati. To Ankole men, these are cheap women, so even a poor
person can marry one.
133
    The exception to this is refugee communities that settled in the camps during the 1970s and 1980s,
and who obtained relatively larger plots of land on which to grow crops. Such refugees are involved in the
marketing of agricultural produce, especially beans, maize and groundnuts.

                                                   122
                                                                               UGANDA Country Report


As noted elsewhere, at the individual level women spend very long hours trekking and
looking for food, often in exchange for work or sex, or both. In Kibaati, asylum seeking
women may spend more than 12 hours in this search, which may be fruitless, and
many are malnourished and physically unwell134, as noted in the textbox.

This study revealed a large number of female-headed households in all displaced
population studies, which may in part have resulted from male mortality, men joining
rebel forces, or out-migration of men. These female-headed households were observed
to be more susceptible to economic deprivation, especially given that women continue
to fulfill the typical care giving responsibilities as well as other economic
responsibilities. Without access to resources, such women often turned to sex work, or
grant sexual favors in exchange for food, money, or other commodities.

Many refugee and IDP women also lamented the breakdown of social support
networks as this made their workload greater, their situation lonelier, and their personal
safety more fragile. Many observed that the institution of the family and community had
been so much destroyed by war, displacement and encampment that it was now no
longer possible to rely on social support of neighbors and clan. This loss of social
capital and loss of traditional checks and balances was blamed for the increase in
drunkenness, infidelity, and the increased number of rape and incest cases.


                                    GENDER DISPARITIES
The impact that HIV/AIDS is having on refugee, asylum seeking and internally
displaced women in Uganda is only beginning to be acknowledged. It is commonly
acknowledged that women are disproportionately at a higher risk of HIV infection than
men due to biological, socio-cultural and economic factors and that for such women,
unprotected sex is the main cause of HIV infection. However, there are other
dimensions that put refugee, asylum seeking and internally displaced situations at even
greater risk of contracting HIV than host women and men. An overarching reason for
women in the three population categories is poverty and powerlessness in "un-familiar"
economic, socio-cultural, political and physical environments. Four main factors seem
to drive the gender dynamic, namely: changes in gender roles and responsibilities,
sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV), early marriage, and sex exploitation related
to poverty in the above section.

Elsewhere in our analysis we have examined issues related to sexual exploitation and
transactional sex as a survival livelihood strategy. We have also discussed the position
that women play in promiscuity. In this chapter we shall focus attention on SGBV,
changes in gender roles, and early marriage.

 Sexual and Gender Based Violence
By far the most serious personal challenge facing women in all three populations
studied is perhaps that of SGBV. However, although the phenomenon is one of the
gravest affronts to the health and dignity of women in conflict areas, as well as in
refugee and asylum seeking populations, its full scale remains unknown. In part, this
lack of knowledge and understanding may be attributed to the complexity of the
phenomenon itself and its intricate link to poverty, power, gender roles, displacement
and all the other factors impacting on mobile populations livelihoods. But it is also due
to the serious under-reporting of cases of SGBV, particularly rape.



134
   It was reported by the Chairman of Kibaati that many people in the camp were afflicted with STDs, but
that because people had to forage for food, they did not find any time to go to the Health Centre in
Nakivale.

                                                  123
Social and Gender Assessment


In both refugee populations and in IDP camps, rape and defilement occur, particularly
and increasingly in IDP camps, but that these cases are grossly under-reported. The
reasons for non-reporting vary from one situation to another. Among refugees, the
victims of rape fear repercussions - they could be falsely accused by their spouses of
having had an affair with the perpetrators in the first place, which may attract "punitive
measures" from the man, including wife battering. On the other hand among IDPs, in
instances where a "responsible" family member may be involved, the matter is often
quickly swept under the carpet ­ it is not discussed as it is always important "to
preserve the integrity of the man". As a result affected girls within households quietly
suffer in this relationship and if the perpetrator of the crime is HIV positive, she too
becomes infected. Younger women in Oruchinga and Nakivale however recounted
several instances of men coming home late and very drunk and simply demanding to
have sex even though "some of them are suspected of having affairs with prostitutes
who are infected with HIV in the places where they drink from". Young women also
observed that male macho and power relations play an important part, pointing out that
in a refugee situation where one has little or no power, "reporting a man to authorities
may simply complicate your life in refuge". Asked one woman: "what are you going to
do if a man you accused only a few days ago accosted you and you know that he has
so much power?" This culture of silence is aggravated by the perception among both
men and women that "after all a man can always bring another wife if he feels
dissatisfied with the one he has"135. Thus the negative consequences of reporting
sexual violence could include stigmatization, ostracism, or even further attacks.

Rape takes place in many different places, but in the majority of cases it happens when
women go to forage for food, or go to fetch water or look for firewood. In Nakivale
Camp, it was reported that Somali elders had stopped their young women from tending
goats as some of them had previously been raped by unknown people. Similarly,
Congolese women in the same camp had stopped moving around alone as this made
them vulnerable to being raped.

The main perpetrators of rape are men in uniform (including the army, militia and rebels
in the case of IDPs), rowdy and drunken youth, as well as adults who consume large
amounts of alcohol. Men from the host population were accused by refugee and
asylum seeking women of raping women with impunity, although refugee men were
also mentioned among the culprits. Marital rape was reported to be quite common in all
instances and was usually linked to alcohol consumption, idleness and a feeling of
hopelessness. But in Kibaati (among asylum seekers) opinion was divided regarding
the concept of marital rape, as recognized by the quote from one elderly woman:

Physical domestic violence was reported by married women to occur frequently in both
refugee and IDP camps ­ See Case Study 2, Annex 5. In most instances this was
attributed to the inability of men to provide and a consequent feeling of frustration. The
promotion of womens rights in the camps, also clearly evident in host populations, was
also blamed by men for bringing "too many liberties for women" leading to "indiscipline
among women". As a result of wife-beating, many women simply leave and find other
partners, with whom they inevitably have unprotected sex, thus raising the risk of them
contracting HIV. Once the women have moved away from the man, new relationships
emerge between the man and other women. Domestic violence also occurred in the
host community, largely linked to arguments over financial matters, women taking
liberties, and as a result of alcohol consumption.

The instances of SGBV that have been recounted above have serious physical, social,
and psychological consequences. These consequences however vary with age,
previous sexual experience, gender, cultural background, etc. and require professional

135
   This was alluded to by men in Awer Camp when challenged about what they would do if their wife
confronted them about having unlawful carnal knowledge of another woman.

                                              124
                                                                              UGANDA Country Report


medical, legal and psychological care. Of central interest to this social and gender
assessment, sexual violence often leads to sexually transmitted and HIV infections. In
addition, all victims of SGBV experience intense self-disgust, powerlessness and
psychological trauma. They may feel paralyzed by terror, experience physical and
emotional pain and sometimes even experience depression, leading to mental
disorders. The end result of all this is, again, increased vulnerability to poverty and to
HIV infection.

 Changed Gender Roles
Women respondents in all camps and in the host community observed that the age-old
expectation that women will always ensure food availability in the household was still
very strong despite the hardships faced in the camps. However, they added, the
corresponding expectation that men would also play their role as overall providers (of
security, income and household
resources, including finding food      "In a refugee situation we are all incapacitated.
in times of shortage), had             Both men and women are married to UNHCR.
withered with the populations          UNHCR are the husbands who provide food, take
displacement. This means that in       care of our health, mediate conflicts, and even
addition to looking for food,
                                       provide education for our children. They are the
women also have to find all the
other     required      resources,     chief husbands, and the others (our men) are
including money for buying             there for honorary purposes. They cannot provide
clothes, paying for childrens          for their households ­ they simply go out and
school uniforms, etc. In order to      drink all day and then come home to meet their
meet this added responsibility,        conjugal duties if they are not too drunk to
many IDP, refugee and asylum           perform." Women Focus Group in Oruchinga
seeking women engaged in
casual sex in exchange for money, goods or services. But also, women began to see
men as "cocks that cannot crow" (womens group in Oruchinga). Many of the men
spent their days idle, drinking local brew in the bars, as exemplified in this textbox.

There was a perception among both men and women, certainly in the refugee camps,
that on account of the tilt in the balance of roles "women are now equal to men and can
therefore do anything that they wish, including going out with other men and engaging
in multiple or extra-marital sexual relationships either for survival or pleasure or
power"136. In both refugee and IDP camps, this problem was exacerbated by the fact
that in the majority of cases "no proper marriages" were taking place, as the usual
process of suiting, introductions and payment of dowry were not being followed. In
effect this renders a woman "unmarried" even if she has been co-habiting with a man
for several years. As such she is technically, if not traditionally, at liberty to go out with
any other man who she chooses. In Uganda and in Rwanda, not until dowry is paid
would a womans status as wife be established. Despite the tilting of gender roles,
power relations have remained unaltered. For example, in Oruchinga Camp, men
controlled the "ration card", an important document for obtaining foodstuffs.

 Beliefs and Socio-Cultural Practices that Subordinate Women
Certain socio-cultural practices subordinate women thereby increasing their
vulnerability to risky sexual behavior and hence HIV infection. While some of these
practices are commonly observed among host populations as well, the refugee, asylum
seeker and IDP context tends to aggravate their impact. Three practices may be
singled out, namely: widow inheritance, early marriage, and the "culture of silence". In


136
    The latter was cited in instances where women who are aggrieved by their husbands infidelity choose
to "punish" them by engaging in other affairs themselves.

                                                 125
Social and Gender Assessment


addition to these practices, the lack of information for women is also an important factor
in this nexus.

Traditionally, in the Acholi culture of the IDPs and the Ankole host community, it was
expected that on death of a brother, a man would inherit his sister-in-law in order to
provide social, economic, and emotional support. The changed context in IDP camps
now reveals that whereas for many women the need is for emotional support and that
such support may be obtained from being inherited, for men the motive is different. It is
just a licence to have sex with their sister-in-law, even if their late husband died "after a
long illness"137.

Rwandan, Somalis and Congolese girls are forced to marry early in order to fetch bride
wealth (linked to poverty) and "to prevent them from becoming spoilt." In Oruchinga
Camp, the research team was informed of girls being removed out of school in order to
be married off. Given the poverty context in the camps (described earlier) and given the
absence of normal social support mechanisms, however, most marriages do not last
for long and separation leads to acquisition of new partners. The pattern continues into
the mid 20s or 30s. This exposure to too many partners is a high risk factor in the
transmission of HIV. In Awer IDP Camp, step-mothers in particular use their step-
daughters to get men and money, but when such girls become sick [HIV/AIDS] they will
be the first ones to send them away from the home,

For boys it was observed that these too were encouraged to show "maleness" by
befriending girls and having sex with them. This early involvement in sexual activity
exposes them to STIs and HIV.

As already mentioned in the section on rape, in all three populations studied categories
women play a subservient role, being trained to keep silent about things happening in
their household and not to bring shame on the household. Among women who are
victims of rape, disclosure (that they had been raped) also brought down their market
value as they would not be able to get casual sex partners or men to give them money
in exchange for sex.


 HIV/AIDS AWARENESS, ATTITUDES, SEXUAL PRACTICES; PROGRAMS
                        AND SERVICES
Sexual behavior outside permanent unions, often with multiple or changing partners
and without the use of a condom, is an undercurrent in most economic and socio-
cultural interactions that are linked to HIV transmission among refugees, asylum
seekers and IDPs in Uganda. Sexual behavior in all cases of encamped population
studied, as well as in the host population was linked, in addition to the above factors, to
knowledge, attitudes and practices regarding HIV/AIDS and sex; as well as to the
services provided to prevent the spread of the virus and to care for those affected.

 Knowledge about HIV and AIDS
Significant variation exists between the different populations studied in terms of
awareness about HIV and AIDS. Overall, awareness about HIV and AIDS appeared to
be very high among refugee and IDP populations - the key modes of HIV transmission
and methods of prevention. This level of awareness is comparable to that which is
found among the host populations and is consistent with Ugandas long-running
awareness-raising program. However, this high level of awareness did not seem to
lead to consciousness about the gravity of the disease or even translate to positive
behavior change or safe practices. In the case of asylum seekers in Kibaati, knowledge

137
      This is a commonly used phrase to refer to people who are suspected to have died of AIDS.

                                                    126
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report


about HIV/AIDS was patchy and in some instances, poor because they are
underserved by conventional health support programs and, the frequent movement,
between countries meant that they could not benefit from any health education
program. Here some people knew a little about HIV transmission, others had
misconceptions, while others claimed that ".we have never seen it. How can you see
something that is in someone's blood?" In the asylum seeking population, these
misconceptions also increase the likelihood of HIV infection. Some men refused to visit
the health centre for fear of blood transfusion, which is the only way HIV is transmitted;
others thought that a man can only become infected with HIV if he has sex with an
infected prostitute, and some three people in the group even complained about the bad
quality of the water saying that if drank for a long time it would lead to someone
contracting "a certain type of AIDS".

In both IDP and asylum seeking populations, a feeling of the inevitability existed.
Asylum seekers felt that nothing can be done about the disease. IDPs felt that death
was inevitable anyway and that most people in Awer Camp were already infected with
HIV as a result of the rampant sexual activity ­ see adjoining textbox. In the latter case,
IDPs felt that there no point in trying to prevent infection. Fuelling this is the idea of
some IDPs, that the government has sent infected soldiers into their midst to kill them
of HIV/AIDS in order to wipe out the Acholi people.

Even where knowledge is good, many refugees, IDPs and host people still practice
risky sexual behavior. The failure, or refusal, to adhere to safe sex practices raises a
number of questions. Is knowledge and awareness being translated into conscious
decision-making? Are the messages that are being used to transmit knowledge to the
people inadequate? Are people receiving the right messages but simply choosing to
ignore them (or is the passion of love greater than the fear of death?). These questions
form the basis of our discussion in the following paragraphs.

 Sexual Behavior and Practices
The pattern of HIV transmission is closely linked to particular sexual behaviors and
practices among the three population categories. Overall, it may be concluded that the
sexual behaviors and practices in these populations are embedded in the socio-cultural
set up of the people. The three foremost issues meriting consideration here include
high risk socio-cultural practices, sexual activity and partner relations.

Subjectively, in order "degree of promiscuity", the IDP camp had the most activity
followed by the asylum seekers, then refugees and lastly the host population. Apart
from personal preferences and the poverty of women, reasons for this could be the
sense of hopelessness and doom expressed by the IDPs, the proximity of death by the
rebels, the feeling that nearly the entire camp and the neighboring soldiers are already
infected, and the lack of a continuous HIV/AIDS program, condom supply and active
STI tracing and education. In the case of the asylum seekers, high risk sexual practice
occurs, in addition to the desperate struggle for survival, because of the lack of
knowledge of the population about HIV and AIDS, combined with the lack of a
HIV/AIDS/STI program and health service, despondency and alcohol consumption to
forget their problems. In refugee situations, personal preferences, alcoholism and
limited means of obtaining a livelihood for women influence sexual practices. In the
host population, alcohol and personal preferences seem to drive promiscuity.




                                           127
Social and Gender Assessment


 Traditional Practices
Traditional practices such as the perversion of widow inheritance, polygamy without
responsibility and treatment for bareness rituals138 were reported to be fanning the
spread of HIV. In the IDP camp in Gulu the original cultural practice was said to have
been perverted by those who simply want to engage in sex. Among Rwandan refugees
in Oruchinga, also, participation in cultural functions, including funerals and weddings
increased promiscuity. Further, in all communities visited, it was confirmed that most
parents and other adults avoid talking to young people about sex, as the subject was
still a taboo. The only exception to this was in upper primary and secondary schools.

 Sexual Desire
                                          Considerable sexual activity was reported to exist in
  Sex irresistible?                       the three population categories. Women and men
  "God played a very bad trick on         engage in casual sex, both for pleasure and for gifts
  us. Woman was created with a            or money. Men in all situations reaffirmed that
  part of her body that is very           "abstinence was not an option for African men" and
  sweet. Even if you are afraid           the male view that sex is essential for men. A
  of disease, you cannot abandon          sentiment that captures the use of sex for pleasure
  eating good food." Consensus            but also the difficulty of regulating it or making it
  of mens focus group in Kibaati          safer is encapsulated in the following quote from the
                                          mens focus group in Kibaati Camp.

Both men and women in all populations studied, including the host population; agree
that it is mens natural desire to establish his masculinity and virility, which leads to
promiscuous behavior. Refugee men in Nakivale said that it was "expected" of them to
have sex with more than one partner as a measure of their "strength". For better-off
refugees having multiple relationships was also seen as a status symbol- "If you see
two women fighting for you, inwardly you feel proud that you are a ,,somebody also" (an
elderly man in Oruchinga Camp). Other men engage in sex with multiple partners for
the fun or curiosity of having sex with a person from another culture, as expressed in
this textbox.

Among asylum seekers in Kibaati, congestion was said to "bring sexual desire because
there is close proximity to one another". Similarly, in the refugee communities of
Nakivale and Oruchinga it was revealed that owing to congestion (discussed earlier)
children see sex and begin practicing it. Often such adolescents disappear from their
parents on certain pretexts or when sent on errands and instead engage in sex. In IDP
camps, adolescent girls leave family units early as they feel uncomfortable or
embarrassed to see their parents engage in sex. Often they will move in with friends in
another location where they may begin exploring sex without the peering eyes or
scrutiny of parents. Some begin seeking for small possessions: trinkets, shoes, etc.
Invariably during this process most adolescents "hit on" men with money and end in
having sexual relations with such men. Due to the power imbalances in most of these
relationships, younger women were reported to be in a weak position to negotiate safe
sexual practices. A common result was observed to be risky sexual behavior.

 Infidelity
In both refugee and IDP camps promiscuity is closely associated with prostitution, sex
bartering and infidelity among couples. On the part of most women the main driving
force was the lack of economic livelihood, but instances were reported in both refugee
and IDP camps where some women only wanted men to buy alcohol for them. In
return, such women offered sex. For men, infidelity is associated with sexual desire

138
    It was reported that some traditional healers lure barren women into sex claiming that the sexual act
itself is part of the treatment.

                                                  128
                                                                            UGANDA Country Report


and inability to abstain. Family separation during displacement also leads to men and
women in camps taking new partners. The above analysis reveals a complex link
between personal sexual preferences, including sexual desires between men and
women, infidelity and promiscuity on one hand, and environmental and poverty related
problems that affect refugees, asylum seekers and IDPs on the other hand. It should
be remembered that in all this, risky sexual behavior is involved and that women,
particularly young women, are the most affected. For them the risk of contracting HIV is
much too real.

 Idleness¸ Gatherings and Alcohol Consumption
In both refugee and IDP camps idleness was said to lead to increased alcohol
consumption which in turn led to much sexual activity. In all three situations, men,
including youth, used sex as a way to "kill
time"- as seen in the textbox. Alcohol is       "The youth have a lot of energy, but
mostly consumed by men, but a growing           they have no way of utilizing that
number of women, particularly in IDP            energy. So they wake up and start
camps, were noted to be involved as well.       playing cards or doing sports. However,
In both refugee and IDP camps drinking          you cannot do that for the whole day.
starts as early as 10.00 am in the morning.     As a result many youth decide to
For both men and women it was observed          engage sexual activities." Older men,
to lead to impaired judgment which, in turn     Awer IDP Camp, Gulu
led to risky sexual behavior. In such
situations condom use was minimal or improper. For women, instances were reported
where after becoming drunk they became victims of rape, particularly by male youth.
Domestic violence and marital rape were also reported as factors in the increase of
risky sexual behavior. Alcohol consumption was also noted in the host populations,
although the extent of drinking was not noticeably as high as in the camps.

In the IDP and refugee camps, social gatherings of all types are used as a form of
entertainment, whether for traditional ceremonies, all-night prayers (balokole139 in the
IDP camp and as far away as Mbarara ­ 65km from the refugee camps), at bars, or
dances (See Annex 6). During such occasions, the atmosphere is usually celebratory
and much alcohol consumption takes place. Many gatherings are held over-night.
While most of such gatherings are firmly rooted in the cultural traditions, the traditional
norms that previously regulated, controlled and supervised them no longer exist. The
net effect of this gap in all three instances is that the gatherings have been recklessly
abused and used as an opportunity to engage in promiscuous sex ­ see Case Study 7,
Annex 5.

 Knowledge, Availability and Use
 of Condoms                                     "If a man married you from your parents?, the very
In refugee, IDP and asylum seeking              least that he would expect you to do as a wife is to
camps and in host communities,                  have sex with him. You should be able to do that all
respondents knew about condoms,                 the time if you are not sick. That is the main
their role in preventing STI and HIV            objective of marriage in the first place. So I do not
transmission, and how to use them.              understand how a man can rape his wife. On the
However, personal pleasure, sexual              contrary (for me) if a man did not meet his conjugal
practices, and the pressures of day-to-
                                                obligations then I would report him to my aunt or
day living, despondency in men and
                                                the elders to answer. I would also be suspicious that
poverty in women, leave them little or
no choice, but to engage in sex                 may be he has another woman somewhere else."
without condoms.                                Elderly woman, Kibaati Asylum Seekers Camp


139
   These are "born again" Christians who sometimes hold night-long prayers as a way of "rededicating
themselves to God."

                                                129
Social and Gender Assessment



Condom availability varied considerably between IDP, refugee and asylum seeking
populations. Condoms are readily and freely available to refugees in the camps
through community health workers (CHW) ­ one serving every cluster of ten homes.
Condoms were available to the host community from kiosks in the village or free from
the Oruchinga Refugee Camp. In Awer IDP Camp, free condoms were sporadically
available from the health unit, when the road was secure enough to deliver supplies but
only male youth were brave enough to approach health unit staff and ask for condoms.
In Kibaati Camp, condoms were not available at all unless asylum seekers walked 7
km to the nearest health centre. Men, particularly under the age of 40 years, are the
ones who access condoms. Only in exceptional circumstances did women reveal that
they too go to obtain condoms (either male or female) for their use.

In refugee camps, although condoms were available and nearly all respondents knew
where to obtain them, usage was not high. Three problems were however pointed out
with regard to condom use. Firstly, condoms cannot be used with the type of sexual
intercourse that is preferred, especially by the Rwandan (the "kachabali" sexual
practice), although modifications using condoms were reported in youth. Secondly,
some men and women populations simply detested the idea of "playing sex" with a
condom, observing that it (the condom) was "un-natural "and did not give them "the
right sensation". Thirdly, health workers in Nakivale and Oruchinga Camps attributed
improper use of condoms to impaired judgment due to alcohol consumption.

In Kibaati Camp, in addition to the reasons given by refugees for not using condoms,
they were not available in the camp, misconceptions about transmission lulled people
into a false sense of security, survival over-ruled the long term threat of AIDS, and
women said that condom use in marriage was improper even if the man was known to
be having an extra-marital relationship (See Case Study 7, Annex 5). As above, in the
IDP situation in northern Uganda and in the host population in south-western Uganda,
these Ugandans did not use condoms because condoms reduced sexual pleasure and
were difficult to use when drunk. Older men in particular, generally reflected a dislike
for condoms, citing discomfort, insensitivity and the cumbersome nature of the process
leading up to the wearing of a condom. In the IDP camp, the belief that almost the
entire adult population of the camp was infected also reduced the perceived need for
condom use.

Although no actual figures were available, knowledge about condoms in refugee camps
was said to be better than in IDP, asylum seeking or even host populations. Similarly
condom use per sexual act appeared to be comparably higher for refugee populations
than for the other populations studied, particularly for asylum seekers. However, higher
use of condoms did not necessarily mean enhanced protection against HIV
transmission. Camp health workers in Awer IDP Camp believed that the increased use
of condoms in recent years, especially among youth, did not suggest that safe sex was
being practiced, as the likelihood was high that condoms were being improperly used.
Unfortunately, they further contended, the feeling that one was using a condom,
however it was used, seemed to give a false belief that the user could then engage in
promiscuous and risky sexual behavior. Similarly, they doubted the ability of most
users to make rational decisions about use of condoms "in the heat of the moment"
especially if alcohol was also involved.

Overall, in all categories of the populations studied the decision to use a condom rests
with a man. Women have little or no influence in deciding whether or not a condom will
be used. Similarly most women in refugee camps had heard about a female condom,
but most had never really seen one. In a meeting with Congolese women it was
believed the main route of HIV transmission was via rape, and that even if they knew
how to use a condom if accosted "rapists would not wait for them to put on their
condoms".

                                          130
                                                                                UGANDA Country Report




 Adequacy of Services
A very varied picture emerges with regard to provision of HIV/AIDS services to the
different populations studied in Uganda.

In both refugee and IDP camps, a wide range of health services are provided by the
government of Uganda, which are similar to the services provided to the host
population. The services range from preventive, outpatient curative, antenatal care, in-
patient services, and maternity services. No services at all exist in Kibaati asylum
seeker Camp and the nearest health centre is in Nakivale Camp.

Adequate HIV/AIDS programs operate in the refugee camps, which includes PMTCT
and VCT outreach programs. However, the VCT services are irregular, and even when
the testing teams come to the health centers, they are only able to handle a limited
number of tests ­ often less than half those waiting for testing140. The failure to attend
to all those who come to be tested was reported to be having negative impacts on
attendance. Procedures for registration, informed consent, data collection, pre- and
post-test counseling, general reproductive health examinations, and medical referrals
followed the AIDS Information Counsel (AIC) protocol for rapid testing. The services to
the health centre are supported by CHW and peer educators who distribute condoms
and raise awareness about HIV/AIDS and STIs.

The host population uses the same services as the refugee population, or alternatively
they use the small parish clinic at Mobona. The services available to the host
population other than at the centers in and around the refugee camps were reportedly
of poorer quality that those afforded to the refugees.

In Awer IDP Camp, HIV/AIDS programs are run by NGOs based in Gulu town, 23 km
away on an insecure road. Therefore, the provision of these programs is intermittent
depending on the road security from Gulu town. Only three CHW (traditional birth
attendants) have been trained as extension staff in the camp and condoms, when
available, are only accessible from the health unit. At the time of this assessment, there
were no condoms available in the health facility or any other outlet in the camp. HIV
testing is only available at Lacor District Hospital in Gulu town. Therefore, most IDPs
will only be tested if they are admitted to hospital. As a result, few IDPs know their HIV
status. Those that do know their status will not reveal it for fear of putting off potential
sexual partners. No HIV/AIDS programs exist in Kibaati Camp.

The prevalence of symptomatic cases of STI was reported by health workers to be high
in the IDP and refugee camps. Host populations did not report such high prevalence.
High STI prevalence is an indicator of high risk sexual activity and a cofactor in HIV
infection. In Kibaati, women reported vaginal problems, likely to be STIs and a number
of women respondents in the IDP camp also reported the widespread existence of
vaginal discharge and pain on urination. In these cases, the women did not report to
the health centre because of lack of money, shame, or "for fear of being referred to the
main hospital in Gulu". As a consequence such women were at a high risk of
contracting HIV while at the same time spreading STIs. Treatment of STIs is essential
in populations vulnerable to HIV infection and transmission.

The presence of the military near Awer IDP Camp in northern Uganda was reported by
the IDPs to be a major factor in the spread of HIV and STIs in the camp. The
knowledge of HIV/AIDS programs and activities of the health officer charged with
running the Armys HIV/AIDS program in the detachment seemed to be less than

140
  Health workers in Nakivale Health Centre reported that often over 80 people line up for testing once per
month and only 30 can be tested.

                                                   131
Social and Gender Assessment


adequate. He distributed few condoms to soldiers. This raised questions about the
appropriateness of the services and information that was being offered to military
personnel, especially given that they were at the same time identified as key players in
the transmission of HIV.




                                          132
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report



                             CHAPTER 9: CONCLUSIONS

The specific circumstances of refugees, IDPs and asylum seekers in Uganda have
important implications for HIV/AIDS programming. The problem of the spread of HIV in
the displaced populations studied is complex, as is the relationship between the factors
influencing the spread of HIV/AIDS. The factors are multi-dimensional, each factor
influencing and linking to another factor. Some factors, such as insecurity, gender
disparities and inadequacy of HIV/AIDS and related health programs and services are
factors that drive the vulnerability to HIV transmission and infection

In the three studied populations, high risk sexual behavior, in which multiple sexual
partners exist and condom use is low, is the mode of transmission of the virus. The
reasons for engaging in these high risk sexual practices varies but in all cases except
that of the asylum seekers, occurs despite a good basic knowledge about HIV/AIDS
and methods of preventing transmission. In the case of refugees, high risk sexual
activity continues even though condoms are readily available. The situation in the host
population is similar to that of the refugees; however, the degree of high risk sexual
behavior seemed less in the host population.

Awareness about HIV/AIDS and basic prevention knowledge seemed to be widespread
among refugee and IDP populations, but was low among asylum seekers. Despite this
awareness, the knowledge was not often put into practice. High risk sexual behavior
with multiple partners without the use of condoms prevailed in most groups, with male
refugee youth being the group most likely to access and use condoms. The extent of
this high-risk behavior astounded the researchers.

Also it appears that several levels of factors influencing the spread of HIV within, and to
and from refugee, asylum seeker and IDP populations exist. Firstly, concerns and
factors that affect individual behavior include congestion in camps and houses,
idleness particularly in men, drunkenness, domestic violence, and children imitating
adults sexual behavior. There are also factors that affect the behavior of individual
women and adolescent girls, and which lead to them transacting sex for necessities or
for personal gain that put them at risk of HIV infection or of transmitting the virus. Such
factors include the burden on women to provide for her family, limited opportunities for
financial gain to meet these obligations, vulnerability and exposure to transactional sex,
and the existence of men with the means to pay for such sex.

Secondly, the inability of refugee, IDP and asylum-seeker families and households to
control their own situations due to a lack of livelihood opportunities and poverty, makes
them reliant on others to supply the basic household necessities. In this context, the
immediate survival of family members leads these displaced people to regard HIV and
AIDS as distant threats. As a result refugees, IDPs and particularly asylum-seekers,
are susceptible to exploitation, financially and sexually, by those with more power, such
as members of the Camp Committees, employers, NGO and government workers,
security forces, and women by men. Ironically, as a consequence, refugees, IDPs and
asylum-seekers adopt short-term coping and survival strategies that involve sexual
activity that places them in danger of HIV infection. For women, transactional sex
becomes the only alternative for accessing the resources necessary for survival of
themselves and their families.

Layered over the top of the factors affecting individuals, and those of the households, is
the serious erosion of societal and family structures, in which traditional norms, checks
and balances that regulate sexual behavior, gender-based violence, drunkenness, and
parent-adolescent controls have disappeared or have been significantly altered as a
result of displacement, encampment and separation from their country and community
of origin. Marked changes in gender roles, in which mens traditional role of provider for
                                           133
Social and Gender Assessment


the family has been much reduced or lost, have lead to women placing themselves in
sexually vulnerable situations to gain resources for the survival of her family. This and
the loss of societal mechanisms restraining sexual behavior have laid fertile grounds
for the resultant promiscuous behavior.

The researchers postulate that in addition to the levels of personal, household and
structural factors outlined above, risky sexual behaviors still prevail despite adequate
knowledge because current approaches to HIV/AIDS prevention are inadequate. The
need for inclusive, holistic interventions that address driving and maintaining factors at
all levels in all studied groups in Uganda are explored in the following chapter.




                                           134
                                                                    UGANDA Country Report



                        CHAPTER 10: RECOMMENDATIONS

Below are recommendations from the findings of this Assessment that are . are
presented in two parts: (i) broad sets of recommendation focusing on four thematic
areas of the approach to HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs; and (ii) short-
term, medium-term and long-term recommendations specific to the different
populations assessed.

The recommendations are made in the knowledge factors influencing HIV and AIDS
are many and are complex. Therefore, interventions to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS
require a holistic approach, which is harmonized between levels, between
implementers and locations. Such approaches must address not only the high risk
sexual behavior leading to transmission of HIV, but also the root cause of this high risk
behavior ­ those factors driving and maintaining this behavior. Such factors include
insecurity; unequal distribution of, and contestation for, resources; poverty;
inadequacies in health care services; idleness and alcohol consumption; and
breakdown of societal structures. Gender disparities underlie all of these factors and
must be mainstreamed into all recommendations.

The researchers highlight the importance of designing interventions in the context of
longer-term outcomes for refugees and IDPs such as repatriation, return home, or full
integration of displaced populations into host populations. IDPs said that the only
solution to their current problems was to go home where they would be able to re-
establish their sense of "community", their livelihoods, and hence social support
networks and social checks and balances. Similarly, for refugees, repatriation would
reunite them with their families and help them to re-start their lives. On the other hand,
asylum seekers would need to have their legal status clarified and a swift decision
made to grant them refugee status, repatriate them, resettle them to a third country or
integrate them into the host population. Seriously reducing HIV transmission, which
stems from the consequences of displacement was said to depend on the
establishment of normality.


                           BROAD RECOMENDATIONS
In this Chapter, the researchers present recommendations formed from an analysis of
the findings from the field, feedback nationally and the current situation in Uganda.
Overall, social and gender assessment of HIV/AIDS in displaced people in Uganda
reveals the need to:
    1. Revisit current approaches to HIV/AIDS programming to address the structural
        factors that drive high-risk behavior;
    2. Revitalize standard approaches to prevention programs and approaches;
    3. Harmonize and coordinate approaches, stakeholders and levels of intervention;
    4. Put in place institutional mechanisms and resources to address the pandemic.

 Revisiting Current Approaches to HIV/AIDS Programming
Current approaches to HIV/AIDS programming are firmly defined within the prevention,
treatment and care model. This model is predicated on the belief that awareness about
HIV/AIDS will lead to behavior change ­ i.e. a reduction in high risk sexual behavior.
The model also presupposes that by knowing their HIV status, a HIV+ person will
behave responsibly and avoid infecting others. This assessment found that many
people in all groups studied adopt high risk sexual practices despite adequate
knowledge of HIV and AIDS, more so in IDP and refugee situations than in the host
communities. This suggests that the factors causing high risk sexual activity. For
example, in IDP camps insecurity is a major factor, which is further complicated by the

                                           135
Social and Gender Assessment


lack of livelihood opportunities, idleness, drunkenness, loss of self-esteem, and
breakdown of socio-cultural norms. In refugee camps, encampment and restrictions on
movement result in limited livelihood opportunities, feelings of powerlessness,
despondency and again, drunkenness. The end result in all instances is "irresponsible"
behavior ­ engagement in casual and transactional sex, often un-protected.

These structural factors act as barriers to shifting knowledge into safe behavior.
Therefore, in order to move from knowledge to behavior change it is recommended that
(i) provide an environment that supports and maintains behavior change; and (ii)
addressing these factors that drive and maintain high risk sexual behavior.

There is an urgent need to re-visit the current approaches to HIV prevention and
control so as to bring them in line with the practical realities on the ground for particular
population groups to create an enabling environment that supports and maintains
behavior change. Examples include: poverty eradication strategies, rebuilding a sense
of community and re-establishing social norms, enhancing security within the camps
and outside the camps (in the IDP camps in Gulu District ­ within the camps and in the
refugee camps in Mbarara District, ensuring the roads in and out of all camps are
patrolled). A specific example would be access to post-traumatic stress counseling for
IDPs in Gulu District as part of a mechanism to reduce high risk sexual contact
undertaken as a way of relieving stress and boredom associated with idleness and
powerlessness.

In order to address these underlying causes of high risk sexual behavior, and therefore
the spread of HIV and AIDS, HIV/AIDS programs must shift from bio-medical and
behavioral interventions towards "structural interventions". Key stakeholders should
recognize as co-factors of HIV transmission issues such as food insecurity, lack of
livelihood opportunities, camp congestion, insecurity, poverty, weakened social
institutions, and cultural practices. Programs that address these factors should be
therefore be considered, such as income-generating activities for men and women;
youth centers that offer life skills training, education, sport and cultural programs; and
improving the living conditions for long-term displaced people (i.e. reducing congestion,
providing better shelters, adapting land for cultivation ­ such as the model IDP villages
constructed around Beni in Eastern DRC).

As the factors causing and maintaining high risk sexual behavior are inter-related and
complex, a holistic approach to programming is vital. As different displaced populations
live in different circumstances, approaches to reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS must be
contextualized. Integrating issues that are barriers to people adopting safer sexual
practices are essential and have been successfully integrated into community
HIV/AIDS programs throughout the world.

As gender disparities exist as a result of traditional gender roles, power structures and
strategies for empowering women and providing them with a safe environment with
opportunities to provide adequately for their families. Programs that are aimed at
empowering women, should build into their aims an objective of eliminating all forms of
discrimination and violence against women. Such programs must be tailored to each
populations situation. Examples include: (i) income-generating activities for women
and men; (ii) Seminars for men and women together on SGBV and HIV transmission
and preventing transmission of the virus to men, women and children­ such seminars
could open the door for husbands and wives to openly discuss the topic at home; and
(iii) negotiation and life skills training and support for male and female youth in schools,
youth centers, and anti-AIDS clubs, such as occurs elsewhere in Africa; (iv) all
development training addresses gender issues in all programs, including those
circumstances that lead women to engage in transactional sex. Such training could
include income generation and life skills training for women and male and female
youth.

                                            136
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report



HIV, AIDS and STIs education should be addressed under a broader approach of
reproductive and sexual health, especially for children and youth. At present, it seems
that HIV/AIDS facts and prevention information are taught in isolation from biology and
reproductive health and are taught such that children know the facts but are left
thinking that sex in all situations is "bad".

 Revitalizing Standard, Current Approaches
Standard approaches to prevention and care have started losing momentum. For
example, many messages have become stale, as they are repeated over and over
again, sometimes to audiences that have stopped listening. There has also been a
wrong assumption that HIV/AIDS messages and programs, as in the case of refugee
camps, once crafted, would receive the same type of "positive" audience.

All aspects of programming must be reviewed to ensure that they are having a positive
impact on behavior change and reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS. This includes
reviewing assumptions behind standard interventions, as well as the content of
HIV/AIDS message content and mode of delivery. In general, the actual focus of
prevention programs must shift from awareness-raising to behavior change
communication (BCC). To do this an enabling environment is necessary (as mentioned
above), and ensuring populations have access to correct and complete information in
combination with life skills training and support for changing behavior, especially for
youth. All stakeholders who implement HIV/AIDS education programs must realign
their programs to promote and measure decreases in high risk sexual activity in all
levels. This will require a focus on removing the barriers to reducing high risk sexual
behavior ­ addressing the underlying causes or drivers of high risk sexual behavior.
Lastly in moving from awareness-raising to behavior change, monitoring becomes
essential and shifts from monitoring inputs to evaluating outputs and outcomes.

HIV/AIDS education must be contextualized to the characteristics of the population or
target group and the location of concern. Programs must work with community leaders
to open the dialogue on sex and sexuality. Similarly, changes in gendered power
relations, coupled with communication and access to health information and services
must be made urgently. Monitoring and outcome evaluation are currently weak and
must be improved. Specific measures are discussed for each population group.

It is also vital to include all vulnerable groups in HIV/AIDS control and prevention
programs. At present, the Uganda National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan does not include
refugees, asylum seekers, or IDPs as a vulnerable group. It is recommended that IDPs
particularly, but also refugees are included in this policy. For as long as displaced
populations are not addressed in national or sector policies, responses to reduce their
vulnerability to HIV will continue to fall short of expectations.

 Harmonizing approaches in this section
Three levels of harmonization were found to require attention in Uganda: (i)
harmonization of policies within government; (ii) harmonization between neighboring
countries policies, programs and cadre of service providers; and (iii) harmonization of
program / intervention between organizations and within organizations.

At the national level Uganda has been a world leader in the development of key
policies on HIV/AIDS. However, policy implementation as well as monitoring and
evaluation to test the efficacy of programs still fall short of expectations. Still the many
policies and programs in place to address HIV/AIDS across government ministries are
not well coordinated. Therefore, the extent to which these policies and programs
benefit ordinary citizens or IDPs is variable because HIV/AIDS cuts across all areas of

                                            137
Social and Gender Assessment


peoples lives and therefore becomes the responsibility of all sectors of government. It
is recommended that government ministries and each of their HIV/AIDS prevention and
control efforts are coordinated with each other and with activities of the UAC and
UACP.

At local levels, it is recommended that neighboring administrative areas collaborate and
harmonize their HIV/AIDS programs ­ although they each receive their own budgets
and design and implement their own plans.

Similarly regionally, policies and programs are in place in countries that neighbor
Uganda. These policies and programs vary between countries but in most cases cover
similar activities - peer education, condom distribution, awareness raising, and VCT.
However, the levels of programming, areas of focus, and even approach to design and
implementation seems to vary. This is a major challenge considering that many
populations in the GLR are mobile ­ both voluntarily and involuntarily (as refugees).
Particular problems arise when large-scale migrations occur across borders, but little or
nothing is known about their state of awareness; access to information; attitudes;
existing risk behavior, and treatment regimes regarding HIV/AIDS. It is recommended
that harmonization of policies and programs in the GLR include the establishment of
effective and on-going communication on key cross-border issues among national
HIV/AIDS authorities in the GLR (which will occur under GLIA); the identification and
discussion of HIV/AIDS issues that are better addressed at the regional level (for
example those relating to cross-border trade, transport, trafficking, etc); and ensuring
HIV/AIDS assessments are made promptly when large groups of people cross borders
in order to determine the starting point for involving them in HIV/AIDS activities.

Related to the movement of people in the GLR, a large number of refugees have been
trained while in exile as peer educators, HIV/AIDS counselors, and community health
workers.,. These roles are often not be maintained once the refugees are repatriated,
although they would be extremely useful resources in their homeland. Therefore, a
mechanism should be put in place to ensure this resource is not lost in their home
country or place of new abode. Such mechanisms could also include a network for
information sharing and support between professionals from the different GLR
countries through sharing of information, training, developing key programs and
policies (e.g. condom social marketing), designing IEC materials, etc.

Another level at which harmonization with respect to implementing of HIV/AIDS
programs is still lacking is within organizations and between organizations working with
the same group of people in the same location ­ such as in Awer IDP Camp, in which
Government Departments, NGOs, Faith-Based Organizations and the Army have
HIV/AIDS activities. Among both refugees and IDPs HIV/AIDS services tended to be
delivered in discrete components, each with its primary objectives, but with no
horizontal linkages between the components. Therefore, it is recommended that
stakeholders working in the same geographical area, especially with the same
population, should harmonize their approaches and messages. The responsibility for
this harmonization and coordination could fall to the UAC, MoH, UACP or be
outsourced to specialized organizations, such as TASO and AIC, or to District AIDS
Committees; or where refugees are concerned, to the UNHCR.

In addition, in the refugee camps where UNHCR was a key player, programs were also
discrete ­ health; education, community based services, etc. For greater impact to be
achieved efforts should have been made to link up all the programs both horizontally
and vertically and to address HIV/AIDS from a more holistic perspective. Therefore,
individual organizations, such as UNHCR and URCS, should adopt a holistic approach
to program design and implementation, so that programs are integrated both vertically
and horizontally to ensure that HIV/AISD and the causes of high risk behavior are
addressed consistently across the refugee populations being served.

                                          138
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report



Finally, the researchers noted that in situations in which multiple stakeholders are
delivering HIV education, the messages being delivered were inconsistent with one
another, and in some cases with GOU policies. For example, faith-based organizations
do not promote condoms, whereas other NGOs do. In the Kibaati Camp, the asylum
seekers had received HIV prevention seminars from the Uganda Red Cross Society,
which promoted the use of condoms, as well as a lecture from an organization that
used perforated condoms to demonstrate that condoms leak.

 Institutional Mechanisms and Resources
Although a number of concerns about the spread of HIV across GLR borders exist with
movement of refugees, traders, truck drivers and others with cross-border ethnic ties.
However, at present, neither regional institutional mechanism nor resources exist for
harnessing and promoting intra-regional collaboration and implementation of activities.
Yet the success of cross-border and regional activities not only needs coordination but
also sufficient funding in order to function. Therefore, it is essential for the governments
of the region, through GLIA, mechanisms must be developed for collaboration that are
well-design, well-funded, effectively implemented, and adequately monitored. Also
sufficient resources must be allocated to the design, planning, implementation and
monitoring of this mechanism.

In Uganda, sectoral and local HIV/AIDS policies and strategies are at different levels of
development and implementation, which has implications for nature and extent of
collaboration and coordination. The government mechanism for coordination must be
strengthened.


            RECOMMENDATIONS FOR UGANDAN COMMUNITIES
The recommendations in this section apply to Ugandan systems. These include
government policy and program implementation and monitoring, service delivery,
community regulations and systems. As the IDPs are Ugandan citizens and are served
by GOU and NGOs who operate under GOU frameworks, many of these
recommendations also apply to the situation in the IDP camps. The following section
(Section 8.3) will deal with recommendations that pertain solely to the situation of the
IDPs.

The issues that need to be addressed for reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS include: (i)
revitalizing standard HIV/AIDS programs to ensure a comprehensive package of
activities are delivered; (ii) improving the quality of, and access to, a range of health
care services; (iii) reducing and controlling idleness in youth and adults; (iv) controlling
alcohol related sexual risks; and (vi) support and livelihood opportunities for poor single
mothers, as discussed in the broad recommendations above and under each of the
displaced populations.
 Revitalizing Current, Standard HIV/AIDS Programs and Policies
Despite the existing HIV/AIDS programs of the GOU and of NGOs the findings of the
Social and Gender Assessment of suggest the need for a shift to focus on behavior
change through improvements in targeting especially to military personnel, standard
education programs, condom availability, and monitoring and evaluation.

The specific recommendations made below must be delivered as a comprehensive
HIV/AIDS package that focuses on behavior change. The definition of such a package
can be set by the GOU- UAC, UACP -or a group of government and non-government
implementers. All agencies would then be required to deliver this standard package.
Such a system would require collaboration and coordination between District HIV/IADS

                                            139
Social and Gender Assessment


Committees with national level HIV/AIDS authorities (UAC, UACP), and between
NGOs operating at local level and District HIV/AIDS Committees. Further, it is
recommended that HIV/AIDS programs are part of a wider set of programs that include
water, health, and other social services that address the need for basic survival.

The researchers also recommend that the GOU consider developing and providing
specialized support for district HIV/AIDS committees in districts still experiencing
insecurity. Such support could include coordinating and arranging that medical
supplies, condoms and IEC materials are provided without delays. These could be
transported to rural areas and camps with food rations. Also funds should be made
available for the transport to rural clinics, for motivating health care staff and others
involved in delivering HIV/AIDS services. It is further recommended that training of peer
educators, health staff and others is provided in situ instead of requiring people to
travel to towns along insecure routes to receive training. This recommendation would
require a cadre of local trainers is developed. This training of trainers could be
delivered by major HIV/AIDS training organizations, such as TASO or AIC. Most
importantly, the GOU and the Army are requested to ensure that route security,
[particularly for the delivery of key medical supplies and for NGO workers trying to
access populations in rural areas and camps.

 Targeting
Certain categories of people, such as IDPs in camps, sex workers and soldiers, should
be targeted with special programs. It is recommended that GOU policies and programs
include targeting into existing programs must be made more effective, such that
targeted groups exhibit a measurable increase in knowledge, changed attitudes and
changed behavior. District HIV/AIDS committees must take up these policies into local
programming. It is also recommended that NGOs be encouraged and facilitated to
target all high risk populations in their operational areas. These changes must be
effectively monitored by measuring outcomes in local surveillance surveys.

In relation to the soldiers, particularly those stationed near IDP camps, the
establishment of one officer responsible for HIV/AIDS education and condom
distribution is an excellent initiative, at least on paper. However, the frequent reference
by research respondents to military personnel as a significant factor in HIV
transmission calls for a two-prong strategy where (i) efficient and effective HIV/AIDS
and health services are delivered; and (ii) measures are taken by the Army and local
government to put in place a code of conduct that curbs high risk multiple partner
sexual behavior. It is recommended that the GOU undertake an assessment into the
effectiveness of this Army HIV/AIDS program. The researchers further suggest rigorous
training of the HIV officer, incentives for the officer to perform, videos on HIV/AIDS to
be shown to soldiers, integration of HIV/AIDS prevention messages into the military
briefings, and availability of VCT for all soldiers that includes regular testing. It is
recommended that a specialized HIV/AIDS organization, such as TASO or AIC, be
engaged by the GOU and the Army to ensure that HIV/AIDS officers in the military are
trained adequately. The GOU is recommended to ensure condom supplies, and the
Army to distribute condoms to all soldiers and ensure accessible distribution points in
detachment bases.

It is further recommended that special-focus approaches are adopted for sub-
populations that are not operating in a "normal environment". This would include
amongst others, refugees, asylum seekers and IDPs. Representatives of each of these
populations should be involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of
HIV/AIDS programs designed specifically for them. The needs of such populations
should also be incorporated into national HIV/AIDS policies by the GOU ­ MOH, UAC,
UACP.


                                           140
                                                                    UGANDA Country Report


 Standard Prevention Programs
The GOU is recommended to reassess regular elements of the standard HIV/AIDS
package of activities delivered in public and NGO programs to ensure they are tailored
to be effective for the population targeted. For example, peer education systems must
select appropriate peers, train, deploy, supervise and motivate them and monitor their
actions for each section of the population. Currently, appropriate selection does not
occur ­ for example, it is not appropriate for a young female peer educator to deliver
messages to middle aged men. Appropriate and acceptable educators would be
respected peers for each sub-group in the community­ leaders, men and women,
youth and adults and peers from high-risk or vulnerable groups. NGOs, GOU and local
government are urged to ensure peer educators are appropriate to each group.

The GOU is recommended to develop standards for training of peer educators, and to
ensure that NGOs and others train peer educators to a specified standard. In all
programs, government and non-government, it is recommended that supervision and
monitoring of peer educators occurs to ensure that community meetings and
information dissemination, condom demonstrations and distribution are occurring. This
supervision and support of peer educators could be provided by local government,
local leaders and health facility staff in the form of HIV/AIDS coordinators who are well-
trained, motivated and supported. It may also be necessary to motivate peer educators
by the provision of rewards (uniform, expenses, refresher training) and logistical
support (transport, props for demonstration, IEC materials, penile models and a
condom supply). It is also vital that NGOs, health centers and local government (LCI
and III) ensure that the entire community knows who their peer educators are and what
their roles are. And on the other hand, to ensure educators are available to their
community, as decided by the community and leaders and that these educators are
acceptable and even chosen by the community or the appropriate peer group. Each
program must monitor increases in knowledge and changed sexual practices.

HIV/AIDS messages must be kept fresh and sensitization continuous. Focus on
messages that provide hope for life and counter myths and incorrect information about
sex and sexuality are also recommended for all providers of HIV/AIDS education and
health promotion.

It is also recommended that the education of youth on HIV, AIDS and STIs is provided
within a broader approach of reproductive and sexual health, particularly so the
message that "sex is bad" is not left with children and youth. This recommended is
suggested for GOU ministries (MoH, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Gender, Labor
and Social Development) at national and district level.
 Condoms
From the assessment, the provision of free condoms through health centers only in
some locations does not appear to be sufficient, particularly given the limited coverage
of health facilities in more remote rural areas of Uganda. It is recommended that the
GOU increase the supply of condoms and use local governments at village and sub-
counties to ensure condom availability to all segments of all intended populations. It is
also recommended that these condoms are easily accessible to the population in
villages. Distribution methods and points should be decided by the community. This
would require changing the focus from having a mechanism for making condoms
available free of charge in the health centre to ensuring that people can collect and use
the condoms from bars, secondary school washrooms, etc ­ places where the sub-
groups of the population say is suitable for easy and discrete access.




                                           141
Social and Gender Assessment


 Monitoring and Evaluation
The effectiveness of standard HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities must be
monitored and evaluated not only for inputs and process but for outcomes and impacts
in preventing the spread of HIV. This is currently not being done. The shift from input
to output and outcome monitoring and evaluation mentioned above, means that instead
of the number of seminars and participants at a seminar, the percent of participants
who have increased knowledge post-seminar and changes in practices in the target
population become the targets and indicators for measurement. The GOU UACP are
recommended to take the lead in ensuring evaluation of outcomes, and in promoting all
implementers to follow suit.

In addition, the MOH and the UAC are recommended to regularly reassess the
appropriateness of standard HIV/AIDS packages of activities to ensure they remain
effective and are tailored to the context of each population targeted.

 Improving Health Care Services
In Uganda, as in many poor African countries, the quality and coverage of health care
facilities for the rural population is limited. This situation impacts on the spread of
HIV/AIDS. Specifically, it limits the diagnosis and treatment of STIs in rural areas, limits
treatment of opportunistic infections, testing for HIV, and counseling.

The Uganda MOH has plans for improving coverage of the health care system, as well
as guaranteeing a standard quality of services. Therefore, no specific
recommendations are made in this area. However, the researchers recommend that
the MOH ensures that STI services, including training in symptomatic STI
management, tracing skills and the provision of STI drugs, is made available at all
levels of the Ugandan health care system.

In Uganda, VCT services operate on an outreach basis to many rural populations.
However, this assessment found that these outreach services are often insufficient to
meet the demand, results and follow-up is delayed, and the reach of the service is
limited. GOU and her partners, such as AIC, are recommended to investigate
increasing outreach services and turn around time of results. It also recommended that
the GOU and AIC investigate the feasibility and need to train counsellors from local
parishes to ensure follow up counselling is available to HIV-positive individuals in rural
areas.

 Reducing Idleness and Controlling Alcohol Related Sexual Risks
The findings of this assessment suggest that in the host population, as in the situation
for each of the encamped displaced populations studied, idleness associated with
limited and seasonal livelihoods, and more prominently alcohol consumption and
drunkenness are factors influencing high risk sexual behavior and the spread of
HIV/AIDS. Addressing the idleness, particularly in youth and men, and consequent
alcohol-related high-risk sexual behavior in HIV/AIDS programs currently falls outside
standard HIV/AIDS programming. It is therefore suggested that these factors are
included in broadened programs. Specific recommendations include:

       Local government (LC I and III) introduce by-laws to limit the sale of alcohol.
       The GOU and MOH ensure condoms are provided to bars, through the local
       councils, and are made available free of charge to customers.
       UAC, MOH, UACP and NGO implementers provide awareness to bar owners,
       possibly through local councils.
       Youth Centers are promoted at sub-county level, which would provide
       education on HIV/AIDS inside broader sexual and reproductive health

                                            142
                                                                    UGANDA Country Report


       education, life skills, vocational skills, as well as free condoms, access to youth-
       friendly services, and a supervised venue for entertainment. The responsibility
       for operating such centers could fall to local government or NGOs. It is
       recommended that the GOU investigates such services that already operate
       under NGO programs in some areas of Uganda.


  RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INTERNALLY DISPLACED POPULATIONS
Many of the recommendations given for Ugandan populations also apply to IDPs in
northern Uganda as they are served by the GOU and its NGO partners. The
recommendations given below are those that pertain specifically to the situation of
encamped IDPs.

Five major areas require attention to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS within this
population and between them and Ugandans with whom they interact: (i) improving the
standard HIV/AIDS programs; (ii) improving the delivery of health services in the
camps; (iii) improving the living environment of IDPs; (iv) providing activities for
livelihood and to reduce idleness; and (v) improving security.

The recommendations below are provided with the knowledge that return of the IDPs to
their homelands where they will live as a community with livelihood opportunities in
their own homes. The IDPs in Awer Camp insisted that this is the only solution to the
problem of HIV was to "return home". Therefore, peace-building efforts must continue
and be increased to indirectly reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the IDP populations.
However, even when the long-term solution is achieved, approaches and mechanisms
will need to be devised for addressing HIV/AIDS among the newly resettled
communities.

 Improving Standard HIV/AIDS Programs
General measures for improving standard HIV/AIDS programs discussed for the
general Ugandan population also apply to IDPs, particularly for those GOU health
services. However addition recommendations are made below.

Firstly, the HIV/AIDS needs of displaced populations should be integrated into national
strategic plans on HIV/AIDS, and the National HIV/AIDS Framework, as a vulnerable
group. Separate strategies and specific interventions that can operate in the camps
should be developed to address the vulnerability of IDPs to HIV infection. Equally,
HIV/AIDS prevention and control should be integrated into the IDP policy recently
drafted in the Office of the Prime Minister.

Secondly, HIV/AIDS programs in the IDP camps are currently sporadic, poorly
coordinated, and not delivered continuously for two main reasons: (i) the general
problems with health care service delivery in insecure areas; and (ii) the NGOs that
deliver these HIV/AIDS programs only visit the camps infrequently due to insecurity on
the route to the camp and the general fear of the staff. Several recommendations are
made to ensure that an adequate HIV/AIDS program operates in the IDP camps:
     The Army secures the route to the camps or provides armed escorts for service
        providers to travel to the camp on a planned and regular basis.
     HIV/AIDS programs should rely less on NGO workers coming into the camp.
        IDPs could be trained by NGOs as peer educators, drama communicators,
        community counselors, community-based carers, community mobilizers and
        STI contact tracers. These workers could be supervised by NGO workers on
        monitoring visits, and could be supported by health centre staff, who also have
        been trained for the purpose. Care would be needed not to overload the staff at
        the health centre. The UNHCR and its partner in the refugee camps in southern

                                           143
Social and Gender Assessment


       Uganda, the Uganda Red Cross Society, are recommended to share their
       program model for utilizing community-based HIV/AIDS programs in camps with
       NGOs, and to provide training of trainers, if required.

Some key groups should be targeted for HIV behavior change interventions. These
include soldiers who need to be equipped with quality skills on HIV prevention and with
free condoms (as discussed in the previous section); commercial and casual female
sex workers and their clients; bar owners; and youth.

Within the HIV/AIDS education, in addition to those recommendations made for the
Ugandan population, there is a need for continuous sensitization. This sensitization
should involve appropriate, relevant and non-monotonous messages and modes of
delivery. Specific attention should be paid to the fact that messages of "AIDS kills" do
not mean a lot in an environment where the IDPs have experienced violence and the
deaths and abduction of family members or where death from rebel attacks could occur
at any time. Particularly in the case of IDPs, messages promoting hope would be
appropriate. This recommendation is directed at the NGOs working in HIV/AIDS
programs in the camps and in Gulu District, as well as to the MOH, Prime Ministers
Office, District Medical staff and the District HIV/AIDS Committee.

It is also recommended that the MOH and NGOs incorporate STI awareness in
HIV/AIDS programs and that all education is delivered inside of a broader reproductive
and sexual health context.

Although VCT services are available in most IDP camps, these services are irregular.
In order for VCT to take root, it ought to be provided regularly and reliably, and at no
cost to the user, as discussed for the Ugandan population.

 Improving Health Care Services in the Camp
In general, the health service delivery staff in Gulu District is constrained by the lack of
appropriate channels and/or links to circumvent problems created by insecurity in the
region. They also operate with very limited resources and supervisory support, given
the high STI, HIV and AIDS prevalence in the area and the complexity of delivering
services in situations of insecurity. Insecurity in Gulu District creates problems for the
population accessing services, particularly Lacor District Hospital and Awer Health
Centre, as they must travel on unsafe routes. Insecurity also creates supply shortages
of needed drugs and materials for health facilities outside Gulu town; and no mobile or
outreach services can operate. In these situations, staffing and facility coverage are
inadequate as evidenced by the Health Centre in Awer IDP Camp, which is trying to
serve a population of 50,000 who come from over a 20km radius with only seven staff.

It is recommended that the MOH and the District Medial Coordination Officer looks at
mechanisms to increase the range and quality of health services in insecure districts,
such as Gulu. The health centers in IDP camps provide basic health services that are
part of the package of services for health units throughout Uganda, which overlooks the
special circumstances in which people in the IDP camps live. It is recommended that
the MOH and the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan address these inadequacies.
Specific recommendations include:
      MOH increasing the staffing, providing incentives for staff.
      All preventive and curative aspects of primary health care and HIV/AIDS should
         be combined and based on the "minimum health package of Uganda's MoH"
      Making services friendlier so that IDPs present for STIs
      Establishment of an anonymous facility for treating rape victims would ensure
         that there is more reporting of such cases. This could include post-exposure
         prophylaxis (PEP) for victims of rape, such as operates in some of UNHCRs
         refugee camps.
                                            144
                                                                     UGANDA Country Report


       Introduction of a discrete STI program where anonymity is guaranteed; and
       which includes contact tracing.

It is important that health service delivery is designed in such a way that it sits well in
the context of other services, such as food distribution (where, for example, nutritional
value can be obtained in support of improved health), HIV/AIDS programs, SGBV
programs and female empowerment programs.

The provision of professional help into the general health care services of the camps in
order to provide support for IDPs who have been the victims of terror to re-assimilate
into a semi-normal pattern of life, as well as to do much for reducing the feelings of
doom expressed by IDPs in Awer Camp. Reduction of stress may contribute to the
reduction of people engaging in sex as a stress relief! Such services could be provided
by specialized NGOs, such as World Vision in Gulu. Funding for this initiative should be
sought from the GOU and outside donors. It is recommended that the provision of post-
traumatic stress counseling for IDPs is incorporated in the new IDP policy draft.

In the medium term, there may be occasion for the GOU to investigate the need to
provide ARVs to select IDPs as a public health measure and to prolong the lives of
single parents with children or other vulnerable groups identified by the MOH in such a
program. This should be undertaken bearing in mind issues of confidentiality as well as
ethical issues as outlined in Government of Uganda (GoU) policies.

 Improving the Living Environment in IDP Camps
One immediate issue for IDPs is the overcrowding and congestion of the camps. It is
recommended that the GOU (Prime Ministers Office and Gulu District) de-congest the
camp by enlarging the area covered by the camp to give more space for each shelter
and to provide garden areas. The Army would need to provide security for the
increased camp around its perimeter. Decongestion coupled with improving security
would lead to reduced promiscuity and bartering of sex.

Another immediate need is food security in the camps. It is recommended that the
GOU and WFP guarantee increased and improved food rations particularly because
IDPs are not able to grow their own food due to insecurity in the areas of their fields.
This means that IDPs rely on food rations provided by WFP and humanitarian
organizations. Unfortunately, the quantity of food usually supplied is either inadequate
or the food is of poor quality ­presence of weevils, and beans taking 4 hours of boiling
to soften. To increase the quantity and frequency of food deliveries the food pipeline
must be secured- for example, the trucks delivering the food could travel in convoy to
the camps. In addition, the food supplied should be of a reasonable quality, which
would decrease the need for women to forage for food outside the camps, to work
fields away from the camp, and to search for firewood.

It is also recommended that the IDPs, lead by the elders and camp leaders, reactivate
traditional community social structures within the IDP camps. This would serve a dual
role of helping regulate social factors, such as alcohol consumption; and awareness
creation and re-establishing social support networks.

Lastly, enhancing coordination of services in conflict areas is an important mechanism
for effective service delivery in conflict areas. Service delivery in IDP camps is still
vertically structured, and ad hoc in nature. This limits the extent to which synergies can
be attained between the programs serving different basic needs. It is recommended
that delivery of social services is coordinated by a camp manager and camp
management committee under the Gulu District Government



                                           145
Social and Gender Assessment


 Provision of Activities for Livelihood and to Reduce Idleness
Among IDPs, women who head households or who must provide resources for the
family are among the most vulnerable to HIV infection and to transmission of the virus.
Their situation in IDP camps is more tenuous due to the breakdown of traditional social
support networks. For such women, the lack of their own support mechanism or
income is one of the most pressing factors, which drives them (i) to search for food
outside the camp; (ii) into the brewing, selling and consumption of alcohol and
drunkenness; and /or (iii) bartering sex or prostitution. All are activities that involve
possible high risk sexual activity and exposure to the risk of HIV infection. It is
recommended that the following activities could be considered:

       Provision of income generation opportunities for women so that they can obtain
       necessary resources.
       Provision of income generation opportunities for men to reduce idleness,
       alcohol consumption, and to increase the feeling of worth in playing the
       traditional role of provider.

In addition, the presence of many idle and sexually active youth in the camp would
merit the introduction of a youth-friendly service within the health centre setting, as well
as a youth centre. Youth Centers, along the lines of those in UNHCR-run refugee
camps, would be an appropriate example to trial.

 Improving Security In and Around the Camps
Most rape or defilement takes place either in areas outside the camp or in the camp
itself during the night when it is dark. Options for increasing security for the IDPs
include:

           Provision of battery-operated lighting in the camp by possibly, the local
           government, at night to enhance personal security.
           Provision of security personnel by the Army or IDP volunteers to accompany
           women when they have to venture out of the camp to forage for food.
           Enhancing the safety of the route to Gulu town to enable IDPs to access the
           hospital, for supplies to reach the camp regularly, and program staff
           (including for HIV/AIDS and SGBV programs) to access the camp.
           Providing a good mechanism for reporting sexual violence by IDPs and
           soldiers that brings the perpetrator to book. If a system of enforcing
           womens rights were in place, then this may deter would-be perpetrators.

In addition, engaging human rights organizations to monitor the situation in conflict
areas is recommended to ensure the military and others are not acting illegally.


              RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ENCAMPED REFUGEES
An analysis of the findings from the social and gender assessment revealed three key
areas for intervention to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, some of which are similar to
those for IDPs. These areas are: (i) Improving the quality of life in the camps; (ii)
moderating activities that lead to high risk sexual behavior; and (iii) improving existing
HIV/AIDS programs.

The already commendable work of UN agencies, NGOs and other institutions in
mitigating the impact of HIV/AIDS could be boosted even further by ensuring that
HIV/AIDS is not only considered as a health issue whose delivery is only seen through
the health component of the refugee program, but also one that cuts across all
programs and policies that are relevant for refugees. UNHCR and her implementing
partners are advised to coordinate programs operating in refugee camps so they are
                                            146
                                                                   UGANDA Country Report


not just a series of unrelated vertical programs in the camp. Specifically, these
programs include HIV/AIDS/Reproductive Health, Health, SGBV/Protection,
Community Development, Security, Distribution and others.

Further, the inter-disciplinary nature of the HIV/AIDS problem in refugee camps such
as Awer Camp, coupled with the need to keep the HIV/AIDS issue alive in the minds of
all warrant the intervention and strengthening of other structures of governance and
service delivery mechanisms, such as refugee welfare committees and IDP Committee.
However, all leaders and members of committees must act as role models ­ and not
demand sex for extra food as was reported in Nakivale and Oruchinga Camps.

The recommendations presented below for reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS in refugee
camps in Uganda, and between Ugandans and refugees are given on the proviso that
more durable solutions for refugees who are displaced from their homeland must be
found. In the case of eventual repatriation or resettlement of refugees, the UNHCR
should implement programs in the camps that are in line with programs currently in
place in the country of future settlement. In addition, adequate planning would need to
be undertaken to explore ways of absorbing trained health service delivery personnel
into the programs in place in the countries of repatriation or resettlement.

 Improving the Quality of Life in the Camps
Inadequate supply of food is one of the factors leading women to leave the camp to
find food and to barter sex in return for food and money. Provision of an adequate
supply of food, at least in quantity and quality, would diminish the need for women to
forage for food or to look for other varieties of foodstuffs which put many refugee and
IDP women at risk of being sexually exploited. The researchers realize that it is not
feasible for WFP to undertake all recommendations alone. Feasible options include:
         WFP should increase the quantity of the basic food ration supplied to meet
            the basic daily adult requirement of 2,100 kcal per day, particularly for
            refugee households that do not have access to land for cultivation.
         UNHCR promote a variety of food, such as milk, fruit and vegetables in
            camp markets.
         Introduce well-thought out and well-supervised food for work programs (as
            WFP have done in other countries). Such programs would tap displaced
            peoples latent energy, keeping them busy and thereby reducing idleness
            and alcohol consumption during the daytime. At the same time, these
            programs would provide extra food for families and eliminate the need for
            women to forage for food outside the camp, thereby reducing the risk of
            sexual exploitation and violence. Such a program could be a supervised
            program involving the cooperation between refugees, administrators, and
            local Ugandan farmers, in which the needs of all were met and the risk of
            HIV transmission was reduced.

 Moderating Activities That Lead To High Risk Sexual Behavior
As suggested in the case of IDP camps, it is recommended that actions are adopted to
reduce idleness and regulate alcohol consumption and high risk sexual behaviors
linked to alcohol.

As with other populations studied, the provision of vocational skills, especially for men
and the youth to address idleness is recommended. Provision of practical skills and
opportunities are one way of addressing the triple objectives of enhancing human
capital among displaced persons, reducing idleness and bringing in income support for
the family. In addition, in households in which trained men do use their new skills for
providing for the families, the traditional role of men will be fulfilled.


                                          147
Social and Gender Assessment


The UNHCR and Uganda Red Cross Society are also encouraged to facilitate the
establishment of income generating opportunities and revolving funds. The importance
of income-earning opportunities among displaced persons, especially women, cannot
be over-emphasized. Having a cash income would give refugees an opportunity to
access additional food, rent land, and access other basic necessities. In addition,
working in income generation will reduce idleness and these links with HIV
transmission, as well as reduce womens vulnerability to sexual exploitation when
foraging for food outside the camp, as well as the necessity to barter sex for food or
money inside the camp.

Youth centers as mentioned previously are also key tools for reducing idleness and
enhancing skills for avoiding HIV transmission.

Recommendations for refugee committees and the UNHCR and partners for regulating
alcohol consumption include the introduction of by-laws or regulations by the Refugee
Committee and the Camp Management regarding the hours of operation of bars and
restrictions on selling to under age people and drunken clients. It is also recommended
that the Uganda Red Cross Society ensure bar owners are sensitized regarding
HIV/AIDS, and are provided with condoms for free distribution in bars and
entertainment venues.

 Improving Existing HIV/AIDS Programs
It is recommended that all HIV/AIDS programs move from awareness-raising to
behavior change communication to adopt safer sex practices. Immense awareness has
been created so far about HIV and AIDS in refugee camps. In spite of this information,
behavior change appears to be slow. Recommendations have been presented in
previous sections.

Efforts need to be made to make VCT services more regular and sufficient to meet the
demand. Responsibilities lie with the MOH, UAC and the implementers of VCT, such
as TASO and AIC. Specifically:
         VCT operations should operate regularly in camps on specific days and
           times known widely to the community;
         Educate the refugee and local populations together on the importance of
           knowing their status;
         Reduce the stigma and embarrassment of going for testing by linking the
           VCT discretely with youth centers, administration offices etc rather than only
           in the health centre;
         Ensure that the process of getting test results are appropriate and
           acceptable to the population;
         Ensure follow-up support for those testing HIV positive- psychological
           support, food supply, drugs, positive living knowledge, and post-test clubs.

As mentioned for other populations, the HIV/AIDS messages currently in use to break
the monotony and also translate the messages into local languages for effective
communication: Many IEC materials on HIV and AIDS which were found in the camps
were either old and monotonous, or not in the refugees languages. Messages ought to
be regularly checked for appropriateness and periodically repackaged to avoid
monotony ­ using the refugees as market testers. Serious consideration could, for
example, be given to the use of positive message ­ those that inspire hope among
people, not only those that "warn them about the dangers of HIV and AIDS". Alternative
methods of delivering messages could include: drama, youth clubs, role models,
school, church, incorporation in life skills and reproductive health education.

It is also recommended to the Ugandan NGOs and the GOU that venues frequented by
refugees should be used to deliver HIV messages. Such venues include; camp market
                                          148
                                                                    UGANDA Country Report


days and during overnight prayers, many refugees and Ugandans gather together.
Delivering HIV prevention messages and distributing, or ensuring easy discrete access
to condoms, at these venues would ensure those who use these opportunities to
engage in transactional sex or sex for pleasure had information and tools to reduce the
likelihood of HIV transmission. Continuous sensitization is also important.

As in IDP camps, psychosocial support services should be strengthened.

                RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ASYLUM SEEKERS
In the long term, asylum seekers should either be facilitated to voluntarily repatriate to
their home country, be resettled in a third country, or be considered for integration into
the local Ugandan community, like the Rwandan Tutsis were in the 1960s.

In the short term, recognition and the granting of a legal status to these Rwandan
asylum seekers by the GoU is perhaps the single most important first step to
addressing their problems. If refugee status were provided, services would be delivered
appropriately - provision of basic food and non-food items and services to Kibaati
Camp. If it is deemed that the asylum seekers are to be integration into neighboring
Ugandan communities, programs would be needed to facilitate development of the
community. If asylum seekers are recognized as bona fide refugees, they should then
be provided with land on which they can grow crops in order to supplement any food
rations that they may receive.

The introduction of income generation activities would ensure that asylum seekers,
particularly women, have access to some income with which to meet the costs of basic
needs, as discussed for refugees in Section 6.2.2 (a).




                                           149
Social and Gender Assessment




                                  REFERENCES

1. AMREF/UNHCR (2002): UNHCR Regional HIV/AIDS Peer Education Program
    Targeting Youth and Adolescents in East and Horn of Africa ­ Detailed Assessment
    of Nakivale and Adjumani Refugee Camps ­ Uganda.
2. Asingwire, M. and Byaruhanga M (1996): HIV/AIDS and the Refugees: A KAPB
    Baseline Study of Arua, East Moyo, and Oruchinga, Mbarara Refugee Camps.
    ACORD, Kampala.
3. Gulu District (1995).The Burden of Disease study
4. Makerere University, Department of Social Work and Social Administration (2003).
    District Response Initiative on HIV/AIDS- Study Report Mbarara District.
5. Ministry of Health (1996): STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report. (STD/AIDS Control
    Program) Entebbe Uganda.
6. Ministry of Health (2002): STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report. (STD/AIDS Control
    Program) Kampala Uganda.
7. Ministry of Health (2003): STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report. (STD/AIDS Control
    Program) Kampala Uganda .
8. Ministry of Health (2004). Annual Health Sector Performance Report 2003/04.
9. Ministry of Health (2005). Uganda HIV/AIDS Sero-Behavioral Survey (UHSBS)
10. Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development / UNICEF (2004). Situation
    Analysis of Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Uganda
11. Norwegian Refugee Council, 2005. Global IDPS. Website:
    http://www.db.idpproject.org/Sites/idpSurvey.nsf/wCountries/Uganda
12. Republic of Uganda (2000). Learning from the poor.
13. Republic of Uganda (2004): "Report on Mid-Term Review of the Uganda HIV/AIDS
    Control Project, Kampala
14. Republic of Uganda/UAC (2004): The Revised NSF for HIV/AIDS: Activities in
    Uganda, 2003/04 ­ 2005/06.
15. Uganda Bureau of Statistics (2002). Uganda Census
16. Uganda HIV/AIDS Control Project (2004): "Draft Report on Mid-Term Review of
    Uganda HIV/AIDS Control Project", Kampala, Uganda.
17. URCS ­ SWRO Mbarara (2004). Health / Nutrition / HIV/AIDS: Jan 2003 ­ April
    2004.
18. UNAIDS (1999): Prevention of HIV Transmission from Mother to Child Best
    Practice Collection), Geneva, Switzerland.
19. UNAIDS (2000): Epidemiological Fact Sheet on HIV/AIDS and STIs, (2000 update),
    Geneva, Switzerland.
20. UNAIDS (2000): Guidelines for Studies of the Social and Economic Impact of
    HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS Best Practice Collection), Geneva, Switzerland.
21. UNAIDS (2003): Progress report on the Global Response to the HIV/AIDS
    epidemic. Geneva Switzerland.
22. UNAIDS (2004). Report on the Global HIV Epidemic
23. UNDP (2003). Human Development Report ­ Uganda 2003
24. UNDP, World Bank, UN Habitat, AMICAALL, (2003): Local Government Responses
    to HIV AIDS
25. UNICEF (2004), Inter-Agency Humanitarian Assessment of IDPs in Rural Lira, Lira
    District Uganda
26. WFP (2004). Statistics for Food Distribution to IDPs
27. World Bank, Draft Guidelines for Social Assessment of HIV/AIDS Projects(undated)




                                        150
                                                                      TANZANIA Country Report



                            PART III. TANZANIA COUNTRY REPORT

                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS among Refugees and Internally
Displaced Populations (IDPs) in Tanzania aimed "to determine and better understand
the factors influencing the transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) within
refugee populations; and between such populations and neighboring Tanzanian
communities". In Tanzania, two types of refugees were studied: (i) New caseload
refugees living in two camps ­ Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps in Kibondo District141;
and (ii) Old caseload refugees settled in Ulyankulu Designated Refugee Settlement in
Urambo District142. Neighboring Tanzanian host communities were also participants in
this assessment.

In Tanzania, as elsewhere, high-risk sexual practices - unprotected sex with multiple
partners outside of permanent faithful unions ­ are the immediate conduit for HIV
transmission. The researchers have labeled this set of behavior as promiscuous sexual
behavior. This behavior persisted in despite a reasonably high awareness of the modes
of transmission of HIV, the incurability of AIDS, and prevention methods in the study
sites visited in Tanzania. This social and gender assessment investigates the reasons
behind this behavior so that interventions can be formulated to address such behavior
and reduce the spread of HIV in the GLR.

From the field assessment, three major factors groups of factors emerged that directly
or indirectly lead to high-risk sexual practices, which influence HIV transmission within
the refugee populations and between the refugee populations and the local host
populations:
    (i) Poverty, as a result of displacement and encampment, isolation, and limited
          livelihood opportunities;
    (ii) Knowledge of HIV/AIDS, attitudes to condoms and sex; and promiscuous
          behavior; and
    (iii) Inadequacy of HIV/AIDS programs and supporting health care services. In both
          the refugee populations and the host communities, gender disparities meant
          that women and adolescent girls are most vulnerable to HIV infection.

These factors are maintained by situations of interaction within the refugees, IDPs, and
between them and Tanzanians.

Multi-dimensional poverty ­ e.g. economic, social, "emotional" poverty, poverty of
information, security and opportunity ­ was found to be a factor indirectly influencing
the vulnerability to HIV/AIDS in both refugee populations studied, as well as in the host
populations. This poverty is caused by (i) displacement and encampment in the case of
new caseload Burundian refugees, (ii) limited livelihood opportunities in all populations,
particularly leading to women to engage in transactional sex to provide resources for
their families or for personal gain, and (iii) geographic isolation and remoteness in the
case of the host populations studied.

Even excellent HIV/AIDS programs such as those operated in the refugee camps in
Kibondo District, fall short of influencing major changes in high risk sexual behavior.
And although the GoT programs have community mechanisms in place to educate and
support the Tanzanian villages and designated refugee settlements, these are largely
non-functional on the ground in the communities visited under this assessment. GoT
STI and VCT also demonstrated operational problems that may limit their effectiveness
141
      Burundian refugees have been in camps for 10 years or less
142
      Burundian refugees who fled Burundi for Tanzania 32 years ago

                                                   151
Social and Gender Assessment


in reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS. In general, the poor quality and distance to health
facilities in the Tanzanian health care system also impacts negatively on the spread of
HIV/AIDS.

These primary and secondary factors influencing HIV transmission operate at three
levels:
    (iv) At the level of the behavior ­ knowledge, attitudes and behaviors, such as
         sexual preferences and practices, idleness, behavior as a result of camp
         congestion, drinking of alcohol, behavior at social gatherings, and women
         transacting sex for gain;
    (v) At the household level ­ restrictions in livelihood activities and opportunities.
    (vi) Weakening societal structures, which undermine traditional norms and checks
         on social and sexual behavior, especially in the case of the encamped refugees

For the Burundian refugees in Ulyankulu Designated Refugee Settlement, under the
control of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the key factors influencing the spread of
HIV/AIDS included:
    Promiscuous behavior associated with infidelity; youth unable to abstain;
        alcohol consumption; idleness in men; social gatherings; the presence of
        commercial sex workers and women willing to engage in sex for gain in
        combination with limited use of condoms and a potentially high sexually
        transmitted infection (STI) prevalence.
    Alcohol availability and consumption
    Limited livelihood activities and the responsibility of women to provide for their
        families has lead some women to engage in sex for money for gaining basic
        needs
    Idleness of men in the dry season
    Movement into the settlement of Tanzanians
    Deficiencies in knowledge about HIV and AIDS
    Cultural practices
    Limited health services.

In the refugee camps in Kibondo District, the following factors emerged from the
assessment:
     Encampment, which was associated with congestion; dependency on aid;
       alcohol consumption; idleness; restriction of movement; and psychological
       stress.
     Poverty, limited livelihood opportunities and powerlessness, in general and
       more importantly for women.
     High levels of alcohol consumption linked with idleness and social gatherings
     Promiscuous and sexual behavior in which over 90 percent over 16 year olds
       were reported to sexually active, and 50% of married couples are unfaithful.
     Disintegration of family and social structures.

In neighboring host Tanzanian communalities factors common to them included:
     Limited knowledge of HIV and AIDS in some cases, combined with
       promiscuous sexual behavior and limited condom use
     Poverty as a result of geographical isolation and remoteness
     Idleness, alcohol and drunkenness
     Limited access to, and quality of, health care services, and HIV/AIDS education
       programs
     Traditional practices and gender imbalances in favor of men
     Interactions with outsiders, such as refugees, guests, traders, military personnel
       and miners



                                          152
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report


From the above findings and analysis, three areas for focus in reducing the spread of
HIV/AIDS in refugee and local populations in Tanzania that ensure - (i) people are
aware of the routes of transmission of HIV, services for HIV prevention and treatment
of AIDS; (ii) people are empowered to protect themselves, their families and their
communities from infection and to care for those who are infected with the virus; and
(iii) the creation of an environment in which behavior change and maintenance is
promoted.

The researchers encourage policy makers and program implementers to expand the
current approaches to think outside the box. Specifically, we recommend that
approaches to HIV prevention be:
    i) A holistic and conceptualized approach in which programs are tailored to the
         different circumstances in which refugees and local populations live, as well as
         the different characteristics of each population. As the factors influencing HIV
         transmission will be different.
    ii) Broadening the menu of activities under HIV prevention so that activities that
         will address the root causes of high-risk behavior or vulnerability to HIV
         infection are embedded.
    iii) Approaches should be people-centered rather than activity centered. Therefore,
         programs should be founded on a firm understanding and acceptance of the
         actuality on the ground, of people's perceptions, their realities, their
         opportunities to engage in the intervention, and their constraints to
         engagement.
    iv) Focus on behavior change rather than awareness-raising as it appears that
         awareness does not necessarily lead to behavior change. Therefore, risky
         sexual behavior prevails and HIV transmission continues. The approach should
         be designed from the "bottom-up" rather the "top-down" of the current delivery
         of services and prevention interventions, and should be one of health promotion
         rather than health education ­ which will have an outcome (can be monitored)
         of empowering people to change behavior.

All of the points above should be considered and integrated with other standard
activities in the design, implementation and monitoring of HIV prevention programs.

Secondly, the standard components of HIV prevention programs - namely IEC, peer
education, broader health education, condom distribution, STI management and VCT
programs - are all necessary for HIV prevention. However, effectiveness is limited by
narrow targeting, ineffective implementation, weak or non-existent support and
supervision, and limited monitoring that concentrates on process and inputs rather than
outcomes. Many programs seem to be based on assumptions - such as "training and
deploying peer educators leads to a reduction in HIV transmission". Such assumptions
needed to be tested in each specific situation. Training peer educators and sending
them to the field may work well in some instances but in others it might not work at all.

Activities in the standard approach to HIV prevention that need to be revisited include
the following:

       i) Peer education - training, deployment and operationalizing
       ii) HIV/AIDS message content, delivery (peer educators, IEC material),
           frequency and freshness; as well as the appropriateness of messages to the
           context, and the completeness and accuracy of HIV/AIDS messages




                                          153
Social and Gender Assessment


         iii) Include life values and hope in HIV/AIDS messages - reshape messages on
              HIV/AIDS to make them inclusive of the values and of a persons life rather
              than a fear based message about dying from AIDS143
         iv) Condom availability and accessibility
         v) Quality of VCT services, peoples knowledge of the services and their rights,
              and the fear of discrimination or being recognized. In addition, even where
              people know of VCT, utilization may not be high. Therefore, there is a need
              to promote the importance of testing and declaring status ­ positive living,
              changed sexual behavior, access to life-prolonging drugs. Physical access
              can be improved by scaling up VCT coverage.
         vi) Targeting of vulnerable groups - those engaging in high-risk behavior or
              vulnerable to HIV infection
         vii) Adequate monitoring, such that in addition to process and input monitoring,
              indicators need to be include to assess changes in group and individual
              behavior.

In terms of monitoring and evaluation, adequate systems need to be in place to ensure
processes are actually occurring, as well to monitor outputs and outcomes. In
Tanzania, except in the refugee camps, little monitoring occurs of what is actually
happening at village level. And the data reported to District on process and outputs
may not be based on presumption rather than fact. Recommendations include:
adequate supervision of local initiatives; outcome monitoring at all levels; involvement
of civil society organizations and local people in data collection and feedback;
monitoring access and reach of interventions; and monitoring behavior change at
project and local levels.

During the assessment in Tanzania, the researchers noted a disharmony in
approaches to HIV/AIDS prevention, HIV/AIDS messages, amongst practitioners,
between stakeholders, between and within programs, and between local, national and
regional levels. Therefore, a consistent, collaborative and well-coordinated approach is
needed to reduce the spread of HIV. Such an approach requires careful planning,
ownership by all stakeholders, and resources to ensure opportunities for building
consensus on the most appropriate approaches for each population under each
circumstance. Coordination is imperative for approaches and activities to be
harmonized. This requires collaboration, communication and funding.




143
   For example, your life and the life of others matters and it ought to be preserved - you are an important
agent in the preservation of this generation and the next generation, preserving that life by a number of
practices.

                                                    154
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report



                            CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION

This part of the report outlines the findings and recommendations from an assessment
of factors influencing HIV/AIDS in displaced populations, refugees and internally
displaced people (IDPs) in Tanzania.

In Tanzania, , this Social and Gender Assessment (was conducted amongst new
caseload Burundian refugees living in refugee camps in Kibondo District, old caseload
Burundian refugees living in Ulyankulu Designated Settlement.


In Tanzania, the findings from the assessment will provide the TACAIDS, donors, UN
programs, NGOs and national and local governments with a better understanding of
the HIV/AIDS situation in new and old caseload refugees, and the factors influencing
the spread of the virus and the disease. Such an understanding will guide the
development of Component One of the GLIA Support Project, as well as the
development of the national and local initiatives to reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS.

It will also help inform the policies, programs and monitoring by the local leaders and
administration in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement, the Catholic Church in the Settlement,
health service providers in Ulyankulu Health Centre, UNHCR in Kibondo Region and in
north-western Tanzania, UNHCR implementing partners in Kibondo District, local
government in Kibondo District, TACAIDS MoH AIDS Control Program, Refugee
Services Department in the MHA, donors and international NGOs (See Annex 4).

Tanzania has been hosting refugees from most countries of the GLR for almost 50
years. Therefore, the research team and national government stakeholders decided to
examine old caseload refugees, who had arrived in Tanzania over 30 years ago, and
new caseload refugees, who arrived more recently and are housed in camps.
Burundian refugees were chosen as not only are they the largest proportion of
refugees in the country, but they fall into both the new and old caseload categories.

This assessment builds upon a preliminary situation analysis undertaken by UNHCR
and TACAIDS in refugee camps and neighboring communities in north-western
Tanzania in 2003.

The study was performed by the Assessment Team Leader, the Tanzanian core
researcher, and a national researcher who had worked on national HIV/AIDS surveys
in the past. National experts and key stakeholders from academic organizations,
national government, NGOs, TACAIDS were all consulted prior to commencement of
the field work in order to select and approve appropriate sites, collect background
documents, and assess local situations.

Two study groups were selected for this assessment: (i) old caseload settled Burundian
refugees living in Ulyankulu Designated Settlement in Urambo District of central
Tanzania, under the auspices of the Tanzanian MHA; and (ii) new caseload Burundian
refugees living in two UNHCR refugee camps in Kibondo District of north-west
Tanzania in UNHCR managed camps (See Figure 1 in Annex 2). Two refugees camps
were also selected in Kibondo District in order to assess any difference in factors
influencing HIV transmission as a result of proximity to a major highway, proximity to an
urban or a rural Tanzanian population, and camp size. Study sites and populations
were purposively selected. The findings from refugee populations were compared with
neighboring host populations and others with whom they interacted. Tanzanian
communities neighboring the refugee sites were chosen as the host community or
population for comparison.


                                          155
Social and Gender Assessment


In order to provide an in-depth understanding of factors influencing the transmission of
HIV, data was collected through consultation of national stakeholders, review of
existing secondary data and literature, and field study. In the field, internationally
accepted participatory methodologies were applied to a standardized research tool
(Appendix of Annex 2) to collect qualitative data. This qualitative data was verified by
triangulation methods.

Analysis of primary field data commenced during the field exercise, which ensured that
all key groups and individuals were consulted and allowed feedback to be provided and
verified during the field visit. This analysis continued in Dar es Salaam by the 3 core
researchers and the national researcher prior and following a national feedback
workshop (see Annex 4). A workshop report was prepared and distributed to all
national stakeholders and local stakeholder representatives at each study site. This
enabled recommendations to be taken up at national as well as local level.

The assessment adopted a mutual learning approach that included not only capacity
building processes of local officials and community members, but also the provision of
information on HIV and AIDS to member of study populations, particularly women.
Capacity development was provided to the national researcher; UNHCR personnel in
the Kibondo office; refugees from the Kibondo camps for conducting focus group
discussions; and local study community members as mobilizers and translators.




                                          156
                                                                               TANZANIA Country Report


                       CHAPTER 2: TANZANIA COUNTRY CONTEXT

HIV/AIDS Country Situation
 HIV/AIDS Prevalence
The most recent (2002) HIV prevalence data for Tanzania indicates a prevalence of 9.6
percent nationally ­ approximately 2.2 million people - the majority of whom are aged
between 20 and 44 years. It is estimated that over 60,000 Tanzanians have full-blown
AIDS144.

The major route of HIV transmission is through heterosexual contact (82.5 percent),
with mother-to-child transmission being the second most common route (6 percent).
Married people are more likely to be infected with HIV than unmarried (56 percent HIV+
are married); and Tanzanians with some education are more likely to be infected than
those with no education (10.2 percent vs. 6.4 percent)8. Youth, 15-24 years, are
disproportionately infected by HIV145, accounting for 30 percent of all HIV infections but
only 20 percent of the population146. Women tend to be infected earlier than men, and a
slightly higher proportion of women are infected, possibly due to socio-economic
vulnerabilities8.

In Tanzania, geographically, those people living in border areas are most affected by
HIV/AIDS ­ accounting for 17.3 percent of HIV+ cases. Twelve percent of HIV+ cases
live in urban areas, and 10 percent who live by roadsides, particularly on major
transport routes. Only 4.1 percent of Tanzanian mainlanders infected with HIV live in
rural areas8.

Kibondo District (Kigoma Region) and Urambo District (Tabora Region) were visited
during this study. In Kigoma Region, which borders Lake Tanganika and Burundi, HIV
prevalence appears to have decreased in recent years (6.4 percent in 1999 to 3.2
percent in 2002)147. However, in Kibondo District (site of new caseload refugee study
population), HIV prevalence has been variable ­ with the most recent estimate at 10.8
percent148. In some rural areas in Kigoma Region, the HIV prevalence rate amongst
females aged 20-29 years is 8 times higher that of men in the same age group149.
Likewise in Tabora Region, HIV prevalence has shown a slight decline (7.1 percent in
1999 to 6.6 percent in 2002). On the other hand, HIV prevalence has increased in
Urambo District (site of old caseload refugee study population) rising from 7.7 percent
in 1999 to 9.0 percent in 2002150.

The prevalence of STIs is an indicator of sexual networking and the degree of
unprotected sex. In 2002, 193,896 episodes of STI were reported in mainland Tanzania
­ a significant decrease from previous years. Interestingly, in rural areas STI
prevalence was at similar levels to border and roadside levels and at least two times



144
    MoH, National AIDS Control Program, March 2003. HIV/AIDS/STI Surveillance Report
145
     MoH, National AIDS Control Program, 2004. Behavioural Surveillance Surveys Amongst Youth
146
    HIV+ 15-24 years olds ­ 38 percent female and 62 percent male
147
    MoH, National AIDS Control Program, 2003. Surveillance of HIV and Syphillis Among Antenatal Ckinic
Enrollees: 2001-2002; MoH, National AIDS Control Program, March 2003. HIV/AIDS/STI Surveillance
Report
148
   , Emmanuel Wwasulama, Acting Kibondo District Medical Officer, personal communication; Kibondo
District Council 2003. Annual Report for the Year 2003
149
    TACAIDS 2004. Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA Action Plans for 5 villages surrounding
Lugufu A and II Refugee Camps - In early 2004, TACAIDS undertook a quantitative, questionnaire-based
assessment in 5 Tanzanian villages in the vicinity of Lugufu I and Lugufu II refugee camps in Kigoma Rural
District
150
    Sentinel Surveillance figures from MoH, National AIDS Control Program, March 2003. HIV/AIDS/STI
Surveillance Report and figures from Urambo District Medical Officer

                                                   157
Social and Gender Assessment


the rate of urban areas ­ indicating the possibility of increasing HIV prevalence in rural
areas151.

 Knowledge, Attitudes, Behavior of Tanzanian Population Regarding HIV/AIDS
Most Tanzanians know about HIV/AIDS and the modes of HIV transmission, mainly
through the radio and school education. However, there are widespread gaps in
knowledge and uncertainties in peoples minds152, including in communities around
refugee camps153. Men, particularly male youth, are more knowledgeable than
women154.

In the past 16 years, there has been little change in high-risk behavior although most
Tanzanians have been personally affected by the epidemic. The majority of people do
not feel any significant personal risk155. Early onset sexual activity, premarital sex,
multiple partners, and low condom use (20 percent in youth 15-24 years) 156 prevail.
Discrimination and stigma also impact on people living with HIV or AIDS (PLWHAs),
orphans, affected households and communities.

According to the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework (2003-2007), the main factors
driving the transmission of HIV include: (i) sexual habits; (ii) economic factors (poverty
and few economic opportunities for women), (iii) social factors (stigma and
discrimination), (iv) cultural factors (taboo around discussing sex in families, male
domination); (v) service inadequacies; and (vi) the resistance of some segments of
society, particularly religious organizations, to promote prevention messages.

 Impact of HIV/AIDS in Tanzania
HIV/AIDS has negatively impacted Tanzania ­ socially and economically157 - affecting
adults ­ those of reproductive and productive ages- and children - the future
generation. Adult mortality has increased leading to a drop in national life expectancy -
estimated by 2010 to be 47 years (without AIDS it would have been 56 years). AIDS is
the leading cause of death among adults and the child mortality rate has been reversed
due to HIV/AIDS158.

HIV/AIDS has impacted on the supply of labor with the majority of AIDS-related illness
and deaths occurring in the 30-40 year age group. Fifty-seven percent of households
experienced at least one death in the past 12 months159. HIV/AIDS has eroded
Tanzanias economic gains resulting from poverty reduction efforts. The World Bank
estimates that the real GDP growth rate in the period 1985-2010 will be 2.8-3.3
percent, compared to 3.9 percent - the estimated rate without AIDS25.

Productivity in the industrial sector has fallen due to an increase in absenteeism as a
result of to HIV/AIDS-related illnesses (over 80 days per year per PLWHAs with an
average of 3.6 months duration), paid sick leave, employers medical support for
151
    MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2003. HIV/AIDS/STI Surveillance Report: March 2003. National AIDS
Control Programme
152
    Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)
153
    TACAIDS 2004. Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA Action Plans for 5 villages surrounding
Lugufu A and II Refugee Camps
154
    MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2004. Behavioural Surveillance Surveys Among Youths, 2002. National
AIDS Control Programme
155
    Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)
156
    MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2004. Behavioural Surveillance Surveys Among Youths, 2002. National
AIDS Control Programme
157
    Economic & Social Research Foundation (ESRF) 2003. Economic and Social Impacts of HIV/AIDS in
Tanzania
158
    Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)
159
    ESRF 2003. Economic and Social Impacts of HIV/AIDS in Tanzania

                                                158
                                                                            TANZANIA Country Report


workers, and the loss of skilled workers through death. An average of 598 person-days
per company was lost in 200225 due to HIV/AIDS.

In the agriculture sector, AIDS has negatively affected productivity and in turn
household income and food security, resulting in deepened poverty in affected
households and high HIV prevalence areas. HIV/AIDS also reduces the time spent on
domestic productivity and family care provided by women. In addition, an increasing
proportion of household resources are spent on health care of PLWHAs and funerals.

Similarly, HIV/AIDS is affecting the delivery of social services. AIDS-related deaths
account for 40 to 100 percent of teachers deaths annually in Tanzanian Districts.
Illness and death of health workers place strains on the ability of health care services to
deliver adequate services to the population25. While at the same time, AIDS-related
illness is placing increasing demands on health care, testing and drug supplies with up
to 50 percent of hospital beds occupied by patients with HIV/AIDS related illness, and
the number of tuberculosis cases is increasing rapidly160.

Socially, HIV/AIDS disrupts families. Grandparents are taking care of orphans although
many are physically and economically incapable. Thus, many orphans must work to
generate income.

 HIV/AIDS Policies and Programs
 Policies
HIV/AIDS is recognized as a central development challenge for Tanzania. The
commitment to fight the epidemic comes from the highest levels ­ the President is
quoted as saying "Together we can and must win against HIV/AIDS. Our survival as a
nation and as a people critically depends on this victory"161. HIV/AIDS features as a top
priority in Tanzanias Poverty Reduction Strategy, Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework, and the Tanzania Assistance Strategy.

The Medium Term Plans of the National AIDS Control Program (NACP) focuses on
health issues associated with HIV/AIDS, decentralization of services and
responsibilities, and broadening stakeholder involvement.

In 2000, TACAIDS was established under the Prime Ministers Office, to coordinate the
national multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS (implementation and monitoring). It has a
vision for "a society in which our children are free from the threat of HIV/AIDS and
which cares for those who are still affected and infected by HIV/AIDS". TACAIDS is
putting in place the institutional framework required to effectively scale up the response
against HIV/AIDS162. Although a multi-sectoral approach has been promoted since
1991, operational progress has been slow. Few sectors and workplaces have
developed policies. Even in health facilities, workplace HIV/AIDS policies are not
comprehensive163.

In 2001, Tanzania developed the National Policy on HIV/AIDS164, which provides a
framework for leadership and coordination; includes sectoral formulation of appropriate
interventions; and institutional strengthening (to community and individuals). The
National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)165 provides the
operational framework for achieving the objectives of the Policy. The framework is

160
    Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)
161
    Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)
162
    TACAIDS 2004. Information leaflet
163
    ESRF 2003. Economic and Social Impacts of HIV/AIDS in Tanzania
164
    Prime Ministers Office 2001. National Policy on HIV/AIDS. Republic of Tanzania
165
    Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (2003-2007)

                                                 159
Social and Gender Assessment


geared to achieve nine goals and targets concerning decreased transmission, visibility
of the fight, stigma and human rights, reduction in STI prevalence, knowledge and
awareness, care and support, and orphans.

Donors and development partners largely fund Tanzanias HIV/AIDS efforts due to
insufficient public funds, even though in 2003, GoT funding for HIV/AIDS increased by
10 percent, amounting to at 30 percent of total public funding166.

In addition, the 2002 TACAIDS Act established AIDS Committees at each local
government level down to the village with regional and district HIV/AIDS coordinators,
who plan and coordinate HIV/AIDS efforts within each District.

 Programs
The major programs for prevention of HIV transmission, care and support of people
living with, and affected by, HIV/AIDS operate under the Ministries of Health and
Education. The MoH provides a standard prevention, treatment and care package of:
volunteer counseling and testing (VCT), prevention of mother to child transmission
(PMTCT), treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections (OI), staff training, awareness
campaigns, and condom supply and distribution. The Ministry of Education has
developed and delivers HIV/AIDS education in the school curriculum for primary school
students from P5 to P7 (without reference to condoms), and secondary students from
Senior 1 to Senior 4.

The World Bank-funded MAP167 for Tanzania has recently commenced. It will help to
address some of the inefficiencies in the current programming by introducing a District-
based Community AIDS Response Fund (CARF); supporting the MoH, other ministries
and Districts to develop, implement and monitor their HIV/AIDS plans; supporting
TACAIDS; increasing access and availability of home-based care and PMTCT; and
increasing VCT coverage, and treatment of STIs and HIV/AIDS.

NGOs, CBOs and individuals also play key roles in the fight against HIV/AIDS,
particularly in the support of orphans, prevention and awareness-raising.

The above-mentioned programs apply in Tanzanian villages and Refugee Settlements,
such as Ulyankulu. In refugee camps, UNHCR and her partners implements HIV/AIDS
programs.




166
      Prime Ministers Office 2001. National Policy on HIV/AIDS. Republic of Tanzania
167
      World Bank 2003. Tanzania Multi-sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

                                                    160
                                                                   TANZANIA Country Report


                            CHAPTER 3: REFUGEES IN TANZANIA



 Refugee Status in Tanzania
 Tanzania National Refugee Policy
The Immigration Act, the Refugee Act, the endorsement of UN conventions and
protocols, and the 2003 National Refugee Policy168 govern the presence of refugees
and asylum-seekers in Tanzania. The recent national policy on refugees is a response
to the "challenges in the areas of economic development, security, the environment
and social services"33 that the Government of Tanzania (GoT) has faced in hosting and
managing increasing numbers of refugees. This National Refugee Policy attempts to
balance Tanzanias international obligations with the countrys internal national
interests. Under this policy, the GoT will endeavor to "promote acceptable standards of
treatment [of refugees] under international refugee law, particularly with regard to the
security and dignity of human life", and refugees will be given protection and will not be
expelled from Tanzania but their status must be registered, and movement and rights
will be restricted. Care of refugees arriving in Tanzania post-1990 will fall under the
auspices of UNHCR and her implementing partners. Security in refugee areas will be
the responsibility of the Tanzanian government, and refugees are called upon to "obey
the laws of the land".

Under the Policy, durable solutions to the presence and impact of refugees in Tanzania
is voluntary repatriation enforced through (i) tripartite agreements between neighboring
countries and the establishment of safety zones in countries of origin; (ii) regulated
encampment 50km from borders; and (iii) the promotion of peace and reconciliation in
camps.

Restrictions on refugees in Tanzania have become stricter in recent years as a result of
the perceived negative impact of refugees. The recent removal of the regulation
allowing refugees to move up to 4 km from refugee camps has reduced the refugees
ability to collect firewood, obtain additional food and income, and to visit refugees in
other camps. Local integration of refugees is no longer an option; and the multiplicity of
actors involved in implementing the refugee policy at local levels is adversely affecting
refugees169.

Under the policy, the government allows the provision of education in accordance with
curricula used in the refugees countries of origin, and the international community is
encouraged to secure teaching materials and take responsibility for post-primary
education. Vocational education is given priority so that upon return to their country of
origin refugees can be self-employed. The policy also allows small income-generating
activities (IGA) to be undertaken only within the camps themselves (and by implication
the designated refugee settlements).

The policy also regulates the position and size of refugee camps. In order to minimize
environmental destruction and to provide "efficient service delivery, management and
monitoring" camps shall not accommodate more than 50,000 people, and should be at
least 13 km apart. A plot with a maximal size of 35m 2 will be temporarily provided to
refugee households within camps to build a shelter and to plant a kitchen garden. In
addition, the government in collaboration with other key stakeholders in the
international community will seek suitable mechanisms for compensating local
communities and residents for property and environmental damage damaged by
refugees.

168
      National Refugee Policy, MHA, 2003
169
      UNHCR 2003 Protection Report

                                           161
Social and Gender Assessment


 Refugee Statistics
Tanzania hosts Africas largest concentration of refugees, totaling approximately 1
million encamped and settled refugees as a result of chronic instability in the GLR,
particularly of Tanzanias western neighbors170. Tanzania hosts over 600,000 mainly
Burundian and Congolese encamped refugees171 living in approximately 15 refugee
camps in the north-west of the country. These refugees are referred to as the "New
Caseload Refugees". UNHCR, supported by implementing UN and NGO partners, has
responsibility for provision of all goods and services in these camps.

In 2002, most Rwandan refugees in camps were repatriated. Last year, 37,000
encamped Burundians were repatriated. This process is ongoing172. On the other hand,
refugees are still arriving in Tanzania from Kivu provinces in DRC (150,000 in 2003
plus a further influx in June and July 2004), and from Burundi (7,500 in 2003) 173. In
Kibondo District, 5 refugee camps house 95,235 new caseload refugees174.

Another group of refugees, referred to as "Old Caseload Refugees", exists in Tanzania.
These Burundians refugees arrived in the early 1970s. They were provided land and
community facilities in 3 large settlements in central Tanzania. They are now self-
sufficient and receive GoT services in the same manner as Tanzanian communities.
Like encamped refugees, their movement outside the Settlements is restricted. The
GoT Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible for the old caseload refugees. The
refugees themselves are responsible for their own livelihood and survival. Social and
security services and infrastructure are provided by the GoT as for Tanzanian
communities. Even after 32 years, these Burundians are still considered refugees who
will eventually be repatriated.

In 2003, the GoT reported close to 200,000 old caseload Burundian refugees living in
Ulyankulu Settlement in Urambo District (47,000175); Mishamo Settlement (48,000) and
in Katumba Settlement (100,000) in Mpanda District. The GoT also estimates that
additional old caseload Burundian refugees may be living in scattered Tanzanian
villages.

 Impact of Encamped Refugees in Tanzania
The Foreword to The National Refugee Policy176 frames the policy around the
perceived negative impact of refugees in Tanzania on economic development, internal
and external security, the environment, and the provision of services. Although
Tanzania has been hosting refugees for almost 50 years and initially adopted an open
door policy, the perceived negative impact of refugees has created tension within
Tanzania at all levels of government and segments of Tanzanian society177. Tension
also exist between Tanzania and neighboring countries as a result of countries from
which refugees originate accusing Tanzania of harboring rebels, causing Tanzania to
be reluctant to assume political risks for refugees, and to adopt a policy of repatriation
and to increase military deployment in western border areas.

Deterioration of internal security is also blamed on the presence of refugees. In Kagera
and Kigoma Regions, criminal activity has risen, and at times refugees are involved.
170
    UNHCR 2002. DRAFT: Summary Report on HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care, Support and Treatment
Program Implementation in Refugee Operation in Western Tanzania from the Year 1997 To-Date.
171
    UNHCR 2003. Population, Morbidity and Mortality Statistics
172
    UNHCR 2003. Annual Protection Report
173
    UNHCR 2003. Annual Protection Report
174
    UNHCR 2004. Quarterly Report July 2004
175
    MHA 2004. Statistics, April 2004
176
    MHA 2003. The National Refugee Policy
177
    Centre for the Study of Forced Migration, 2003. Impact of Presence of Refugees in North-Western
Tanzania

                                               162
                                                                          TANZANIA Country Report


Such insecurity in some refugee areas has lead to loss of property for local Tanzanians
and displacement from remote villages to areas close to the highway, resulting in
reduced agricultural productivity. On the other hand, the presence of refugees and
relatively affluent staff of refugee agencies has lead to an increase in local revenue,
availability of goods, local business, trade and housing markets - refugee agencies
purchase of local goods and produce. However, local people report that they receive
little benefit and have suffered due to increased prices.

Initially, the presence of refugees had serious impacts on the environment in terms of
deforestation, water pollution, soil degradation and erosion, and depletion of wildlife.
However, since 1996, environmental degradation has been minimal and refugee
agencies have taken measures to encourage re-afforestation, protect game, introduce
good agronomic practices, and to educate refugees and the local population on
environmental protection and conservation. Still the need of each of the 600,000
encamped refugees for 1.5 to 2.0 kg of firewood per person per day puts heavy
demands on this natural resource.

The presence of refugees has in essence had little real negative impact on the poorly
constructed and maintained infrastructure in north-western Tanzania. In fact, refugee
agencies in the region regularly fund the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads,
bridges and airstrips. This assistance has allowed increases in passenger transport in
the region, as well as increases of commercial traffic.

On the whole, health services in areas affected by encamped refugees has benefited
from the presence of refugees through training of health staff, rehabilitation and
expansion of health facilities, improved services and equipment, and the availability of
drugs provided by refugee agencies. Tanzanians also have access to quality refugee
facilities. Negative impacts include the perception that refugees exacerbate the spread
of HIV and the occupancy of 20-30 percent of district hospital beds by refugee cases.

The presence of refugees has placed a burden on local administration, judicial
services, and the police, although District administration has received considerable
assistance from UNHCR and refugee agencies in order to expedite their duties more
effectively. Assistance to the police from UNHCR has increased police presence and
capability to maintain law and order in and around refugee camps.

 HIV/AIDS Amongst Refugees
 HIV/AIDS Prevalence in Refugee Camps in Tanzania
In refugee camps in north-western Tanzania, HIV prevalence ranges from 2 to 10
percent, which is lower that in the surrounding Tanzanian population178. UNHCR
reports that in 2003, 5.41 percent of the refugee population was HIV+ in these camps.
The HIV prevalence in refugee women (7.01 percent) is higher than in men (5.03
percent)179. STI prevalence, as measured by Candida infection, is also lower than the
local population (6 percent). Therefore, there is a need to focus programs on refugees
at high risk and on groups bridging Tanzanian and refugee populations.

Speigel (2003) 180 reports that these refugees may have an increased risk of HIV
infection due to poverty, idleness, feelings of hopelessness and powerlessness,
disruption of social structures and of health services, exposure to sexual violence,
prostitution, harmful and risky practices, and false perception ­ "that refugees bring

178
    Spiegel 2003. HIV/AIDS in refugee camps: Kenya and Tanzania. ­ Mission Report
179
    HIV prevalence from blood donation figures - 6.91 percent from VCT testing; 5.4 percent from ANC
patients - UNHCR 2003. PMTCT Evaluation: Proceeding Report Note, figures from UNHCR vary between
data sources)
180
    Speigel 2003

                                                163
Social and Gender Assessment


AIDS with them to local communities". Speigel comments that refugee women and
youth are particularly vulnerable. However, thorough studies have not been performed
to verify these assumptions.

 Programs in Refugee Camps
UNHCR is responsible for meeting the basic needs of encamped refugees in Tanzania,
through provision of funding, policies and program support. UNHCR works through UN
and NGO partners. HIV/AIDS activities are well coordinated, and mainstreamed and
integrated into all refugee programs and sectors. UNHCR also supports a Sexual and
Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) program, as well as programs that encourage the
involvement of women in decision-making.

The UNHCR Strategic Plan and Policy on HIV/AIDS 2002-4 states that HIV/AIDS
prevention and mitigation is an essential component of refugee protection. Protection,
prevention, care and treatment, surveillance, monitoring and evaluation - plus STI
treatment, condom distribution, safe blood, and universal precautions are incorporated
into UNHCR programs. Refugee programs should be in line with those in the host
country and with the country of the refugees origin.

Key features of UNHCR programs for HIV/AIDS in north-western Tanzania181 include:
(i) participation of refugees in planning and information delivery; (ii) youth programs
and centers, which provide training, activities and support for youth; (iii) peer education;
(iv) PMTCT pilot programs; (v) school-based programs; (vi) VCT; (vii) treatment and
care; (viii) condom promotion; (ix) supplementary feeding programs for PLWHAs; (x)
STI and tuberculosis programs.

Despite the comprehensive nature of UNHCRs HIV/AIDS programs in north-western
Tanzanias refugee camps, significant behavior change has not resulted182, Burns and
Speigel (2003) identified several elements of the current programming that could be
improved to better promote behavior change. These included targeted IEC materials
and awareness campaigns; better selection and motivation of peer educators;
promotion of anti-AIDS clubs; involvement of the host population; and more defined
monitoring and evaluation.

In concert with the TACAIDS assessment highlighted in Section 3.2, UNHCR
undertook an identical assessment in 4 refugee camps183. Although health care
facilities were found to be adequate, condoms184 freely available, and HIV/AIDS
awareness high, that assessment highlighted several factors that were further
investigated in this assessment. These included:

        Stigma, discrimination, cultural norms and religious beliefs against condoms
        were reported to hinder behavior change
        Female participation in programs is low
        IEC materials are insufficient
        High demand for VCT services places a strain on staff and reagents
        IGAs not available
        STI education is still needed and contact tracing is limited
        Material support for orphans is insufficient


181
    UNHCR 2002. DRAFT: Summary Report On HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care, Support And Treatment
Program Implementation In Refugee Operations In Western Tanzania From The Year 1997 To Date
182
    Burns L and Spiegel P 2003. Southern Africa Workshop on HIV/AIDS and Refugees
183
    UNHCR 2004. Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA Plan of Action - Lugufu I and II Camps, and
Lukole A and B Camps ­ using the UNHCR assessment tool
184
    480-510/1000 population / month distributed in Lugufu Camp

                                                 164
                                                                            TANZANIA Country Report


        Lack of motivation for volunteer home-based carers and peer educators,
        leading to poor service delivery in these activities
        PLWHAs have come out and are taking part in community education but there
        are no post-test clubs
        Lack innovative interventions
        Limited supply of female condoms
        Early marriages and teenage pregnancies are high.

 HIV/AIDS Prevalence in Refugee Settlements in Tanzania
Prevalence figures for HIV/AIDS in designated refugee settlements are not available.
Figures from the Districts in which these settlements are located can provide a guide to
HIV infection. For example, in Urambo District, in which Ulyankulu Settlement is
located, HIV prevalence is between 13.2 percent in blood donors and 17 percent in
people presenting at VCT centers185. In Ulyankulu Designated Refugee Settlement,
the Health Centre Clinical Officer reported a high prevalence of STIs, as well as several
patients with clinical AIDS (See Chapter 2).

 HIV/AIDS Programs in the Studied Refugee Settlements
The HIV/AIDS programs operating in Refugee Settlements are the same as those
serving the Tanzanian population throughout country - as discussed above.




185
   Urambo District Medical Office 2004. Taarifa ya Kudhibiti Ukimwi Wilaya ya Urambo Kuanzia: Januari ­
Juni 2004

                                                 165
Social and Gender Assessment



CHAPTER 4: SETTLED REFUGEES IN ULYANKULU DESIGNATED SETTLEMENT

The fieldwork among settled old caseload Burundian refugees was performed in
Ulyankulu Designated Settlement, which is located in central Tanzania.

                       CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SETTLEMENT
Ulyankulu Designated Settlement, covering an area of 1,260 km2 of dry savannah in
Urambo District, Tabora Region in Central Tanzania, 96km west of Tabora on a poor
road. The Settlement is divided into 3 local government wards, comprising 11 villages.
The nearest town outside the Settlement is Songambele-Uyowa, 19 km to the north-
west.

Approximately 47,000 Burundian refugees live in Ulyankulu Settlement (see Annex 3
for details), many of whom fled Burundi in 1971 or 1972 as a result of inter-ethnic
conflict. There are equal numbers of males and females, and over 60% of the refugee
population is under 17 years. Ulyankulu Settlement is also home to some 6,000
Tanzanian nationals186. A large number of Tanzanians regularly visit Ulyankulu
Settlement (i) to purchase grains, tobacco, hides, and diamonds at the biweekly Kaswa
market; (ii) to provide services, including sexual services; or (iii) for relaxation and
shopping.

The context of Ulyankulu Settlement is presented in Table 1 below:

Table 8            Characteristics of Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement

       Characteristics                                          Description
Livelihoods
        Burundian refugees            Mostly agriculturalists and petty traders
        Tanzanians                    Farming, religious activities, health care provision,
                                      education, civil service, mining and commercial
                                      activities
Cash Crops                            Tobacco, maize, beans, groundnuts, cassava, rice ­
                                      major supplier for Region
Market                                Kaswa Trading Centre- twice weekly- attracts traders
                                      from other region ­ prices set by traders ­ influx of
                                      people to Settlement, including sex workers
Poverty                               Wide-spread in refugee population, especially in dry
                                      season. Infertile soil, poor quality and limited water
                                      supply, and limited opportunities due to restriction to
                                      Settlement. Powerlessness as a result of refugee status
                                      is also a factor
Social Services
       Health                         1 health centre, 6 public and 3 private dispensaries
                                      Limited services (no X-ray, surgery or blood transfusion)
                                      Frequent lack of supplies
                                      Malaria, gastro-intestinal conditions, meningitis common
           Education                  Tanzanian system ­ 15 primary and 1 secondary
                                      schools
                                      Includes HIV/AIDS education from Grade 5
                                      Primary schools ­ overcrowded and poor standard
                                      Secondary ­ distant and cost prohibitive for some
      Security                        One Police station and village volunteers ­Songo songo
Governance                            MHA Settlement Officer in-charge

186
      Ulyankulu Local Government Office 2002. National Census

                                                  166
                                                                             TANZANIA Country Report


        Characteristics                                 Description
                                 GoT local government system
HIV,    STI       and       AIDS No HIV prevalence figures for Settlement - prevalence
Prevalence                       in District is 9.8%.
                                 6 clinical cases of AIDS seen Jan-June 2004
                                 STIs high prevalence
HIV/AIDS Programs                Recently established VCT and STI services
                                 Treatment of STIs and OIs ­ drug supply problematic
                                 Ad hoc awareness by multiple actors
                                 Village HIV/AIDS Committees
                                 Condoms availability limited to health centers and 2
                                 outlets

      FINDINGS - ULYANKULU SETTLEMENT OLD CASELOAD BURUNDIAN
                              REFUGEES
Eight clusters of factors were found to influence the transmission and infection of HIV
within the Burundian refugees in Ulyankulu Designated Settlement, and between the
refugees and non-refugees. The factors influencing transmission include high-risk and
promiscuous sexual behavior, knowledge-attitude-behavior regarding sex and
HIV/AIDS, alcohol consumption and idleness, poverty in women, movement in and out
of the settlement, traditional practices, and inadequacy of health-related services. Each
cluster of factors will be discussed individually below.

 Promiscuous Sexual Behavior
Promiscuous sexual behavior187 involves sexual activity outside of marriage (or
permanent relationships) often with multiple partners. In Ulyankulu Settlement, adults
and Kaswa Trading Centre leaders it was reported that up to 90 percent of the youth
"failed to abstain" and engaged in promiscuous sexual behavior - despite being well
informed about HIV/AIDS - and 50 percent of married people were "unfaithful"
engaging in promiscuous behavior either occasionally or frequently. Condom usage is
low, amongst settled refugees except in male youth who do use condoms although
inconsistently. This is confirmed by the high STI prevalence in the Settlement reported
by the Health Centre188, indicating that high risk sexual practices. This sexual activity is
likely to enhance the spread of HIV in the Ulyankulu population.

The community members in Ulyankulu Settlement identified the following factors as
influencing the level of unfaithfulness and failure to abstain:

         Men enjoy the pleasure of sex, saying it is "like a hobby", as a result of their
         human nature and bodily desire, especially amongst men when they have
         money.
         Burundians were reported by many Tanzanians living and working in the
         Settlement to "like sex so much" and to engage in promiscuous sex much more
         than Tanzanians.
         Women and local leaders said alcohol availability and alcohol consumption at
         gatherings such as bars, discos, and the refreshment hall influenced high risk
         sexual behavior.
         All refugee adults said idleness contributed to a higher incidence of
         promiscuous sexual activity in the dry season.



187
    Wikopedia on-line encyclopedia definition: promiscuous sexual behavior means relatively unselective,
casual and indiscriminate sex that is not within the framework of a steady sexual relationship
188
    Ulyankulu Clinical Officer, personal communication

                                                  167
Social and Gender Assessment


        All members of the community reported the number of women willing to engage
        in sexual acts - either as sex workers, or to barter sex for household
        necessities, money, a good time, favors or trinkets.
        The bi-weekly Kaswa market on Wednesday and Saturday in the dry season
        attracts many traders, buyers, sellers, local people as well as prostitutes.
        Alcohol consumption and sexual liaisons are numerous at these times.

The presence of commercial and casual sex workers189 in the Settlement ­ as either
permanent residents, seasonal residents at the time of the tobacco harvest, or visitors
for the Saturday market - is also a factor influencing the transmission of HIV. This
group includes female youth who engage in sex for spending money or gifts, such as
kitenge or other clothes, lotion, alcohol; and women in poverty who resort to sex to
meet their basic needs.

Male clients and female sex workers reported that condom usage was not high in either
commercial or casual sex acts. Men always decided on condom use. Even commercial
sex workers reported that condom use was solely the preference of their male clients
as these women wanted to appease their clients in order to earn an income or to meet
their desires for small gifts. Very few female sex workers interviewed, let alone women
who engaged in casual sex, could negotiate with their clients or male partners- the men
set the price, and decided on condom usage. See Case Study 1 (Annex 5) of sex
workers and a client.

 Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices regarding HIV/AIDS and Sex
Knowledge of the causes of HIV transmission was fair in refugees in Ulyankulu. It was
highest in late primary and secondary students ­ both girls and boys - and in youth,
particularly males, and youth from the Trading Centre. Knowledge of HIV/AIDS was
lower in women, particularly older women and women living in the rural villages in the
Settlement. Knowledge about mother-to-child transmission was limited in all adult
groups. Misconceptions existed regarding the cause of HIV transmission, with tsetse fly
bite being quoted by a few adult refugee women and men interviewed.

Further, there was a belief by some religious local Tanzanians and Burundian refugees
that AIDS was a curse of "Shitani" ­ the devil. Or that only people who were not
"saved"190 were the ones infected by HIV. Others believed that turning to "the word of
God" was the only way to halt the spread of HIV. For example, the Pentecostal pastor
felt youth could abstain by reading the word of God (1 Corinthians 6:18-19 ­ "Flee
fornication ­ fornication is a sin against your own body ­ your body is the temple of the
Holy Spirit").

With regard to the prevention of HIV transmission, most people said faithfulness in
marriage and abstinence from sexual intercourse for youth was paramount. Only sex
workers, youth and secondary students quoted the use of condoms as a means of
preventing HIV transmission. When the researcher
raised the issue of condoms, many people said they    "The husband [is] living in a
had heard of condoms on the radio, in                 hopeless situation so the woman is
magazines/newspapers, or on the communal TV.          forced to go outside to seek for
Many women and rural male peasant farmers could       gain." Women aged approximately
recite: "Use condoms to protect you against
                                                      40 years in Kaswa Trading Centre
HIV/AIDS" - but they had no idea what a condom
looked like, or where and how to wear it. Other people quoted that condoms were
189
    CSW is a woman whose main livelihood is selling sex for money. The price, place and time are
negotiated with the client before the sex act. Casual sex worker is a woman who regularly engages sex for
pleasure and gain. She does not negotiate and demand a price in advance but expects the man to buy her
alcohol and at the end of the night or the "action" for him to give her something in appreciation
190
    Born-again Christians

                                                  168
                                                                               TANZANIA Country Report


against their Pentecostal and Catholic teachings and that they should not be promoted
­ one middle-aged refugee woman said: "Condoms should be banned from the entire
world" - as they encouraged "excessive" and "free" sexual activity. Some refugee men
said that condoms could not be trusted as they leak or burst, get stuck inside the
females vagina, or may even being deliberately filled with the HIV virus. Other men
and male youth quoted that condoms were too expensive, as illustrated in Case Study
1 in Annex 5. Not even casual female sex workers demand the use of condoms by their
partners as they said it is up to the man to decide. The researchers only found one out
of 10 sex workers interviewed in Kaswa Trading Centre who said she regularly used a
condom- See Case Study 3 in Annex 5. The only relationship in which women were
involved in decisions to use condoms was in youth educated in secondary school in
Kaswa Trading Centre.

Condoms are not readily available in the Settlement. Only the 6 health facilities, one
pharmacy and 2 kiosks in Kaswa Trading Centre sold or distributed condoms for a
population of 18,500 adults. In a survey done by the researchers of all permanent
kiosks and shops in Kaswa Trading Centre (approximately 25 shops and 3
pharmacies), the reason given for not selling condoms was that it is against their
religion. The bar at the only guest house in Ulyankulu Settlement, where most of the
visiting traders and officials stay, did not sell condoms because there was no money to
be made in selling them, although there were demands from clients.

The researcher found that condoms are not used with frequency or consistency by any
group. This coupled to the apparent complacency about promiscuous behavior, the
taboo associated with Burundians discussing sex in the household, the limited
availability of condoms, and negative attitudes to condoms creates a situation that
increases the vulnerable of the Ulyankulu refugees to infection with HIV, especially
women who have little negotiating power in sexual acts.

 Alcohol Availability
The availability of alcohol coupled with the consumption of excessive alcohol and
resulting drunkenness of men and women was said by the people in most focus groups
to be associated with promiscuous sexual behavior and with the spread of HIV. In
Ulyankulu Settlement, each village has several bars or mama ntilie191- there are 11 in
Kaswa Trading Centre. The availability of alcohol in these drinking places provides an
opportunity for men and women to gather socially. Frequent sexual partnering was
observed by researchers, and reported by community leaders and women, men and
youth at these places. Sex workers interviewed reported that these places were where
they obtained the majority of their clients.

Community members reported that drunkenness was a factor that leads to impaired
judgement in the decision to engage in sexual intercourse and was said to cause men
and women to forget the risks involved and to forget to use condoms. The highest
consumption of alcohol was reported in Kaswa Trading Centre the nights before market
days and during market days. These times also coincided with increased prices for sex
with sex workers, higher numbers of clients for sex workers, as well as increased
condom sales of condoms192.

Alcohol consumption as a factor influencing HIV transmission was linked to the influx of
outsiders who have money for the Kaswa markets, recreation and work, as well as to


191
    In Kaswa Trading Centre, 11 places exist that commercially sell alcohol (9 bars and mama ntilie and 2
local brew sites - with many sellers). One rural village, Usigala, in the Settlement with a dispersed rural
population of 5,954, sports 8 places selling alcohol (5 bars and 3 local brew places)
192
    Reported by the pharmacy in the town that sells condoms

                                                   169
Social and Gender Assessment


the idleness of refugee men during the dry season. These men were observed to
congregate around bars in the afternoons.

 Impact of Poverty on Women
The Settlement Officer, agriculture extension officer as well as members of both the
Kaswa and Usigala leaders reported that the refugees in Ulyankulu Settlement are
basically poor, small-scale farmers tilling infertile, rain-fed soils using traditional
techniques. Agriculture yields are low per hectare. The majority of households have
little opportunity to expand their incomes and struggle to meet their familys needs
because they are confined to the Settlement, and have little money to plant new seed
varieties . Against this background of overarching poverty (omaksikini), women appear
to suffer the brunt more than men. This is in part due to womens limited ability to make
decisions in the majority of households, and in their limited access and control of
resources and assets. In many cases, it was reported by women that husbands are
unable to provide for the woman or the children, either due to their economic and
livelihood circumstances, or because these men spend their money on alcohol and
women. In such cases, the woman must fend for the family using whatever means she
can, including bartering sex for resources, as shown in the text box opposite. Poor
women, including widows and married women, resort to sex for money or the goods on
an as needed basis to obtain money for school fees, government contributions, or
bribes for court processes; or to obtain food (meat or beans) for their children, clothes
or even a lift in a vehicle. Women engaged in these sexual activities without the
knowledge of their husbands. They said that if they had access to an income
generation activity (Which they requested the researchers to provide!), they would not
need to resort to bartering sex.

Other women, in particular young women and
adolescent girls from poor families, engage in sexual    "If a woman has nothing for gain,
activities in return for obtaining objects of desire ­   she thinks she can get something
clothes, lotion, spending money - that they would        from doing the sex act." Young
otherwise not have access to because their husbands      women in Kaswa Trading Centre
or their fathers are unable to provide, as by the quote
in the adjoining textbox. Some women and girls engage in sexual activities merely on a
promise of gifts, outings or money.

On analysis, the researchers concluded that high risk sexual behavior engaged by
women and adolescent girls in Ulyankulu Settlement was viewed as an opportunity for
gaining money, needed goods, or gifts. This opportunity presented itself in situations in
which men were seen or known to have money, such as traders at Saturday markets,
gold miners entering the Settlement for recreation on a Sunday, or men buying drinks
in a bar.

 Idleness in the Dry Season
In Ulyankulu, in the dry season agricultural activity comes to a halt for 90 percent of the
Settlements population, most of whom are farmers as a result of lack of water, poor
soils and the semi-arid climate. While women are still actively engaged in domestic
chores, adult men have little to do. Opportunities for work in the settlement at this time
of the year are few, especially for unskilled labor, and due to GoT regulations
movement outside the settlement in search of work is limited. While trade and the civil
service occupy a few refugees, the openings are extremely limited. To compensate,
adult men and male youth gather socially at bars in the afternoon and early evening.
Alcohol availability and consumption can lead to unplanned sexual unions.

Similarly, idleness is pronounced in male youth in the Settlement directly attributed to
lack of livelihood opportunities, particularly in the dry season as during the rainy season

                                           170
                                                                                      TANZANIA Country Report


most can find casual labor in the fields of others. Apart form the restriction on moving
outside the settlement ­ "problem is status of being a refugee ­ we cannot get out of
the settlement193"- youth cited lack of start-up capital for small scale enterprises ­ there
are no banks and micro-credit institutions in the settlement194, and the "temporary"
residential status of refugees would prohibit borrowing. Very few youth were able to
take tertiary study as most parents cannot even afford secondary school fees, and
restrictions are now placed on refugees studying outside of the Settlement.

On days when the market is not functioning, many male youth are seen hanging
around Kaswa, either in a coffee place or mama ntilies195 drinking coffee and alcohol
"conversing and exchanging ideas", such that in the early evening several youth drunk
can be seen. Female adult refugees say these youth talk about sex and watch females,
which in turn leads to them "practicing sex". On market days both male and female
youth can be seen roaming around just "to see the situation that prevails". In Kaswa
Trading Centre, an entertainment hall has been constructed, at which videos and
televisions are shown. Many youth cannot afford the entry fee to the Entertainment Hall
and so bars and coffee places are used to socialize.

 Movement In and Out of Settlement
Movement of Tanzanians into the Settlement and movement of refugees out of the
Settlement are also factors influencing the spread of HIV in the old caseload Burundian
refugee population. This movement is shown in a mobility map in Case Study 2, Annex
5.

The Kaswa market, held every Wednesday and Saturday, attracts people from
throughout Ulyankulu Settlement, local Tanzanian communities and traders from
Tabora, Urambo, Shinyanga, Mwenza and Kigoma Districts. The majority of traders are
men who come to the market to purchase beans, maize, groundnuts, and hides in bulk.
Male wholesale traders from outside the Settlement usually stay in Kaswa for 2 days,
arriving the night before the market and staying at least one night. Some female traders
buy grains and sell second-hand clothes. Burundian women from throughout the
Settlement also trade small quantities of fresh produce, and both refugee men and
women buy and sell second-hand clothing. Female commercial sex workers also travel
to the Saturday market, where they are reported to do good business from the traders
and local business men.

Refugees in the Kaswa Trading Centre
blamed these traders for bringing HIV/AIDS to       "HIV is not a wind that can travel and dump
the Settlement ­ see attached quotation-, as        down somewhere. [Outside] traders plant
they were reported to have money to spend           HIV and leave it here." Middle-aged,
on women and alcohol, and to engage in              educated man in the Kaswa community
much casual sex activity during their weekly        meeting said, and was strongly supported
stays in the Settlement. As the traders have        by others
money, they are targeted by local girls willing
to barter sex for gain and by commercial sex workers as good business prospects. The
traders give their favorite girls gifts and show them a "good time" for a few days each
week. Also traders are reputed to use sex as a form of bribe ­ for example, they may
offer local women 10,000 shillings to buy their grain but add on 20,000 /- extra for one
sex "action"; or they may ask young local female grain scouts to repay any money lost
in transacting for grain in the form of sex.

193
    Male youth aged about 23 years old in a focus group of male and female youth aged 18-25 years
194
    Rotating credit schemes were not reported in the Settlement. Where capital was provided it came from
siblings who had an opportunity to travel outside the settlement for work or further education
195
      Bars constructed often of local material specifically for the provision of alcohol, primarily local brew

                                                        171
Social and Gender Assessment


Tobacco traders frequent the Settlement between May and July to purchase harvested
tobacco, spending up to several weeks in the Settlement, trading for tobacco, drinking
and socializing in a similar manner to the market traders. Local Tanzanians living and
working in the Settlement, as well as refugee inhabitants, reported that commercial sex
workers follow the tobacco traders. Refugee girls also engage in sex with these
tobacco traders and refugee men interact with the transient sex workers from outside
the Settlement. Even though some of the sex workers were reported by clients to use
condoms, many do not as the traders and refugee men usually refuse to wear
condoms as they dull the pleasure of the sex act. Thus, the researchers predict that the
presence of these traders with money and the sex workers heightens the transmission
of HIV.

Two other groups of men from outside the Settlement were reported by Kaswa
community members to influence the transmission of HIV in Ulyankulu ­ the miners
from Nsungwa gold mines near Uyowa village just outside the Settlement and road
construction workers working to construct a 52 km stretch of the Ulyankulu to Tabora
road. Miners spend recreation time on Sundays drinking in bars in the Settlement,
where they reportedly engage in sex with local women. The Ulyankulu Health Centre
reports that the several of their AIDS cases have been miners. Road construction
workers reportedly compete with local Burundian and Tanzanian men, taking their
women. Some road workers have semi-permanent local (refugee) girlfriends, others
have had affairs with married women from the Settlement, and others use casual and
commercial sex workers. These groups of men are attractive to sex workers and local
girls as they have regular salaries.

Burundian refugees also move out of the Settlement at times, either illegally or with
permission, to access health care, purchase merchandise, or for income generating
opportunities. Some refugee women blamed the movement of men out of the
Settlement as introducing HIV to the Settlement. They reportedly leave the Settlement
"for gain" but instead find a girlfriend while they are away. On return, they may pass
HIV or other STIs onto their wives.

 Cultural Practices
Several cultural practices were reported to contribute to the transmission of HIV
amongst the Burundian refugees in the Settlement, and between the Burundians and
the local Tanzanians. While traditional wife inheritance does not occur on a large scale
any more, religious and community leaders confided that a corrupted form of this
practice still exists in which the dead husbands brother engages in unprotected sex
with his widow, often on the threat of removing support from her. As the woman may
not have any other avenue of support, she is powerless to refuse these sexual
advances.

Changes in traditional practices, such as youth respecting their elders and the norms of
Burundian society were also reported by older Burundian men and women to influence
the transmission of HIV in the refugee population in Ulyankulu Settlement. Youth were
reported to roam around town, drinking alcohol, engaging in sex before marriage, and
not listening to advice on HIV/AIDS. These older folk believe that HIV is spread
amongst the youth because they are no longer "respectful".

The Settlement were poorly informed about HIV/AIDS, but reported using universal
precautions in treating patients. They treat many cases of STIs, and if they suspected
someone is infected with HIV, they refer them to the Health Centre for western
treatment.




                                          172
                                                                              TANZANIA Country Report


 Limited Health Services
The health services in Ulyankulu Settlement (six dispensaries and one health centre)
are provided by the GoT to the standards of similar locations occupied by Tanzanians
in other areas of the country. Refugees in the Settlement report that the dispensaries
are more like "first-aid posts" offering limited services and serious cases are required
travel to Urambo District Hospital - 1 hour distance by car, if transport was available, or
over 5 hours by bicycle with a patient balanced on the back. In addition, drug and
condom shortages were reported to be common.

Community education and awareness was inadequate in Ulyankulu Settlement ­ this
factor alone has a significant impact on HIV and STI transmission. Various cadres of
community educators have been trained by different NGOs at District level but in most
cases awareness raising activities for the community still does not exist, except from a
seminar about once every year. The reasons were the lack of incentive or payment,
limited time to perform the voluntary tasks required, or lack of transportation to move
around, lack of educational materials, and no follow-up or supervision. Further, in some
cases, the knowledge of the educators assessed by the researchers was minimal, and
the messages they deliver to the community incomplete and not fully consistent with
GoT policy. Condoms are not promoted in most cases due to religious beliefs. As a
result of this inadequacy, some refugees in the Settlement, particularly women and
rural adults, exhibit limited knowledge of HIV/AIDS, and the prevention of transmission,
including condoms ­ see Case Study 4 in Annex 5 for the case of the Community
Development / HIV/AIDS Officer for Ulyankulu Division.

In Ulyankulu Settlement, some administrative wards had HIV/AIDS Committees in
place. These committees were made up of 4 adults who had been trained in HIV/AIDS
prevention by designated local NGOs in Urambo town. In the village of Usigala, where
these committees were investigated, 2 Committee members reported:

        Knowledge of those trained was good (this was contrary to the findings of the
        researchers).
        No public awareness campaigns had been undertaken even though the
        committee had been in place for nearly one year.
        The reasons given included for lack of action included: being unsure of their
        duties, lack of facilitation with transport, lack of time, and no motivation.

Condoms were available from each GOT health unit, but clients had to ask for the
condoms in person, and supplies often ran out - for example the Kanindo Dispensary
when visited had run out of condoms 2 weeks before the researchers visit.

A special STI Management Unit had been set up 6 months prior to the assessment in
Ulyankulu. The clinical officer in charge of the program reported the prevalence of
syndromic STIs was high in men and women (although no figures were available).
Unfortunately, when the researchers visited the Ulyankulu Health Centre, they had
already run out of STI drugs, and community contact tracing had not been successful.

Two days prior to the departure of the researchers from Ulyankulu Settlement, a
government VCT centre was opened in the Ulyankulu Health Centre. From the
research undertaken in the settlement, testing facilities are needed, especially
according to married women who expressed a desire to know their sero-status so they
would know how to live their lives (See Case Study 14, Annex 5). Twenty clients
presented for testing on the first day of the centers operation. In the opinion of health
workers, the rush to open the VCT Centre on Uhuru Torch Day196 resulted in
196
    Uhuru Torch Day is when the Presidents message for the people is communicated by the government
officials to the people. It is a day when school classrooms, health centre ward, water facilities etc are
opened

                                                  173
Social and Gender Assessment


shortcomings, such as the laboratory technician, who sees the client as well as
performs the test, being unclear on procedures; no-one designated or specifically
trained on pre- and post-test counseling (although the Clinical Officer in-charge of the
STI Centre has some training); potential overload of the one laboratory technician who
also has to perform all tests other than HIV; and long turn around time for results as no
additional staff had been allocated to the VCT Centre.
 Positive Measures Being Undertaken in Ulyankulu Settlement
In line with the above factors that influence the increased spread of HIV in and around
the refugee Settlement, there are many positive features in place in the Settlement that
contribute to, or potentially contribute to, the prevention or reduction in HIV
transmission, as listed below.

1. The local government engages in poverty reduction by undertaking annual planning
   exercises for the development of the Settlement. In addition, the Agriculture
   Extension / Veterinary Officer has tried to introduce techniques for improving yield
   and hence income of the refugee farmers.
2. The Ulyankulu Health Centre offers a STI Centre with trained staff for the
   syndromic diagnosis, treatment and management of STIs. As a STI is a cofactor for
   HIV infection, effective management and control of STIs is an important prevention
   measure.
3. A VCT Centre opened in late July in Ulyankulu Health Centre providing free testing,
   diagnosis and counseling.
4. The rudimentary foundation of effective community HIV education is in place in
   Ulyankulu Settlement. Peer educators have been trained and each village has an
   AIDS Committee of 4 trained members. Support NGOs197 are available in the
   District to undertake community awareness and training of educators. Ward
   executives and church leaders stated that they provide education to their
   communities. However, there are shortcomings as discussed in the preceding
   sections.
5. From Grade 5 in primary school and all secondary, students receive education in
   HIV/AIDS. The students interviewed were well informed.
6. Condoms are available in the Settlement in health care facilities for free, when in
   stock, and retail in a few outlets in Kaswa Trading Centre. Unfortunately, many
   people are not aware of condoms efficacy and how to use condoms.




197
      Opendo Choir and YADEK

                                          174
                                                                 TANZANIA Country Report



               CHAPTER 5: ENCAMPED REFUGEES ­ KIBONDO DISTRICT

The fieldwork among encamped new caseload Burundian refugees was performed in
Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps in Kibondo District in North-western Tanzania.

                    CHARACTERISTICS OF THE REFUGEE CAMPS
Two of the five refugee camps in Kibondo District, in Kigoma Region of Western
Tanzania, were chosen for this assessment: (i) Mtendeli Camp - a large semi-
permanent slum-like city with small poor-quality houses crowded in a ghetto-like
situation and arranged in blocks, near the Tanzanian town of Kasanda, some 15 km
from Kibondo town. (ii) Kanembwa camp - a smaller camp of Burundian new caseload
refugees, with even worse living conditions than Mtendeli Camp, and located near the
village of Mukugwa-Kilemba. Both camps were established in 1994 and lie close to the
main highway that feeds Burundi.

The 5 refugee camps in Kibondo District host a total of 95,235, mainly Burundian,
refugees198. The two refugee camps in Kibondo District selected for this assessment -
Mtendeli Camp and Kanembwa Camp - house a total of 31,768 and 15,756 new
caseload Burundian refugees respectively (total of 47,524 refugees) 199. The majority of
the population is under the age of 18 years (58 percent in Mtendeli Camp and 47
percent in Kanembwa Camp). Only 34 percent and 28 percent of the camp
populations, respectively, are adults in the productive age group.

Table 9        Characteristics of Kanembwa and Mtendeli Camps
       Characteristics                                 Description
Livelihoods                   Not allowed to engage outside the camp, limited
                              opportunities include work for NGOs and UN agencies,
                              petty trade, teachers, health workers, brewing alcohol
                              Prostitution in neighboring towns
Service Provision             UNHCR and partners for health, primary education,
                              water, food, protection and community services
Food                          WFP provides pulses, oil, salt and maize flour for all
                              households
                              Supplementary feeding available
                              Only 60% of recommended ration at time of study
Health Care                   Hospital, dispensaries, community health workers
                              Well-trained and well-motivated staff
                              Well equipped and stocked
                              Available to host community as well as refugees
                              Malaria, respiratory conditions and AIDS (5% of deaths)
                              Malnutrition of children
Poverty                       Material and non-material (feelings of hopelessness)
                              District is poverty-stricken
Governance                    Camp Commandant from GoTs MHA oversees camp
                              UNHCR is responsible for protection and service
                              provision
HIV,     STI    and    AIDS Figures for all camps in North Western Tanzania:
Prevalence                         HIV- 5.4% in blood donors and 6.9% in those
                                       attending VCT Centers ­ inconsistent figures
                                   5% deaths in camps attributed to AIDS
                                   STI ­ 10,000 cases in 2003


198
      UNHCR 16 July 2004
199
      UNHCR figures of 16 July 2004

                                          175
Social and Gender Assessment


     Characteristics                                      Description
HIV/AIDS Programs                   UNHCR and partners run a well-coordinated program
                                    VCT, PMTCT, in- and out-patient treatment for OIs,
                                    STIs
                                    Awareness-raising - Peer education, drama, seminars,
                                    schools, youth centers
                                    Condoms readily available
                                    SGBV program

      FINDINGS - ENCAMPED NEW CASELOAD BURUNDIAN REFUGEES
Six clusters of factors were found to influence the transmission and infection of HIV
within the Burundian refugees in the two refugees camps studied in Kibondo District,
and between the refugees and Tanzanian workers and host community. The factors
influencing transmission include (i) encampment, which leads to (ii) poverty, particularly
impacting women; (iii) a feeling of powerlessness; and (iv) disintegration of family and
social structure. Other factors include (v) celebrations and alcoholism; (vi) gender
disparities; and (vii) limited awareness, attitudes to condoms, sex and sexuality. All of
which contribute to the high risk sexual behavior that directly leads to the spread of
HIV.

 Displacement and Encampment
Encampment is the end result of the Burundian refugees fleeing the insecurity in
Burundi between the Tutsi and the Hutu ethnic groups in the 1990s and their
subsequent displacement. Encampment, with its congestion, restriction of movement
and dependency on the provision of aid, creates a feeling of hopelessness, lack of
control over ones life and low self-esteem and dignity in the lives of many of the new
caseload Burundian refugees living in Mtendeli and Kanembwa camps ­ as expressed
in Case Study 5 in Annex 5, in which refugees liken themselves to cattle and pancakes.
These feelings of frustration were expressed by adult men and women, as well as male
and female youth, all of whom reported that drinking alcohol, socializing, and playing
games as methods for relieving this psychological stress. Sex was also cited by adult
refugees, particularly men, as a "stress-reliever" and a comfort from the "psychological
pressures that torment our [refugees] lives on a routine basis."

Overcrowding in itself was reported to contribute to sexual relations outside of
marriage. The refugees, particularly in Mtendeli Camp, live in crowded, conditions in
small, temporary stick and mud houses set out in blocks like a military barrack. The
close proximity of the houses leads to a lack of privacy. Both refugee women and men
stated that this in turn leads to men and women establishing intimate relationships
outside their marriages that may involve sex. Sex may be simply to relieve the
monotony, especially for men. But the proximity of houses also allows women to barter
sex for additional economic support in near anonymity of the crowded conditions. Such
sexual acts were reported by women and men, to be hurried, occurring when the
opportunity presents, and without any thought of using condoms.

Further, the living conditions in each house are crowded, which means that children
see adults engaged in sexual intercourse. Adults reported that children and youth then
copy adults.

Another result of encampment is the official restriction of refugee movement outside
the camp, including rescinding the 4km rule200. This has meant that illegal but justified
movement outside the camp increases the vulnerability of refugees to danger,

200
   The 4km rule allows refugees to move outside the camp within a 4 km radius to collect firewood, and
additional food, and casual daily work

                                                 176
                                                                                TANZANIA Country Report


harassment, rape and defilement of both men and women, as indicated in Case Study
6 in Annex 5.

Encampment and displacement has also contributed to the breakdown of families and
social norms, idleness and drunkenness, as discussed below.

 Gender, Poverty and Powerlessness
The encamped refugees are poor, by their own definition - this poverty has many
dimensions, both economic and social. According to most stakeholders consulted in
the camps, women are impacted most severely. All adult respondents, including
refugees, service providers, NGO and UNHCR workers, reported that women engage
in sexual liaisons for economic reasons. Adult women and female youth both report
that as a result of their poverty and there being no income generation or livelihood
opportunities available, they had no choice but to barter or sell sex as a means of
improving the quality of their lives and that of their children, and to meet their own basic
economic needs. These women barter sex for a little money for clothes and other
items.

Women were also reported by camp workers, other women and youth to barter sex for
food. In the refugee camps, the quality, quantity and variety of food provided by the
World Food Program (WFP) is insufficient to meet the nutritional needs of refugees - 60
percent of recommended ration was provided at the time of the researchers visit 201. In
addition, refugees have few opportunities to meet their additional food and other basic
needs as livelihood opportunities are extremely limited. These two factors combined
with the traditional gender role of Burundian women to provide for the domestic needs
of the family (as noted in Case Study 6, Annex 5) creates a situation in which women
engage in high risk sexual activity in order to provide additional food for the family.

Sex bartering occurs frequently in the camps, particularly between those women or
adolescent girls who are poor and those men who are better off and can provide goods
or cash in return for sex. Refugee women were said by men to favor Tanzanian men,
who were seen as having money as a result of their employment. The Tanzanian men
cited included NGO workers, GoT workers, police, army, and militia men. It was also
reported in Kanembwa Camp that on occasions, mothers encourage their daughters to
"make friends" with men in paid employment so the family can gain - these girls are told
"to come home with sugar, meat etc." Single mothers and adolescent girls, both in and
out of school, were said to engage in sex in return for as little as a "pair of slippers"
(simple, open rubber footwear). Schoolgirls were reported by other schoolgirls, male
youth, and adult refugees to barter sex with male teachers for good marks. Other
refugee women took "temporary husbands" for gain or engaged in casual sex work.

Much of the sexual activity involved in bartering sex is high-risk - different partners
outside of permanent relationships without use of condoms. All female Burundian
refugees interviewed in the actual camps at Mtendeli and Kanembwa reported that they
were unable to negotiate with men about the sex act ­ about using condoms, nor
when, where or how the act takes place. Although some commercial refugee sex
workers in neighboring towns reported that they were able to negotiate the use of
condoms on their clients ­ See Case Study 7.

Some women, mainly widows, brew local beer as a source of income. These women
were reported by male customers to engage in sexual activity with customers for
money if approached. This brewing activity also contributes to the problems with
drunkenness and the associated increased risk of unprotected sex, multiple sex
partners, and risk of transmission or infection with HIV, discussed below.

201
      This 60% ration was reported as due to the usual supply chain problems that WFP has globally

                                                    177
Social and Gender Assessment



Marrying a daughter off for a bride-price was another way for parents to raise funds.
The researchers found that where daughters are married off early, the parents give a
reason that the girl must be married so that she not "get spoilt". However, community
leaders reported that the underlying reason was so the parents can gain goods and
money as the bride price. Such young women or their peers reported that these girls
often had several different partners before they reached 20 years old. The researchers
found several groups or cooperatives of the refugee commercial sex workers in
Kasanda town who had been married early and then had been separated from their
husbands after a few years, often leaving the young women with a small child to look
after before the age of 20 years ­ see Case Study 7 in Annex 5.

Refugee women reported in focus groups in both camps, particularly in Kanembwa
Camp, that although departure from the refugee camps is limited, women have to
sneak out of the camps to forage for firewood and additional food for the family. When
they leave the camps, they may be raped, or forced to exchange sex for goods and
their release. They fear "catching the AIDS virus" this way. The dangers of movement
outside the camp for women are demonstrated in Case Study 8 in Annex 5.

Sex-Based Violence (SGBV) is also a problem in the refugee camps assessed202.
Rape and domestic violence is said by NGO workers and women to be markedly
underestimated because women fear to report such incidents because women feel
ashamed and they fear ostracism. Although there is SGBV program that includes
SGBV education, victim support, perpetrator conviction and a post-exposure
prophylaxis program203, the requirement of reporting within 72 hours of a rape in order
for a case to be made (ie. medical evidence to be collected) is too short for most
women.

 Celebrations and Alcoholism
In Kanembwa Camp, refugees emphasized drunkenness as a cause of HIV/AIDS.
Idleness and social gatherings was associated with high alcohol consumption, and
                                                consequent drunkenness. Most alcohol
  "On the death of an adult person in our
                                                consumption occurred at bars, dances,
  community, we sleep at the deceaseds
                                                video shows (including blue movies), and
  house for 7 days or 4 days if it is a child   in private residences. Weddings and
  who has died. Since there is not much         funerals are usually large social
  else that one can do, eating, drinking and    gatherings, as these times provided one
  sex become the main preoccupations."          of the few forms of entertainment and
  Community Leaders in Kanembwa Camp            gatherings in the camps. Sexual liaisons
                                                were common at these events, even at
funerals, as reported in the adjoining textbox.

Consumption of alcohol was said by men to be another form of stress-relief with the
subsequent drunkenness leading to irrational decision-making and to casual sex that is
not planned and in which
                                   "Drinking loosens the nuts in a persons body. Whenever
condoms are not regularly used.
The adjoining textbox relates this alcohol is consumed here, men and women feel more bold
association well. Men with a       to demand for or offer sex." Man in Mtendeli Camp
source of income were the most



202
    Two-hundred and thirty-six cases of SGBV were reported in Mtendeli Camp in 2003, including 33 cases
of rape, 13 of attempted rape and 163 cases of domestic violence. In Kanembwa Camp, 29 rape cases
were reported ­ a similar number to Mtendeli Camp but in a camp with double the population size
203
    Post-exposure Prophylaxis Program ­ Novariprine administered to a rape victim within 72hrs to reduce
the likelihood of the victim becoming infected with HIV

                                                  178
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report


likely to engage in such alcohol-related sexual activities. And in Mtendeli Camp, a
drinking place without a bed in the back room for sexual activity does not attract many
customers.
Alcohol, as well as marijuana, was said to fuel a high level of SGBV ­ rape, defilement
and domestic violence - in the refugee camps.

 Knowledge, Attitudes and Behavior regarding STI/HIV/AIDS
As a result of intensive awareness campaigns undertaken by UNHCR and her
partners, all categories of refugees are knowledgeable about HIV transmission,
prevention and impacts, and AIDS symptoms and treatment. In spite of this high
knowledge and awareness, unsafe sexual practice still dominates.

Stigma does exist but social exclusion is limited. In a few instances reported in
Mtendeli Camp, those suspected of being infected with the HIV virus and who may be
presenting with AIDS symptoms are sometimes left on their own and given food
separately away from the main family. The African extended family social network was
seen as a potential mechanism for care and support of PLWHAs. Within camps, the
researchers observed, that owing to limited social capital such a network was very
superficial and fast dying.

Those few HIV+ refugees who have publicly declared their HIV+ status are highly
regarded as giving hope to other people infected with the HIV virus. For example, one
particular HIV+ man in Mtendeli Camp has started his own NGO to provide information
and support to those infected by HIV in the camp.

Stigma and discrimination also influences the transmission of HIV when some refugees
express reluctance to use VCT services for fear of recognition.

Attitudes towards the use of condoms are varied in the camps. Many adults feel that
use of condoms is a catalyst or a license that promotes increases in non-marital sex.
This is a view held by church leaders in the camps. As the church is a unifying factor in
the camps and wields considerable power (more than elected leaders), its messages
are taken seriously. Although the church may not come out directly against condoms,
many refugees have decided that condoms are bad and by implication against church
teachings. Somewhat hypocritically, many adult refugees disobey the churchs
teachings on faithfulness and abstinence. Thus leading to a situation in which extra -
and non-marital sex is performed without using preventive measures.

 Promiscuity, Sexuality and Sexual Behavior
The researchers conclude that prostitution, promiscuity and unfaithfulness in adults, as
well as youth experimenting with their sexuality are key factors influencing the
transmission of HIV within the refugee population and between refugees and outsiders
­ Tanzanians and others.

In Mtendeli Camp, young adults estimated that over 90 percent of refugee youth aged
16 years and above, both male and female, had experienced sexual intercourse. The
incidence of sex amongst encamped refugee youth was said by elders to be due to a
breakdown in traditional social norms ­ with youth refusing to follow traditional mores,
and parents advice or religious teaching. Idleness and poverty of young women also
contribute to sexual activity in youth. Both male and female youth engage in sexual
activity for love and on a casual basis. Casual sex for female youth was said by them to
be for pleasure and for commercial or social gain. Male youth reported that they
engaged in sex for pleasure, they could exert their will on girls to get sex; and that
multiple partners avoid monotony. A male youth in Mtendeli Camp said: "Sex is like
food. If you eat the same dish every day it becomes monotonous. You have to change

                                          179
Social and Gender Assessment


dishes sometimes in order to keep enjoying food." Mainly youth have sex with fellow
youth, except "wild girls" who were said to have sex with older men, such as teachers,
relatives, men with money.

Condoms are used with some consistency by male youth to protect themselves from
HIV and STIs. Girls occasionally insist on using condoms to prevent pregnancy.
However, male youth reported that a variety of sexual partners, as indicated:

Prostitution was somewhat hidden in the refugee camps studied. However, it does exist
within the camps both in a commercial and casual capacity. In addition, refugee women
operate as prostitutes, often in cooperatives, in Kibondo, Kasanda and other nearby
towns along the major highway. They reported that Tanzanian clients pay more for their
services than refugee men. These women see no other option to escape their poverty
and to support themselves and their children. Refugee prostitutes were well aware of
condoms as an effective method of preventing HIV transmission ­ See Case Study 6 in
annex 5. Some were "disciplined" using condoms regularly; and others were reported
by fellow sex workers as "not as disciplined".

The presence of NGOs, UN agencies and companies dealing with the refugees provide
many clients for prostitutes and are targets of poor refugee and host community girls
who barter sex for economic gain or social status. In these liaisons condoms were not
used consistently, except in the cases of some commercial sex workers working in the
towns (See Case Study 7 (Annex 5).

 Disintegration of Family and Social Structure
The researchers observed that the checks and balances in traditional Burundian
society have been undermined. Social cohesion and social capital is low due to the
translocation and relocation of large numbers of refugees with different perspectives
and experiences into one location ­ the refugee camp. The family as a social institution
has disintegrated due to physical and psychological separation of nuclear and
extended families and communities. Social safety nets that existed in Burundi have
been undermined. Cultural ceremonies have been abused, such that funerals and
weddings have become a form of entertainment in which the participants drink, eat and
"play sex", as discussed above.

Parents in both camps report a lack of discipline in male and female youth, in which
they ignore parental advice and restrictions. Parents report that many youth engage in
sexual relations that they would not have done in Burundian villages.

As some husbands and wives were separated
during the exodus from Burundi, many of these       "Temporary marriages are the order of
men and women have taken new "temporary"            the day. If circumstances of war forced
spouses, as indicated in the textbox. In some       you to separate with your spouse, you
cases where the original husband and wife           need not starve if there is someone else
were reunited, they actually operate in 2           of opposite sex faced by the same
families ­ their original marriage and in the new   situation." Man in Kanembwa Camp
temporary relationships.

In the camps, refugees expressed and exhibited an element of shamelessness and a
feeling that refugees can do as they wish in the camp and "live just for today". Thus,
they said that some refugees engage in activities that they would not have dared to
perform in Burundi. Refugees feel "no shame as they are amongst strangers" ­ ie.
refugees not from their own community. Multiple sexual partners, unfaithfulness and
sex with "strangers" is commonplace and not condoned in either refugee camp
assessed.


                                          180
                                                                             TANZANIA Country Report


 Positive Measures Being Undertaken in Kibondo Refugee Camps
In line with the above factors that influence the spread of HIV in the refugee camps,
there are many positive features that have been promoted by UNHCR and her
implementing partners, or by the GoT, or have been adopted by the refugees
themselves that contribute to, or potentially contribute to, the prevention or reduction in
HIV transmission.

UNHCR has run HIV/AIDS programs since 1994, albeit on a smaller scale than today.
In addition, HIV/AIDS is mainstreamed across all operations and sectors of UNHCRs
programs in north-western Tanzania. Such programs are linked with programs in the
Burundi so that services provided to refugees in camps are commensurate with those
in country of origin204. The HIV/AIDS program in the camps in Kibondo District include
sentinel HIV. STI and behavioral surveillance205 206; monitoring and evaluation
(although this is currently not adequate207); community services208 ; youth programs209;
VCT availability in camps and in the District; outreach peer education; PMTCT pilot
programs210; school-based programs; universal precautions; home-based care;
PLWHA Support Group; Family Planning211; supplementary and therapeutic feeding in
camps for HIV and AIDS patients; STI programs and Tuberculosis Control Programs.

However, refugees complained that UNHCR seriously delayed implementing an
HIV/AIDS program in the camps. They felt that the problem of HIV had been
recognized in refugee settings elsewhere in the world many years ago but UNHCR had
not taken heed in Tanzania. One participant asked: "UNHCR, where were you when
the fire was burning?"

In Kibondo District, the IRC, UNHCRs implementing health sector partner is actively
involved in running HIV/AIDS programmes in the refugee camps in Kibondo District.
This NGO has played a vital role in raising awareness to HIV/AIDS in the refugee
camps through health workers, the radio, peers, or public seminars. Refugees in
Kibondo town thought that interpersonal and interactive methods (in particular
interactive workshops and seminars) were the most effective methods of educating the
community. Drama, puppetry and poetry were mentioned as effective, particularly at
the Youth Centre in Mtendeli Camp. The youth who participated in the focus group
discussions in that camp pointed out that these interventions were popular with young
people, both as a method of entertainment and also for educational purposes. They
argued that drama passed on persuasive behavior change messages with respect to
HIV/AIDS.

Condoms are freely and readily available in the camps in places that are appropriate to
refugees of all categories, enabling them to access condoms discretely. According to
UNHCR, the youth in the Mtendeli Camp were the group most likely to use condoms
consistently due to a comprehensive youth support program with youth-friendly
services that exists in the camps youth centre.
The health care system in the refugee camps in Kibondo District is effective and
superior to that in the surrounding Tanzanian communities, as assessed by the
researchers and stated by Kibondo District officials. Adequate care exists for the
204
    E.g. no provision of Anti- Retroviral Drugs (ARVs) to Burundese and Congolese refugees as these
services are not available in Burundi and DRC
205
    Spiegel 2002
206
    Bruns & Spiegel 2003
207
    Spiegel 2003
208
    Spiegel 2003
209
    Youth Programs run through Youth Centers in most camps, to prevent idleness and provide life skills,
reproductive health and STI/HIV education and recreation
210
    PMTCT pilot programs have been accepted 100 percent in the camps and have been hugely
successful ­ so much so that UNHCR cannot keep up with the demand
211
    Burundians wish to replace children who died during the war

                                                  181
Social and Gender Assessment


treatment of AIDS opportunistic infections, for the detection, and the treatment and
management of STIs. A VCT outreach clinic provides HIV testing, and counseling to a
quota of refugees. Community health workers operate in the community to support the
above services, including contact tracing and home-based care.

UNHCR has commenced a campaign to reduce stigma against PLWHAs resulting in
mainly positive attitudes prevailing towards people with HIV or AIDS among the
refugee populations.

These youth centers and similar youth activities provide activities for youth that both
decrease idleness in this group, and a captive audience for behavior change
communication. In Mtendeli, the Youth Centre incorporates HIV prevention, life skills
services, youth-friendly STI treatment and HIV/AIDS education and peer networks.
Health workers in Mtendeli Camp reported that the activities in the youth centre had
lead to a decrease in syphilis amongst youth over time.

The GoT has provided additional security services for the areas surrounding the
refugee camps as a result of the perceived security risk posed by the presence of
refugees. While these forces do provide some security for host communities, the
personnel reportedly engage in multiple unprotected sexual activities with both refugee
and host community women. Women and men in Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps, and
in Mukugwa-Kilemba village reported that security personnel visit the bars in the camps
at night and are a target for young women seeking gain from sex.

One HIV+ refugee man (Noel) in Mtendeli Camp has publicly declared his HIV-positive
status and created an NGO called Stop SIDA. Stop SIDA educates the community
about HIV/AIDS and has done much to reduce stigma by demonstrating that infected
people can live healthy lives. The work of Stop SIDA and of Noel is widely respected in
the Mtendeli Camp.

As a result of the increased rape when refugee women leave the camp to fetch
firewood, some men now escort their wives on these forays.




                                         182
                                                                       TANZANIA Country Report



                 CHAPTER 6: NEIGHBOURING TANZANIAN POPULATIONS

Three Tanzanian communities that neighbor the two refugee study populations were
assessed in this Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS Among Refugee
Populations and IDPs in Tanzania ­ two communities in Kibondo District, neighboring
Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps, respectively; and one adjacent to Ulyankulu
Settlement in Urambo District.

                                     SITE CHARACTERISTICS
 Kibondo District Community Sites
Kasanda town was chosen as it is close to Mtendeli Camp (5 km). The village of
Mukugwa-Kilemba was chosen as it is located near Kanembwa Camp (6 km). Both
host sites lie on or near the main highway.

The population of Kibondo District was 280,283 Tanzanians in the national 2002
census and 159,493 refugees at the end of 2003212. Forty-four percent of the
population is below 18 years of age.

Table 10       Characteristics of Host Sites in Kibondo District
       Characteristics                                 Description
Livelihoods                   Limited opportunities, although presence of refugee
                              camps increase opportunities;
                              Agricultural yield low due to poor soils, limited rainfall,
                              use of simple techniques
Service Provision             GoT service provision but host community can access
                              refugee camp facilities
                              Service poor and unreliable ­ especially compared to
                              camps
                              Difficult to attract experienced personnel
Poverty                       District is poverty-stricken and neglected
                              Overarching problem ­ high poor population
Governance                    GoT system
HIV,     STI    and    AIDS District HIV prevalence is 10.8% (11.4% in males) ­
Prevalence                    higher than refugees
                              AIDS incidence is increasing and undermining district
                              development
                              STI rates increasing alarmingly
HIV/AIDS Programs             District HIV/AIDS program in early stages
                              Includes VCT, STI management, school education and
                              limited peer education
                              Few NGOs operate
 Uyowa near Ulyankulu Settlement in Urambo District
Songambele-Uyowa (referred to as Uyowa) is 20 km north-west of Kaswa Trading
Centre in Uyowa Ward, Ulyankulu Division, Urambo District. Uyowa is only reached by
road after traversing Ulyankulu Settlement. The town is physically isolated and remote.

The permanent population of Uyowa Ward surrounding the village of Uwoya is 19,962
(1,710 households)213. The majority of population are Tanzanians but some Burundian
refugees also live in the village either on a permanent or temporary basis. Fifty percent
of the population is children under 5 years of age.

212
      Kidondo District Council 2003. Annual Report for the Year 2003
213
      Ulyankulu Local Government 2002. Census Figures

                                                     183
Social and Gender Assessment


Table 11       Characteristics of Host Sites in Kibondo District
       Characteristics                               Description
Livelihoods                   Limited opportunities, especially for youth
                              Agriculture (tobacco and grains), gold mine, and petty
                              trade
                              Reliance on Ulyankulu Settlement, especially for
                              services and market
Service Provision             GoT service provision but many services in Kaswa
                              Trading Centre in Ulyankulu Settlement
Health Care                   Nearest health centre / dispensary is 4-5 hr walk
Transport                     No regular or public transport
Poverty                       Majority of population are poor ­ due to remoteness,
                              limited income and livelihood opportunities
Governance                    GoT system
HIV,     STI    and    AIDS Urambo District situation for 2003
Prevalence                          HIV- 13% in blood donors and 17% in VCT
                                      attendees (women fewer tested but higher than
                                      males)
                                    Increasing HIV prevalence due to ignorance, low
                                      incomes, improper STI management, multiple
                                      sexual partners, alcoholism, poor condom
                                      supply214
                                    AIDS cases have doubled since 2000215
HIV/AIDS Programs             Urambo District HIV/AIDS Control Programme operates
                              as per GoT guidelines
                              Program in Uyowa village is limited to a peer educator
                              Condoms are readily available in shops for sale
                              Uyowa has adopted some local regulations regarding
                              HIV/AIDS

                   FINDINGS - TANZANIAN HOST POPULATIONS
The findings presented in this section are derived from the village of Uyowa near
Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement, Mukugwa-Kilemba village and Kasanda town in
Kibondo District, as well as Tanzanians who interact with the refugees but are not
residing in these three host communities.

 Poverty
Local people reported that "biting poverty" was a factor influencing HIV transmission in
the Tanzanian village of Uyowa near Ulyankulu Settlement and in Mukugwa-Kilemba
village near Kanembwa refugee Camp. In both sites, the researchers found that this
poverty exists at individual, household, community and in the case of Kibondo, at
district level. The local people reported that economic poverty is influenced by (i) the
lack of livelihood opportunities, a situation in which the majority of the populations rely
on seasonal rain-fed agriculture; and (ii) remoteness and isolation from Dar es Salaam
or other major centers, which leads to the communities being underserved in terms of
transport and social services, as well as relying on seasonal rain-fed agriculture, and
As economic opportunities are limited, men said that they had time to spare. Women
stated that in Mukugwa-Kilemba village in Kidondo District men spent much of their
time idle. In this village, high alcohol consumption and drunkenness was observed in
both men and women. This further deprived households of income and was reported
by local youth and health workers to be associated with high-risk sexual activity.

214
   Urambo District AIDS/HIV Programme 2003
215
   Admissions to Urambo Hospital with clinical AIDS - 1998 = 37 (18 males and 19 females) to 2003 = 62
(26 males and 36 females)

                                                 184
                                                                    TANZANIA Country Report



The data suggests that womens limited access to household, productive and economic
resources, as well as lack of knowledge about HIV/AIDS in Mukugwa-Kilemba village,
and the existing opportunities for sexual liaison influence womens decision to engage
in risky sexual behavior for gain. A similar scenario was reported in Uyowa village near
Ulyankulu Settlement, although knowledge of HIV/AIDS was higher here. It was noted
that a lower proportion of the women engaged in transactional sex in these host
communities than in the two refugee situations studied. Also a majority of these women
were adolescents who were reported by adults in both communities to engage in
"prostitution" as an opportunity for financial gain ­ with these girls seeking out "sugar
daddies" and the men seeking out young women. For example, business men in
Uyowa village near Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement said that they favored adolescent
girls for sex as it made them "feel young and virile", and in return they provided these
girls, who often come from poor households, with pocket-money, status­ to be seen
with a "salaried or rich man", food, such as honey and meat, or goods, such as
bicycles, lotion or clothes. Condoms were not used in these sexual liaisons.

In addition, in poor households in the 2 rural communities of Uyowa and Mukugwa-
Kilemba, both men and women reported that one way for some women to provide for
household needs is to discretely search for a man outside her marriage who will assist
her economically in return for sex.

The link between poverty of women and sex for gain has a different dynamic in
Tanzanian host communities compared to refugee populations, especially those living
in the camps in Kibondo District. In the host population, sex for gain mainly occurs
because opportunities for gain are available to these women rather out of desperation
as noted in encamped refugee women who expressed the necessity to engage in sex
as the only alternative for their survival and to feed their children. In the host
communities, men with money are present -
examples cited include security personnel,      "Some people [men] with money can also
NGO workers, civil servants, drivers and        transmit HIV around our village. These are like
traders in Mukugwa-Kilemba village and          rich people with shops and cars. They are
Kasanda town in Kibondo District, and           around our village. It is easy for them to date
                                                our young women." Women in the community
shop-keepers, traders, visitors from the city
                                                meeting in Uyowa village
and miners in Uyowa village. Men with
money were blamed by women for transmitting HIV, as demonstrated in the textbox:

                                                    Men in Uyowa reported that
 "People do not like condoms. Sex is like honey.
 Why do you want to waste this honey? The only
                                                    condoms are rarely used in such
 solution here [in this village] is to have sex     sexual liaisons. The reasons cited
 without a condom." Business men in Uyowa           were expense and inhibiting mens
                                                    pleasure, as indicated in the textbox
quote.

One added reason for some of the poor women in Mukugwa-Kilemba village engaging
in sex for gain may be the low level of awareness in women about HIV/AIDS.

 Idleness, Alcohol and Drunkenness
In a similar scenario to that described above for refugee populations, consumption of
alcohol and subsequent drunkenness is also a factor influencing HIV transmission in
the Tanzanian communities visited. This was reported by men and women frequenting
bars, as well as women whose husbands visit bars, to lead to casual unprotected
sexual encounters with irregular partners. Alcohol consumption in public gathering
places was said to be a valued source of entertainment where men and women meet,
particularly in Kibondo District communities. In Uyowa, Urambo District, except for


                                            185
Social and Gender Assessment


Church, areas for alcohol consumption, such as bars, provide the sole permanent
source and venue for social activity within the village.

In the host communities in Kibondo District, men can be seen drinking local brew every
afternoon and early evening, especially in the dry season. Women can be found in bars
from approximately 2-4pm. In Mukubwa-Kilemba village near Kanembwa refugee
Camp, on Sunday when the researcher visited at 4pm most of the adult population was
drunk. During a meeting with youth at this time, they reported that some women at bars
will engage in casual sex in return for drinks, trinkets and money. Also local sex
workers frequent bars searching for clients, and older women when drunk are preyed
upon for sex or even raped. Condoms are rarely used, except for some male youth in
the villages.

As in the refugee settlement and the camps, there is an entire economy centered
around the brewing and selling of alcohol. It provides an income-generation and
household income depletion (See Case Study 9, Annex 5). Single women (divorced,
spinster and widowed) make and sell locally brewed alcohol to generate income. These
women may engage in casual unprotected sex with moneyed male clients to gain extra
income. On the other hand, money is spent to buy alcohol. This presents problems in
poorer households, where women complained that when some of their husbands
received money from produce harvest, they spent it at bars on alcohol and women.

  Knowledge, Attitudes & Practices Re: HIV/AIDS, Condoms and Sex
In Uyowa village, near Ulyankulu refugee Settlement, all age-groups and both sexes
were aware of the means of transmission of HIV/AIDS, prevention, and simple care of
HIV+ people and AIDS patients. This awareness was attributed to radio messages and
community meetings. This was similar to the situation in refugee camps. Conversely, in
Kibondo District, awareness was generally low in adults in host populations
neighboring the refugee camps. In Kasanda, some respondents reported that they did
not understand exactly how HIV is transmitted216, while in Mukugwa-Kilemba, the
womens focus group exhibited near total ignorance about the routes of transmission,
prevention of HIV transmission, and opportunities for treatment. In these communities,
married men had a lower level of awareness than unmarried men, with male youth
being the best informed.

In all 3 Tanzanian communities visited, volunteer peer educators have been trained
and deployed. However, they are not operating effectively, and the radio remains the
major channel for receiving information on HIV/AIDS. The researchers concluded that
as radios are owned and controlled mainly by men, it is not surprising that women had
a much lower understanding of HIV/AIDS issues than men.

However, despite a degree of awareness of HIV/AIDS, particularly in youth in
Mukugwa-Kilemba and Kassanda and the majority of the population in Uyowa village,
behavior to reduce the risk of HIV transmission is inconsistent and blocked by several
barriers. Firstly, in the Kibondo communities studied, stigma against people who seek
HIV testing or care, people with AIDS, or those who have symptoms typically
associated with AIDS is a barrier to changes in behavior. In addition, the seeming
acceptance of promiscuous behavior in the communities, and the preference of many
local men not to wear condoms are also barriers that block the transition from
awareness to attitude and behavior change.




216
    This seems to contradict the almost ritual "reciting" that the community made of ways in which
transmission occurs, namely, having sex with an infected partner, sharing contaminated needles, blood
transfusion, and using sharp objects

                                                186
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report


The Tanzanians interviewed preferred not to use condoms because they are not
readily available or accessible, being mainly available from health centre staff ­ health
centre too far away (Uyowa) and access is not discrete and dissuades married men
and all women from accessing this supply of condoms (Mukugwa-Kilemba); condoms
are expensive and may even by charge d at government health centers (dispensary
serving Uyowa clients charge 300 shillings for a packet of 3 condoms); feeling that
"Condoms are a waste of money"; fear that condoms might get stuck in their vaginas;
and condoms limiting pleasurable sensation during sexual intercourse, primarily for
men. The religious feeling against condom use and promotion was not observed in the
Tanzanian villages visited ­ unlike in all the refugee populations.

Overall, the researchers observed that stigma was more pronounced amongst the host
populations in Kibondo District than in the refugee camps. Key informant responses on
community perceptions and treatment of people suffering from HIV/AIDS were mixed.
Some community members perceive persons with HIV/AIDS with fear, and blame them
for carelessness in their sexual practices. In Kasanda, two of 5 groups of respondents
said that they would treat HIV infected
                                           "We even stopped buying avocado fruits from one
people in the same way as everyone
                                           [HIV-infected] person because it was believed
else, while one group of respondents
said they wouldnt know what to do.         that he had injected the avocados with the HIV
Cases were reported of discrimination      virus and that he was bent on contaminating all of
against people suspected of being          us." Group of men in Kasanda town
infected with HIV, as shown by the
textbox quote. In general however, people living with AIDS are treated with
compassion, support, counseling and encouragement. Food and soft drinks are given
to them. The African extended family social network was seen as a potential
mechanism for care and support of PLWHAs.

In Kibondo District, fewer youth in the host communities than in the camps thought that
a person infected with HIV could look healthy. Others in the host communities
confessed that they did not know. The majority of respondents were certain that a
person with the AIDS causing virus would always die from the disease, and that AIDS
had no cure or drug to reduce its impacts. The majority of the respondents did not
know of the presence of ARVs.

 Promiscuous Sexual Behavior
Promiscuity is a set of behaviors that directly links other factors influencing the
transmission of HIV in the Tanzanian communities studied. Promiscuity manifests as
infidelity in married couples, casual sex often associated with male power or alcohol
consumption, and failure of youth to abstain (in Uyowa, the youth estimated that 90
percent of male and female youth 16 years and over were sexually active). Multiple
partners are involved and in general, condom use is limited or inconsistent, as in the
case of refugees.

A number of factors maintain this set of behavior: Firstly, the combination of poor
women and men with money means that women willing to engage in sex for gain are
available. In Uyowa, these men are the nearby workers in the gold mines, and richer
business owners. In Kibondo District, as well as local and visiting traders, the presence
of the refugee camps is paralleled with an influx of salaried men ­ UN and NGO
workers, drivers, and security personnel. Secondly, the presence of refugees in
Kibondo District has reportedly led to a dramatic increase in the number of prostitutes
who are needed to service the workers associated with refugee services. These female
sex workers come from the refugee camps, local towns and villages, as well as other
regions in Tanzania. The researchers found that prostitutes in Kasanda and Kibondo
were more likely to use condoms, except those who felt powerless to negotiate with
clients, or those desperate for money. Even in these villages in Kibondo District and

                                           187
Social and Gender Assessment


especially in the town of Kasanda on the highway, prostitutes reported that their
income is satisfactory. Except in Kasanda, the casual and CSW are all Tanzanian girls
and women who have sex for gifts and money (2,000 / "sex act" and 5,000 - 10,000 per
night).

Also local girls were said to move between towns in the District "chasing salaried
workers" as boyfriends for economic or social gain. Fortunately, this group of men was
also reported to use condoms with higher frequency than refugees or host community
population men, and their knowledge regarding HIV was found by researchers to be
adequate. Unfortunately, condoms were still not used in all sexual encounters. Girls
who have engaged in sexual encounters with these salaried me reported that the
situations in which condoms were not used included where the man was drunk, where
a condom was not available at the time of sexual intercourse, and where the man
preferred the heightened pleasure of skin contact. They reported that security
personnel (police and army) rarely used condoms. These women said that they had
limited power in negotiating with men to use condoms.

The reportedly high libido of Tanzanian men and the sense of rejuvenation217 that old
men feel when engaging in sex with younger girls are also factors that promote
promiscuous behavior and not using a condom.

 Limited Access to, and Quality of, Health Care & Education Services
A standard government HIV/AIDS program ran in each host community visited. This
consisted of basic health education through peer educators. Public education and peer
education services were inadequate in all Tanzanian communities visited in the opinion
of the researchers. Although some educators from the communities have been trained,
they are not sure of their roles and responsibilities; they are not motivated or
supported. These educators provide little information and education on HIV/AIDS to
their communities.

In Kibondo District, the quality of health services at lower levels of local government
was reported as poor by health personnel and the public, which has lead to low
customer satisfaction. As the district hospital is some distance, some host community
members actually prefer to use the health services in the refugee camps, as they
perceived these services are of higher quality. Residents in Uyowa have no health
service. Instead they use the GoT services in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement, 20 km
away. Serious cases were required travel to Urambo District Hospital - 1 hour distance
by car, if transport was available, or over 5 hours by bicycle. A similar situation
regarding the District Hospital exists for the people in Kasanda and Mukugwa-Kilemba
villages in Kibondo District.

In all Tanzanian sites, local health personnel reported that STI prevalence was high but
treatment was distant and not readily accessible, except in Kibondo town. VCT
services were also distant and inadequate in terms of coverage, staff, and counseling
capacity.

Condoms, although often available in Kibondo District health centers and dispensaries,
were often not accessed by married men or any women due to the public nature of the
centers and having to request condoms from someone who lives in the village. In
Uyowa, there was no health unit but condoms could be readily purchased in kiosks,
unlike neighboring Ulyankulu Settlement where very few outlets sold condoms. Only
male youth accessed these condoms.


217
   A young man in Uyowa said: "Older men like these young girls because the body of a young girl is hot.
They can have multiple orgasms with a young girl (15-20) and feel young and virile again."

                                                  188
                                                                              TANZANIA Country Report


 Traditional Practices and Gender Imbalance
In the Tanzanian communities visited traditional practices218 and gender roles
potentially influence HIV transmission due to the subordinate position of women to men
in society. Women are expected to be obedient to their husbands, including with regard
to sexual demands, and most women and girls do not have the ability to negotiate
sexual practices. Further, women in Mukubwa-Kilemba Tanzanian villages informed
the researchers that in most marriages, men control resources, assets and information.
Thus, women are less well informed about HIV and AIDS and may, as a result of
limited access to money, engage in sexual bartering for gain.

In Uyowa community near Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement, traditional Sukuma tribal
dances are week-long events performed in the dry season by the local Tanzanian
people. Some of the dance moves are sexual in nature, and the events include the
consumption of alcohol and partying all night. The refugees in Ulyankulu Settlement
viewed the Ngoma Dances as places where much sexual activity occurs and are
places where HIV is transmitted.

 Interaction with Outsiders
In the Mukugwa-Kilemba near Kanembwa Camp, villagers reported that the
widespread presence of military and other security personnel (army, local militia,
police) in the District is a key factor influencing HIV transmission. The community listed
them as Number 1 in terms of the most promiscuous group. They move throughout the
region, coming to local communities and paying money and giving gifts to local girls
and women in return for sex. The presence of men working to supply services and
goods for the refugees, are also a group that influence the spread of HIV in the area,
as mentioned above.

In Uyowa, outsider males who come to the village for recreation and business were
said to be responsible for bringing HIV and AIDS. They provide an opportunity for local
girls and women, as well as prostitutes to earn money and gifts. Traders come to the
village to buy crops, grain, honey and tobacco. The traders stay in the village for up to
3 days, during which time they are reported to take alcohol and find casual sex
partners. Miners from the nearby Nsungwa Mines were said to come to Uyowa village
after they received their salary. They drink alcohol in local bars and engage in sex with
local casual and commercial sex workers, as they do in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement
nearby. A case in point is presented in Case Study 10 in Annex 5. Lastly, Burundian
refugees come from nearby Ulyankulu Settlement. Tanzanian men in Uyowa and in the
Settlement reported that the refugees prefer to have sex with Tanzanian women
because they are "easy and can keep a secret".

Villagers from Tanzanian villages travel outside the village to access health services,
undertake business activities, and to visit relatives. Married women in all villages
report that sexual encounters can occur, which may lead to HIV infection and the
spread of the virus to the village on return.

 Positive Measures Being Undertaken in Tanzanian Villages
The programs under the MoHs National AIDS Control Program are being implemented
in Kibondo and Urambo Districts. The programs were most evident at District level,
although funding is limited219. Few aspects of this program filtered down to village level.

218
    Cultural practices of widow inheritance, although limited in Kibondo District only, and polygamy were
reported but no additional information is available
219
    In Kibondo District, some community HIV mapping had been undertaken, 20 peer educators and 20
guardians of orphans had been trained, and at 18 health facilities, STI training had occurred. However,
there are only 4 counselors in the entire District

                                                  189
Social and Gender Assessment


The services offered are minimal compared to those in the refugee camps in Kibondo
District. In the opinion of the researchers and local UNHCR staff, these peer educators
who have been trained and are in place in local communities would be an excellent
resource for raising awareness of local people, if supported and motivated.

The United Nations Childrens Fund supports school programs for HIV/AIDS education
in the District. In primary schools, HIV/AIDS education occurs from Standard 5, and at
secondary level in all grades.

The recently opened STI Treatment Centre and the VCT centre at the Ulyankulu Health
Centre provide an opportunity for Tanzanians from neighboring communities to
determine their HIV status and seek adequate treatment for STIs. In the past, people
had to travel to Urambo or Tabora to visit VCT centers.

NGOs have provided training for peer educators in both districts visited. In Urambo
District, they have also provided a few public seminars. In Kibondo District, the African
Youth Alliance commenced youth activities in 2004 that focused on HIV/AIDS
education, skills provision, and activities to reduce youth idleness.

In Kibondo District, UNHCR and her partners have worked with the local government to
ensure that Kibondo District Hospital is equipped with a VCT centre, the capacity and
drugs for treating STIs and AIDS associated OI for both refugees and Tanzanians. Also
refugees do access the health facilities in the refugee camps. Some Tanzanian youth
reported that they preferred to visit the camp health centers as they could remain
anonymous.

At the community level, local government is implementing bylaws to help limit the
spread of HIV. In Uyowa some years ago, the villagers agreed that if a person died of
AIDS, then at their funeral their cause of death would be announced. However,
complaints were made during focus groups that some people were not transparent and
do not report, especially when the cause of death could be AIDS.

Also they felt that some HIV+ people had come to the village to deliver messages
about positive living. This helped reduce the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS.




                                          190
                                                                 TANZANIA Country Report



   CHAPTER 7: ANALYSIS OF FACTORS INFLUENCING HIV TRANSMISSION

This chapter analyses the findings presented in the preceding 3 chapters ­
investigating the key factors that drive situations of vulnerability to HIV transmission
and those factors that maintain this vulnerability; and comparing old caseload
Burundian refugees with new caseload Burundian refugees, and these two populations
with the situation in the Tanzanian host situation.

In Tanzania, as elsewhere, high-risk sexual practices - unprotected sex with multiple
partners outside of permanent faithful unions ­ are the immediate conduit for HIV
transmission. The researchers have labeled this set of behavior as promiscuous sexual
behavior. This behavior persisted in despite a reasonably high awareness of the modes
of transmission of HIV, the incurability of AIDS, and prevention methods in the study
sites visited in Tanzania. This social and gender assessment of HIV/AIDS in refugee
populations investigates the reasons behind this behavior so that interventions can be
formulated to address such behavior and reduce the spread of HIV in the GLR. The
chapter highlights the fact that this promiscuous sexual behavior often occurs despite
adequate knowledge about the transmission and prevention of HIV, and the
consequences of AIDS.

On analysis, the key factors that drive overall vulnerability to HIV transmission in the
refugee populations studied includes: (i) poverty, as a result of displacement and
encampment, isolation, and limited livelihood opportunities; (ii) knowledge of HIV/AIDS,
attitudes to condoms and sex; and promiscuous behavior; and (iii) inadequacy of
HIV/AIDS programs and supporting health care services. Similar factors drive the
vulnerability to HIV transmission in the Tanzanian host population, although the causes
and effects of these factors differ and the degree of influence varies. In both the
refugee populations and the host communities, gender disparities meant that women
and adolescent girls are most vulnerable to HIV infection.

These primary and secondary factors influencing HIV transmission operate at three
levels:
(vii)   At the level of the behavior ­ knowledge, attitudes and behaviors, such as
        sexual preferences and practices, idleness, behavior as a result of camp
        congestion, drinking of alcohol, behavior at social gatherings, and women
        transacting sex for gain;
(viii) At the household level ­ restrictions in livelihood activities and opportunities.
(ix)    Weakening societal structures, which undermine traditional norms and checks
        on social and sexual behavior, especially in the case of the encamped refugees

These factors are maintained by situations of interaction within the refugee, and
between them and Tanzanians (detailed in Annex 6). Within the old caseload refugee
population in Ulyankulu Settlement, it is mainly social interactions that influence the
spread of HIV/AIDS. These occur between the refugees themselves, between refugees
and Tanzanians resident in the Settlement and Tanzanians who visit the settlement.
Such social gatherings include traditional ceremonies, bars and the entertainment hall,
Sukuma dances, the Saturday market and around kiosks in the Trading Centre. The
major economic interaction that influences the spread of HIV/AIDS is the biweekly
market held in Kaswa Trading Centre in which refugees, Tanzanian residents and
traders converge- many sexual transactions occur.




                                          191
Social and Gender Assessment


  KNOWLEDGE, ATTITUDES, PRACTIVES AND BEHAVIOR REGARDING
                     SEX AND HIV/AIDS

The high-risk sexual behavior, in the form of high levels of unprotected sex with
multiple partners outside of permanent, faithful unions, was evident both in populations
with little awareness of HIV/AIDS, as well as in those with exceptional knowledge of the
virus and the disease. The researchers conclude that knowledge about HIV/AIDS does
not translate into positive behavior change because other factors override this
knowledge - such as inability of women to negotiate the timing, frequency and practices
of sex; poor womens ability to use sex for gain; mens personal preferences for non-
use of condoms, alcohol consumption, weakened societal checks and balances and
casual sexual relationships; as well as structural factors such as poverty and the
adequacy of health care services and HIV/AIDS programs.

 Knowledge
In some cases high risk sexual practice is partly due to a lack of awareness,
particularly in some women, the elderly and rural adults in the Ulyankulu Refugee
Settlement; and many rural adults, especially women and the elderly, in the
communities visited in Kibondo District. Nonetheless, knowledge of HIV/AIDS in other
groups was high ­ school children, and in -school and out-of school youth in all
communities, refugee adults in the Trading Centre in Ulyankulu Settlement and in
Mtendeli and Kanembwa refugee camps, sex workers, traders and drivers, men and
most women in Uyowa village and professionals. But despite this awareness ­ of
modes of HIV transmission, incurability of AIDS, and methods for prevention - high-risk
sexual behavior is still prevalent in all sites.

This indicates to the researchers that national policies and programs for HIV/AIDS
health promotion are not being effectively translated into action and impact at local
levels, whereas UNHCR policies and programs are reaching the refugee sub-
populations.

 Attitudes
Several attitudes related to HIV/AIDS influenced the transmission of HIV, such as
attitudes to the use of condoms in general and individually; discrimination and stigma of
being HIV-positive; despondency that lead to a laissez-faire attitude of living for today
and not worrying about the future; and failure to acknowledge HIV/AIDS exists in the
community.

 Attitudes to Condom Use
Attitudes towards condoms played a significant role in HIV transmission in refugee
populations and Tanzanians who interact with them. Three reasons are key to the lack
of consistent condom use by all, except some commercial sex workers in Kassanda
town, male youth in Ulyankulu Settlement, the Kanembwa and Mulyankulu Camps and
the host communities: (i) Religious beliefs and teachings; (ii) personal preference; and
(iii) accessibility ­ cost and availability.

Although religious leaders in the refugee camps and the settlement were actively
involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS, the messages delivered by these leaders varied
in emphasis from the messages promoted by UNHCR and the Government of
Tanzania. Religious teachings focus parishioners on abstinence and faithfulness in




                                          192
                                                                               TANZANIA Country Report


unions of "one wife and one husband"220, while the UNHCR and GoT focus on condom
use. Most important to the transmission of HIV are the interpretations and selective
adoption by parishioners of religious teachings, especially of Roman Catholic and
Pentecostal churches in Ulyankulu Settlement. One pastor said that availability of
condoms "is like giving a license for people to practice sex ­ a catalyst to increased
sexual activity". For this reason, a group of women in the Settlement felt extremely
strongly that condom manufacture and distribution should be "banned in the entire
world"; and Burundian refugees in kiosks and shops in the main trading centre refused
to sell condoms because it was "against their religion". These feelings existed in a
more hidden manner in the Kibondo refugee camps, probably due to the quite apparent
HIV/AIDS programs operating. In Tanzanian communities, this religious tension and
negative attitude to condoms was not evident.

Despite these strong feelings against condoms, many old caseload refugees are
ignoring religious teachings about abstinence and faithfulness. In Ulyankulu
Settlement, 90 percent of unmarried youth were said to engage in sex, while
community groups estimated that infidelity occurs in at least 50 percent of married
couples in the Settlement221.

Apart from the religious reasons given above in Ulyankulu Settlement, the most
common reason for not using condoms was personal preference of the male partner.
There was no difference between Burundian refugees and Tanzanian communities.
The use of condoms was mainly the decision of men, with the exception of commercial
sex worker in Kasanda ­ a major truck stop on the north-western route from Dar es
Salaam, to Kigoma. Most women, especially those over 25 years of age, either had no
power, skills or desire to negotiate the frequency or practice of sexual activity. Women
were in their words, the "passive recipients" and they did not have to worry about
condoms because "it is a man's job - they are the ones that approach us [while] our
[womens] role is to offer sex222." Young refugee girls (15-22 years) in Kanembwa
Camp, both sexes seem to be involved in the decision to use a condom. Both prefer
not to use a condom as it "does not feel good." When girls insisted on using condoms,
it was through fear of getting pregnant, not through fear of HIV infection.

Men gave various reasons for preferring not to use condoms. Some men did not trust
that condoms were effective in preventing HIV infection as a result of negative publicity
and propaganda, from leaders and in newspapers and on the radio. Several Burundian
men in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement reported hearing that condoms had been
infected with the HIV virus, while others had heard that condoms were only 50 ­ 75
percent effective at preventing HIV transmission. Others reported that condoms burst,
leaked or slipped during sexual intercourse. However, except sex workers, male youth
in general, and refugees in camps, few others interviewed demonstrated knowledge of
proper application and use of condoms, and how to perform the sex act while using
condoms - some men in Usigala rural village and many women in Ulyankulu
Settlement stated that they did not know how to use condoms (or even where it is
placed on the body), and many men and women in the Settlement reported not ever
having seen a condom.

Although availability and cost of condoms were mentioned as barriers to use, these
appear to be secondary to other reasons and related to the perceived likelihood of
becoming infected with HIV. For most men, lack of sensation was the primary reason
for not using condoms. They prefer "nyama kwa nyama"223 or skin to skin contact, and
220
    While we found no direct evidence during our visits that pastors and priests preach against the use of
condoms, we did find that there was a belief by religious leaders that condoms can leak, and that condoms
go against the Bibles dictate to "Go and fill the World"
221
    Community groups estimations, triangulated with officials and between different groups
222
    Quote by women in Mtendeli Camp
223
    Nyama kwa nyama literally means meat to meat, but implies skin to skin

                                                   193
Social and Gender Assessment


wearing a condom would be like "eating bubble gum with the paper on it"224. While still
others reported they experience penile discomfort while wearing condoms.

Some women did not like the feel of condoms or feared that condoms may become
lodged in their vagina ­ a common fear in all sites. Further, women also misplaced
trust in regular partners, even if neither they nor the partner were monogamous. Also
female youth reported trusting their partner ­ after a few months of using a condom,
the coupled stopped without being tested for HIV.

Lack of awareness of condoms also limits use. Rural women and men in Usigala
village, Ulyankulu Settlement, had no idea at all about how to use condoms225. And
middle-aged and older men in all contexts feel that using condoms is for youth,
prostitutes and widows.

The researchers felt that many people in host and refugee communities had no first
hand experience of a person dying of AIDS. As a result, they do not really believe that
HIV/AIDS is a problem in the Settlement. A private medical assistant in the Settlement,
told researchers that most patients do not know they are HIV positive, as until recently
there was no VCT in the Settlement, and even when the sero-status is known, families
do not reveal that their relative is sick with AIDS out of shame.

From the above, two issues present as areas for intervention: (i) dispelling
misconceptions and convincing men and women of the efficiency and efficacy of latex
condoms; and (ii) promotion of the correct use of condoms and provision of a variety of
condoms that provide comfort to the man and the woman.

 Attitudes to PLWHAs
Further, while discrimination against people infected with HIV is minimal in refugee
camps, Ulyankulu Settlement and in Uyowa Tanzanian village, some discrimination
exists against PLHWA in the villages neighboring the refugee camps in Western
Tanzania. In these villages, others blame HIV-infected neighbors for their carelessness
in their sexual practices. Many people fear being seen going for testing at the District
Hospital so they either do not test or go the refugee camps for testing. In such an
atmosphere, HIV-positive persons were said to hide their status or not test at all, and to
continue sexual behavior, often promiscuous, without condoms on the possible
erroneous presumption of not being infected.

 Living for Today
Many refugees in the camps in Kibondo camps, both young and old alike, expressed a
feeling of despondency and powerlessness over their situation that lead to a coping
strategy of "living for today". They expressed the sentiment that if today can be made
bearable, then the future will be what it will be. Hence, a carefree attitude to HIV
infection and transmission was expressed, especially by adult male refugees, in which
condoms were not used with consistency.

 Ignorance
In all sites, particularly in Tanzanian villages and Uyankulu Refugee Settlement, a
sense of ignoring the danger of HIV/AIDS was noted by researchers. In Ulyankulu
Settlement, all participants expressed the view that HIV/AIDS was a problem and that
people were dying of AIDS in their community, but few knew anyone who had died
because the cause of death was often undiagnosed or kept secret. Youth confided that

224
      Group of refugee leaders in Mtendeli Camp
225
      13 of 15 men and all women did not know how to use a condom

                                                  194
                                                                     TANZANIA Country Report


people in the Settlement did not really understand the dangers of HIV, and "don't think
AIDS is in the refugees in the Settlement" but rather that outsiders are infected.

In all Tanzanian villages, outsiders were blamed for bringing HIV into the communities
and that these outsiders were ones who are infected. In the Tanzanian village of
Mukugwa-Kilemba neighboring Kanembwa Refugee Camp in Kibondo District,
community members felt that the prevalence of HIV was high in refugees and so if they
had sex amongst themselves, they would be safe. The Kibondo District Council, in its
2003 Annual Report,226 lists the presence of refugees as one of the 3 issues
contributing to HIV transmission. In Kanembwa Camp, the refugees said that they had
buried people who had died of AIDS, but that these people came from outside their
camp. This sentiment is not strong in well-informed youth, such as those in Mtendeli
Camp and in-school adolescents elsewhere.

 Promiscuous Sexual Behavior
Promiscuous sexual behavior means relatively unselective, casual and indiscriminate
sex that is not within the framework of a steady sexual relationship, or occurs in
multiple, simultaneous sexual relationships227. Promiscuous sexual behavior was
prominent in all sites visited in Tanzania - refugee camps, refugee settlement and
Tanzanian villages. Condom use was at best inconsistent in most sexual encounters,
except with prostitutes in Kasando town in Kibondo District, and youth in the refugee
camps. Similarities and differences in features and causes of promiscuity existed
between groups and sites.

The reasons why there is such an extent of this behavior in all populations varies
between groups but revolves around economic need in women; personal preferences
and availability of money in men; social structures; and idleness and alcohol
consumption.

 Youth's Inability to Abstain
In all sites, male youth found "abstinence impossible" as they were curious, want to "try
out" different sex partners and because sex is part of this "stage of life" being at "a
foolish age". Idleness, "hanging around the streets", videos (including "blue" movies in
Mtendeli Camp) and alcohol consumption were also factors contributing to promiscuity
in male youth. Promiscuity appeared more pronounced in out-of-school youth than in-
school youth, possibly associated with idleness and a feeling of manlihood and
independence.

In most cases, youth had sex within their own population group, except in Tanzanian
villages, where male youth sought sexual relations with Burundian girls because they
are "hot and exciting" and reportedly "score [highly] in all areas that matter in sexual
satisfaction"228.

Female youth also engage in sexual practices, although they were more discrete in
their admissions than young men and found it more difficult to "get out" of their parental
homes. Excursions by girls to the markets were seen as opportunities for many female
youth in Kaswa Trading Centre in Ulyankulu Settlement and in refugee camps to meet
their boyfriends, or to talk to young men. Some young girls engage in sex for pleasure
with "boyfriends", situations in which condoms are used in Mtendeli Camp but not in
Ulyankulu Settlement. However, adults and male youth reported that the majority of
female youth were said to engage in promiscuous sexual behavior for (i) gaining

226
    Kidondo District Council 2003. Annual Report for the Year 2003
227
    Wikipedia, on-line encyclopedia
228
    Male youth group, Mukugwa-Kilemba village

                                                  195
Social and Gender Assessment


trinkets, alcohol and meals in all sites; (ii) family support and sustenance in Kanembwa
Camp; (iii) money; (iv) on promises of gain; or (iv) status by associating with salaried
men (teachers, NGO workers and military) in refugee camps and neighboring villages.

Older men in Uyowa Tanzanian village said that "mazoea wameyakuta tunayo sisi
wazezi" (children / youth copy from their parents).

 "Unfaithfulness" in Adults
In all communities visited for this social and gender assessment of HIV, considerable
numbers of adults engaged in extra-
marital relationships, which were in         "I preach much about faithfulness to my church
many cases casual and indiscriminate.        members but it is not possible to practice. Even
Community members in every site said         for old men, it is impossible to be faithful."
that infidelity and promiscuity was          Evangelical pastor in Uyowa Tanzanian village
common in adults- even it was not
possible for people to abstain, as seen in the quote of a religious leader (textbox). This
behavior was reported by adults in all population groups to be responsible for the
spread of HIV.

Other than reports of the devil and failure to "read the word of God", the forces driving
women to engage in promiscuous behavior were largely different to those that lead
men to engage in promiscuous sexual behavior. For men, their high libido and the need
for "huru kaza manadam" (sensual pleasure) was the major factor given for mens
promiscuity, as well as for mens preference of not using condoms. Men quoted
"tamaa", "bodily urge", "African culture", "hobby", "human nature", and "admiring
tendencies" for the wife of another man as the reasons for their inability to remain
faithful to their wife. Behind these reasons / excuses was a sense of rejuvenation felt
by older men when engaging in sexual intercourse with young women. Abundant
opportunity was also cited as a factor leading to infidelity. This situation was common
in old and new caseload Burundian refugees and in Tanzanians, in camps, the
settlement and Tanzanian villages.

For men, opportunity for engaging in sex has 4 facets; (i) availability of money (see
below); (ii) the availability of time; (iii) the availability of alcohol; and (iv) the availability
of women ­girls, poor women, casual and prostitutes.

In all sites, Tanzanian men with money or regular salaries ­ military, NGO and UN
workers, traders, miners, civil servants, teachers, road workers, drivers - were reported
to frequently engage in promiscuous behavior with local Tanzanian or Burundian
refugee women. Different groups of men were prominent in each site. For poorer men,
such as Tanzanian farmers or refugee men in Ulyankulu Settlement, they receive
money at harvest time from the sale of crops or from casual labor. At these times,
many spent the money earned "randomly" on alcohol and women. It must be
remembered that the cost of sex may be as little as a pot of local brew, a pair of rubber
thongs, or a few hundred shillings. When sex can cost so little, a condom in
comparison is a large expense.

For many women, sex was seen as a livelihood opportunity. In other cases, women
engaged in extramarital sex for revenge. For women, opportunities to engage in extra-
marital sex presents in the form of men with money or those who can provide desired
objects ­ alcohol, food, clothing. Casual and commercial sex workers utilize such
opportunities, as do girls desirous of "nice things" and poor women needing to meet
their basic needs.




                                               196
                                                                      TANZANIA Country Report


 Minimal Use of Condoms
Condom use varied between sites, populations and sub-populations. Those who
consistently used condoms for every sex act included: some commercial Burundian
sex workers in Kasanda town; and many male youth in Mtendeli Camp. Youth in the
Mtendeli Camp were the group most likely to use condoms consistently. In this camp,
condoms are free and easily accessible, and a comprehensive youth support program
with youth-friendly services and a youth centre exists.

There were groups of men who regularly but not consistently used condoms. Traders,
miners, civil servants, drivers, and salaried NGO workers were likely to use
condoms229, but failed to do so when drunk or when condoms were not immediately
available. Male youth in Ulyankulu Settlement, Kanembwa Camp, and Mukugwa-
Kilembe Tanzanian village also reported to use condoms when they could afford them
or they were easily available. Unfortunately, not having a condom did not prohibit most
young men from engaging in sexual activities when the opportunity presented itself.

In refugee camps, where awareness is high and condoms are freely availability, the
major reasons for failure to use condoms were sex acts that are unplanned; sex
associated with impaired judgement due to alcohol consumption; failure to enjoy sex
with a condom - according to all age groups of men; and religious beliefs in adult and
older men in Ulyankulu Settlement, and probably also in the refugee camps to a lesser
extent. The cost of condoms was an issue in the rural Tanzanian village of Uyowa, and
for male youth in general outside the refugee camps.

 Idleness of Men - AIDS prevails when many people have nothing to do230
Idleness in men was seen as a factor influencing the spread of HIV, as men have time
on their hands, may feel despondent as livelihood are lacking, and having sex will
cheer him up and demonstrate his manhood. Idleness for men is a complex
phenomena, which is related to lack of livelihood opportunities, which have different
causes in the 3 populations studied. There is little to do for men during the dry season
in Ulyankulu Settlement and in the Tanzanian communities neighboring the Kibondo
refugee camps. The majority (90 percent) of the households is cultivators and in the dry
season, they cannot engage in agriculture. In Ulyankulu Settlement, other livelihood
opportunities are few, seeking opportunities outside the Settlement is prohibited, and
for youth there are no opportunities for further study outside the Settlement. In the
Tanzanian communities in Kibondo District, alternative livelihood opportunities are few
as the men are mostly unskilled and the district very poor. In Mtendeli and Kanembwa
refugee Camps, economic activities do not exist.

The results of the time on the hands of many men are the following:
        Youth hang around vijuwe (place for male youth to meet) - the streets, market
        place, bars and coffee shops - "to see the situation that prevails" - watching
        videos, playing cards, boa (African board game), and draughts, and observing
        members of the opposite sex. This then leads to talk about sex and engaging in
        sexual activities as the opportunity arises.
        Men gather in bars consume alcohol together, which in turn leads to sexual
        opportunities.
        Idleness also presents opportunities for attending gatherings and parties, where
        priorities include drinking, eating and "playing sex".
The researchers suggest two factors that link idleness to increased risk of HIV
transmission and infection. Firstly, idle men, who may have low self-esteem as a result
of not being engaged full-time in livelihood activities, gather to provide camaraderie and
229
    According to sex workers in Kasanda and according to the sale of condoms at the pharmacy in
Ulyankulus Kaswa Trading Centre
230
    Community meeting in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement

                                             197
Social and Gender Assessment


peer support to each other. For such men, and especially for male youth, sexual
conquests affirm their maleness and build their self-worth. Secondly, the gathering
places of these men often serve alcohol, which is reported to relax, and reduce
judgment with regard to sexual encounters.

 Availability and Consumption of Alcohol
Consistently, in all sites and population groups, the availability of alcohol, high alcohol
consumption and drunkenness were associated with promiscuous sexual behavior,
high-risk sexual practices for both men and women, and the spread of HIV. This is
particularly the case for men. Both men and women reported that when they are drunk
they do not think rationally, their judgement is impaired (See Case Study 11, Annex 5)
and can engage in unplanned sexual activities, without thought of the consequences.
They do not think to use condoms, even if they know how to apply one, and "they may
[even] spend the whole day and night and forget to return home"231. Although the
researchers observed that more men than women drank alcohol and were seen drunk,
women also drank alcohol in bars.

High alcohol consumption is associated with the easy availability of alcohol ­ even
small villages were observed to have up to 8 bars, mama ntilies, or local brew houses.
Not only do women interested in transacting sex frequent these bars, cases were
reported where men also prey on better-off women to provide drinks, which may result
in repayment in sex (See Case Study 11, Annex 5).

High alcohol consumption occurs at specific times. In refugee camps, all days except
Sundays due to religious commitments, were days for drinking largely as a result of
lack of employment activities resulting in idleness and feelings of disempowerment.

For refugees in camps in Kibondo District, alcohol consumption was seen as a way to
relax and forget their troubles. Drinking and drunkenness is associated with sex. In
Kanembwa Camp, most drinking places have a bed in the back room for customers to
engage in sex. Such bars do not sell condoms, although UNHCR has plans for condom
distribution in bars. In the camps, drinking commences in bars in the camps as early as
9am in the morning and continues until after midnight, except Sundays due to the
strong religious following.

In Kaswa Trading Centre in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement, the night before market
days and during market days (Wednesday and Saturday) is associated with high
alcohol consumption, and reportedly much sexual activity. Friday and Tuesday nights
are also when the local pharmacy reported the highest condom sales (these were the
nights before the market).In Mukubwa-Kilemba host community near Kanembwa
refugee Camp, alcohol consumption involved most adults on Sundays, and on week
days from 1-6 pm for men and 4-6 pm for women. Drinking and drunkenness was not
as prominent in Uyowa Tanzanian village near Ulyankulu Settlement possibly due to
the higher level of employment and livelihood engagement noted in the village.

In refugee camps and in neighboring villages in Kibondo District, drunkenness was also
linked to SGBV, including gang rape by male youth especially of older women when
they are drunk, marital rape, and domestic violence.

High alcohol consumption also influences poverty. On one hand, local brew ­ pombe
kinenyeje ­ provides a livelihood and income for wasimbe232. Whereas on the other
hand, husbands and fathers spending money on alcohol deprives the household of
money. This was reported in Tanzanian villages around refugee camps in Kibondo

231
      Women in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement
232
      Wasimbe ­ older women without husbands - divorcees, widows, spinsters

                                                   198
                                                                                TANZANIA Country Report


District as a cause of household poverty. Household poverty caused women to barter
sex for money, food, lifts, gifts and drinks.

 Social and Economic Gatherings
In all sites assessed and with both Burundian refugees and Tanzanian host
populations, gathering venues and events, both social and economic, in which a large
number of men, women and youth congregate sexual activity can result. Examples
include all-night, week-long Sukuma tribal dances around Ulyankulu Settlement, which
brought Tanzanians and Burundian refugees together; the markets in Ulyankulu
Settlement; bars and discos in all sites; and sports events. Alcohol consumption and
sexual activity are usually high.

In refugee camps, traditional celebrations have changed in nature due to the
breakdown in social structures, and the ever-present idleness such that weddings and
funerals are now occasions lasting up to 7 days that are seen as a form of
entertainment to relieve the monotony of camp-life ­ to eat, drink, socialize, and an
opportunity to engage in sex.

 Availability of Women who engage in Sexual Activities
On of the reasons for the extent of high risk sexual behavior is opportunity ­ of women
willing to engage in sex; and of men who can pay for the sex act in some manner.
Women who engage in promiscuous sexual practices fall into 2 categories ­ (i) regular
commercial sex workers233 (forms of prostitutes), and (ii) women and female youth
seeking gain for sex, either as a coping mechanism to help support their families, or for
personal gain.

Commercial and casual sex workers were present in all sites studied in Tanzania.
However, the numbers and types varied. They were present in the highest number in
sites of commerce or transport where male traders with money were found, or where
there is a concentration of military/security personnel - Kasanda, a Tanzanian town on
the major highway in Kibondo District; and Kaswa Trading Centre in Ulyankulu
Refugee Settlement, a major market centre in Tabora Region.

In Kaswa in Ulyankulu Settlement, Tanzanian commercial sex workers come into the
Settlement seasonally during the tobacco harvest and sales (May ­ July); and at
weekends for the Saturday market. In these places, as well as in other sites, the
presence of moneyed men presents a livelihood opportunity for poor Tanzanian and
refugee women to become sex workers. The average price for sex with a commercial
girl was 5,000 shillings but this varied according to the apparent wealth of the client and
the volume of clients. For example, in Ulyankulu Settlement, on market days the price
for one "sex action" was 5,000 shillings but
                                                  Refugees in Kanembwa Camp reported:
decreased to 2,000 shillings on non-market
days.                                             "Policemen they are all very smart and
                                                  officious. After the sun goes down they come
Widespread presence of military and               back [to the Camp] and they are running after
security    personnel     in     north-western    our girls."
Tanzania was number one on the list of
most promiscuous in Mukugwa-Kilemba, Tanzanian village, near Kanembwa Camp, as
seen in the textbox. These security personnel have money, and frequent bars in the
refugee camps and local villages. Local girls reported that the majority of these

233
    Definitions of "malaya" (prostitutes or sex workers) differed across the sites. In Ulyankulu, Settlement
women said that these malaya could be distinguished because they "wear short skirts, or trousers while
even though they are women, they do their hair differently and their faces look different - they have no
restrictions on moving around". For men, malaya were women who frequently engaged in sex acts, either
commercially or casually.

                                                    199
Social and Gender Assessment


personnel prefer sex without condoms. Also staff from the agencies working in (and for)
the refugee camps are also moneyed clients of commercial sex workers, particularly
those in Kasanda town.

Commercial sex work is a hidden but thriving business in Mtendeli and Kanembwa
refugee camps. The case of Mariam, featured in Case Study 7 in Annex 5, typifies this
livelihood. Commercial sex workers do work in the camps occurred on market days,
targeting traders as clients, and also in Kasanda on non-market days, targeting drivers,
traders and salaried men. Prostitution was reported to be a poor business in the camps
as refugee men have little money, paying only between 200 and 500 shillings per
"action". Women move to Kasanda and other towns where the business is better.

Female youth between 15 and 20 years in the Kibondo Camps and in Ulyankulu
Refugee Settlement, reported engaging in multiple sexual encounters as a means to
obtain clothes, lotions, spending money, or kudos of being seen with a "salaried man".
While this behavior was also reported in Uyowa Tanzanian community, it did not seem
so prominent. Older men reported that younger women and girls (15 ­ 20 years) are in
demand sexually as they provide a rejuvenating experience.


                                            POVERTY
In this Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS in Refugees in Tanzanian, poverty
was cited by all populations studied as influencing the spread of HIV/AIDS. Although,
the dimensions and causes of this poverty differed between populations, the
manifestations were similar. Three causes were found for the poverty that exists in the
populations assessed: (i) Limited livelihood opportunities in all refugee and host
populations; (i) Displacement / encampment in the case of the encamped refugees;
and (iii) isolation and remoteness in the Tanzanian host communities visited. . From the
data collected, the researchers concluded that women face the greatest burden of this
poverty, particularly in refugee camps.

In the case of old caseload Burundian refugees in Ulyankulu Settlement, many of
whom have been in Tanzania for 32 years and are settled in their own houses and
small shambas (farms), are still
effected by the insecurity that      Many refugees in Ulyankulu Settlement expressed anger
displaced them from their            at the GoT, especially over its change of policy in the
homeland.        They      feel    a 1990s ­ first welcoming them to Tanzanian like
powerlessness to fully control       Tanzanians and now treating them as outsiders confined
their        lives;       livelihood to the Settlement. Strong feelings were expressed,
opportunities are limited; their     such as:
movement out of the settlement       "The problem is our status of being a refugee ­ we
is restricted, especially for rural
                                     cannot get out of the settlement".
"peasants"234, and they may be
harassed by Tanzanians and the       "A refugee cannot live a well-fed life."
Police in towns if they do move      "The Government of Tanzanian told us to live in
                      235
out of the settlement . This lack    brotherhood with the Tanzanians. But we are living as
of freedom of movement is            prisoners."
coupled with a desire of all
                                     "We are the of being refugees." We are tired feel
adults and youth to return to Burundi when tiredsituation is safe. They therefore of living
thwarted in planning for the future, and frustration with the GoT- as expressed in the
                                     in Ulyankulu."
adjoining textbox.                            - Community meeting of approximately 150
                                                   people in Kaswa, Ulyankulu
234
   Settlement Officer or Settlement Commandant is an employee of the MHA
235
   Refugees are easy to spot in Tabora because the women dress differently and have a strong accent
when speaking Kiswahili. They report the locals pointing them out, saying: "That is a refugee. Where is
your permission"?

                                                 200
                                                                         TANZANIA Country Report


These feelings of not belonging and powerlessness, and the lack of opportunity are
interlinked to idleness in the dry season, poverty, and alcohol consumption. As
discussed above, idleness and alcohol consumption were direct factors leading to
extra-marital sex usually without a condom.

The tension between the host communities in Tanzania and the refugee populations
also adds stress to the lives of the refugees
in both Mtendeli and Kanembwa camps in         "You could be raped by someone who then
Kibondo, and in Ulyankulu Settlement.
                                               goes on to say to you: ,,That after all, ,,you
Many refugees pointed out that the host
                                               are just a refugee." Woman, Kanembwa
communities did not only look down upon
them and mock them, but that their rights      Camp
were often not recognized as they have no
recourse to fair treatment, especially when caught outside the camp and in relation to
SGBV, as highlighted by the quote in the textbox.

In the Tanzanian village of Uyowa neighboring Ulyankulu Settlement, tension exists
because "refugees are spreading to Uyowa
                                                 "Refugees are the main cause of the
[village] to grow crops and tobacco, and run
businesses, such as tailoring." Locals think     banditry that we witness in this area [of
refugees should remain in the Settlement and     Kibondo]. Many of them are ex-combatants
not take opportunities that rightfully should go and they sneak into the country with guns in
to Tanzanians from the community. Local          order to make quick money through robbery.
communities in Kibondo District blame            The answer to addressing this problem of
banditry on refugees- as indicated in the        banditry is through asking them [the
adjoining textbox- although conversely local     refugees] to leave." Kibondo District
Tanzanians admit that the local economy          Official
depends on the presence of the refugee
camps and on the availability of refugees as cheap sources of labor and as cheap
wives.

In addition, political and communal tensions exist against the refugees in north-western
Tanzania. Accusations include refugees contributing to insecurity, the proliferation of
small arms, impact on the environment, the economy and infrastructure around the
areas of camps come from the public and highest levels of Government. Most of these
accusations seem to be baseless according to a recent report by The Centre for the
Study of Forced Migration at the University of Dar es Salaam236. These tensions,
compounded by congestion, idleness, restriction of movement, and the powerlessness
described above were said to cause psychological stress amongst the refugees in
Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps. Such stress can be relieved by sex, alcohol and
social gatherings. All factors identified as contributing to the transmission of HIV within
the refugee populations studied and the Tanzanian host communities visited.

Unlike the situation in Tanzanian villages and Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement,
encamped refugees reported loss of social capital as a factor increasing vulnerability to
HIV transmission. This social poverty had two aspects - (i) break-up of families and
loss of the family as a strong social institution; and (ii) the loss of the normal traditional
societal checks and balances that existed in Burundi.

Families have been separated during their flight from Burundi. The traditional support
network of the extended family has been lost. The younger generation does not have
the sources of support and advice from "aunts" and "uncles". Spouses find a new
partner in the camps, but then this new family may be split up on reunification and
repatriation. Because polygamy is not allowed in Burundi, the unions that most people
have now are considered to be temporary, with implications for vulnerability. In

236
      The Impact of the Presence of Refugees in North-Western Tanzania

                                                   201
Social and Gender Assessment


addition, youth have lost respect for their parents and elders. They roam around the
camp and settlement ­ boys freely and girls when they can get out of the house.
Opportunities for sex amongst youth are taken.

Secondly, as a result of translocation and encampment, the sense of community has
been lost, as has the traditional societal checks and balances have been lost. These
factors influence high-risk sexual activity in that the prudence and sense of propriety
usually exhibited around sexual activity and conversation disappears. Traditional
ceremonies, such as weddings and funerals in Mtendeli and Kanembwa refugee
camps, and the Sukuma dances in Ulyankulu area also provide occasions for drinking
alcohol and sex.

Older Burundians is Ulyankulu Settlement also complained that living as refugees has
"chased away traditions", which would be rectified if they returned to Burundi ­
"everyone could carry out their [traditional] responsibilities". Changes in traditional
norms included adolescents not respecting their parents ­ "the parents say something
and they do not listen" - particularly with regard to abstinence from sex. The older folk
add that behavior to one another has also changed since being displaced from
Burundi. Discipline and respect of reach other has diminished, which contributes to the
promiscuity and infidelity apparent in the refugee camps and in Ulyankulu Settlement,
particularly during the past 10 years.

 Limited Livelihood Opportunities
Household economic poverty is related primarily to limited livelihood opportunities. For
new caseload Burundian refugees living in camps, livelihood opportunity is constrained
primarily by encampment, restricted movement, and limited skills. For old caseload
refugees living in Ulyankulu Settlement, restricted movement outside the settlement,
remoteness, lack of capital and skills, poor soils and seasonality of rainfall limit
livelihoods opportunities. In the rural Tanzanian host communities assessed,
livelihoods are restricted as a result of remoteness and isolation of the community,
reliance on seasonal rain, under service by local government programs and services,
and limited education and skills.

As discussed in the preceding chapters, in Ulyankulu Settlement and in the 3
Tanzanian communities visited, agriculture was the dominant livelihood, which was
limited to the rainy season. In refugee camps, livelihood activities are limited to
employment with agencies working in the camps or petty business for a few as land is
not available for cultivation. Casual labor for refugees outside the camps is no longer
allowed due to the removal of the 4km radius rule in which refugees could move up to
4km outside their camp of residence in order to seek food and casual work Incidentally,
the repercussions of the removal of the 4km rule were reported to be increased
incidence of rape outside the camp (women have no recourse as they are outside the
camp illegally), and increased problems for encamped refugees to obtaining additional
quantities and varieties of food.

The situation of limited livelihood opportunities results in two major factors directly
influencing the transmission of HIV: (i) People are idle, which is linked to alcohol
consumption, and the sexual practices discussed above; and (ii) transactional sex by
women who wish to gain resources for the family or for herself, as discussed below.

 Poverty of Women
Inter-related and driving the vulnerability to HIV infection in women in refugee and host
populations is the relative poverty [omasikini] that burdens women. Three factors ­ (i)
household poverty; (ii) limited livelihood and income-generation opportunities for
women; and (iii) gender roles and responsibilities of women - drive the poverty situation

                                          202
                                                                              TANZANIA Country Report


that pushes women into largely unprotected sex for gain. The dimensions of these
factors differ between the 3 groups ­ old caseload Burundian refugees, new caseload
Burundian refugees and Tanzanian host populations - but the impacts are similar.

As discussed above, even though households are poor in all sites visited, the provision
of food and basic necessities for the family falls to women, particularly when husbands
are not able to adequately provide. In poor rural villages, refugee camps and the
Ulyankulu Settlement, few opportunities are available for women to gain income or
other livelihood needs237. One opportunity is the presence of men with money who are
willing to exchange money or goods for sex ­ traders, miners, NGO and UN workers,
drivers, road construction workers, civil servants, military personnel, to name a few.

Encamped refugee women ­ married, youth, widowed, single mothers - were reported
to sell themselves for sex in return for small cash sums (500 to 5,000 shillings), clothes,
slippers, or food as the need occurs. Schoolgirls use their bodies to obtain extra food
for their families, clothes and pocket money, as well as to obtain good marks from
teachers in school in Kanembwa Refugee Camp238.

This sex bartering also "happens            much" in Ulyankulu Settlement, where different
degrees of need drive women to
engage in sex for gain. Married             "When you have nothing in your home and you are
and single women with children              facing hunger. Thats when you can decide to carry out
mainly     engaged      in   sex            these acts [sex] to get anything." Woman in Kaswa
sporadically when they were
                                            Trading Centre, Ulyankulu Settlement
desperate for food or other basic
necessities - which included
school fees for children, bribes            "When the husband is living in a hopeless situation, the
for court cases, and local                  woman is forced to go outside to seek for gain."
government contributions ­ as               Women in Kaswa Trading Centre, Ulyankulu Settlement
demonstrated in the adjoining
textbox.

In Ulyankulu Settlement and Uyowa village, other women engaged in sex for personal
gain ("tamaa") because they "admired things" that they could not normally afford.
Particularly female youth and Vocational Education and Training Association (VETA)239
students were said to "desire modern life and to have nice things". They have sex for
money (as little as 100/-) and "gifts" (clothes, kitengi, shoes, lotion or soap). Female
youth in the refugee camps visited in Kibondo District were also reported by male youth
to engage in sex for tama (see Case Study 12, Annex 5). Others took temporary
"boyfriends" for economic security. In Mtendeli Camp, some women were said to have
several "temporary husbands" at any one time ­ one giving sugar, another meat and so
on.

In Kibondo District, sex bartering did not feature in host communities. Possibly the
reasons being that the host community have some livelihoods, societal structures to
deal with abuse, and women threaten to leave husbands if he does not provide. In
Ulyankulu Division, sex bartering did feature in the neighboring Tanzanian village of
Uyowa, although primarily only in a few very poor single mothers and in adolescent girl
wanting goods that they, or their families, could not afford to provide. Older men were
said to give honey, a bicycle, soap, body lotion and money to young girls for sex.

237
     Refugee camps- the "legitimate" livelihood opportunities for women include petty trading, market
selling, working for NGO or UN programs
   Ulyankulu refugees - the "legitimate" livelihood opportunities for women include petty trading, market
selling, and agriculture
   Host communities ­ petty trading and agriculture
238
    Teachers were ranked the second most frequent group involved in sex with women/girls
239
    VETA ­ a tertiary Technical College

                                                  203
Social and Gender Assessment



Other women find livelihood opportunities in bars and mama ntilies, where they are
frequently requested for, and accept, sex from customers. Wasimbe - older women
without a husband - brew and sell local pombe alcohol. They too engage in sex for
extra funds and to keep customers. Still other women choose to engage in casual sex
(where a woman regularly frequents bars and engages in sex for food, alcohol and
whatever else the man wants to offer) or commercial sex (negotiated sex for money,
which is the primary livelihood of the woman). The majority of women said that if they
had an opportunity or capital they would ,,get out of this sex business.

 Inadequacy of Food
An inadequate supply of food, in quantity, variety and quality, existed in the Mtendeli
and Kanembwa refugee Camps, particularly women with families. The ration supplied
by WFP is often less than the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended
quantity of 2,100 kilocalories because of supply chain problems and reportedly the
GoTs reduction of aid for encamped refugees240. Refugees must seek alternative food,
particularly fruits and vegetables independently ­ either outside the camps or in
markets within the camps.

The inadequate food supply and inability to grow food or earn incomes to buy sufficient
food, forces women and men to leave the camps illegally to forage for food, firewood
and casual labor opportunities. Foraging outside the camp places both men and
women in vulnerable positions. Women may be raped or forced to barter sex for food.
Men may be arrested and imprisoned- as indicated in Annex 5.

For refugees in Ulyankulu Settlement, food availability is seasonal for the poorest
households as a result of the seasonality of agriculture production, poor storage
methods, and infertile soils that produce low yields. Women here also engage in sex
bartering for food or some money by their own admission.

Gender roles demand that women must "bring food for the household". For Burundian
refugee women in camps visited and in Ulyankulu Settlement, sex bartering and
involvement in casual or commercial sex work are options to finding the food their
families require or finding some money to provide for them. Sex-bartering featured
most strongly in the camps.


                  ADEQUACY OF HIV/AIDS AND HEALTH SERVICES
Inadequacy of GoT health and HIV/AIDS services, in terms of access and quality, in all
Tanzanian villages and in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement is a factor contributing to HIV
transmission in these populations and between these communities and Burundians
refugees in the study sites. In addition, most HIV/AIDS programs, including those in
refugee camps in North-Western Tanzania, are not yielding the expected outcomes, as
discussed below.

 Access and Quality of Health Care Services
In general, access to adequate health care was a factor influencing the prevention,
care and treatment of HIV/AIDS in all except refugee camps. Facilities were up to 5
hours walk from the site, for example in Uyowa village. While in other Tanzanian
villages and parts of Ulyankulu Settlement, although physical access is better, service
quality was limited, expensive and long travel to District Hospitals is required for
emergency or serious cases. This assessment revealed that these local health centers
and dispensaries lacked drugs and materials, lacked supervision from district health
240
      The Impact of the Presence of Refugees in North-Western Tanzania, 2003

                                                   204
                                                                                 TANZANIA Country Report


services, employed some staff with dubious capabilities as far as HIV care and
prevention was concerned, and in other cases, overloaded competent staff ­ as was
the case in Ulyankulu Health Centre.

STI prevalence was reportedly high in all areas241, indicating that unprotected sexual
practices were occurring and that STI management services were not reaching the
population and/or the population was not reaching the services. Case presentation has
been increasing incrementally since the establishment of the STI Management
Program in Ulyankulu Health Centre in December 2003242. Regrettably, STI drugs had
run out at the time of the researchers visit and the Health Centre was awaiting a new
government protocol for supplying drugs.

Stigma prohibited people from testing for HIV, particularly in Tanzanians villages in
Kibondo District. Campaigns to reduce stigma have been successful in Ulyankulu
Settlement and in Kibondo District refugee camps, and may provide models for
reducing stigma in the Tanzanian communities. Promotion of the benefits of HIV testing
and positive living may also assist in the acceptance of testing by such communities.

Physical access to VCT services also limited testing in all except refugee camps.
Hopefully the VCT centre opened on 22 July 2004 in Ulyankulu Settlement will improve
accessibility, although no staff members have been recently trained in counseling, and
existing staff are likely to be over-burdened243. Further, HIV testing and counseling are
supposed to be free services in Tanzanian MoH facilities, however local people
reported being charged "kitu kidogo" (something small) to obtain their results. This
payment was reported as a deterrent to youth and the poor in accessing the VCT
services. In addition, lack of trained staff limits the effective delivery of VCT services,
and consequently a factor influencing HIV spread. For example, there are only 4
trained counselors in the entire district of Kibondo to serve a population of over
280,000 Tanzanians.

 Condom Accessibility and Reach
In Tanzania, dispensaries and health centers are provided condoms for free distribution
to local populations. In theory, such a system is commendable; however flaws in the
implementation were noted. Condom availability at health facilities was not reliable244,
as a result of supply chain problems from District stores. Where there is no government
health facility, such as in Uyowa village, there is no free supply of condoms.

Where condoms were available in health facilities, many people were actually unable to
access them. Some married men would not request condoms from health professions
for fear of being judged as adulterous. And in most sites, women do not collect or buy
condoms other than in maternity clinics in Ulyankulu Health Centre - "it would feel
strange for a woman to be seen going to collect condoms from the health centre" ­
because of the shame and possibility of being labeled a "malaya" (prostitute).
Collecting condoms from health facilities requires dialogue directly with health workers
­ collection is not discrete. Some dispensaries were reported to sell condoms at


241
     Ulyankulu Health Centre Clinical Officers cited high STI prevalence, although statistics were not
available. 132 patients have presented in first 6 months of 2004. A private clinical officer reported that he
sees very many STI patients ­ more men than women- because they prefer the anonymity of his private
clinic. In Kibondo District, the District Medical Officer expressed concern at the high numbers of STI cases
presenting at the hospital ­ 1,326 reported cases in 2003 (a population prevalence of 0.5 percent- which
would be a gross underestimate)
242
    Number of STI cases in first 6 months is 132
243
    In the first 2 days of operation, 40 patients passed through the VCT centre
244
    Condom supply had run out in one of the 2 health facilities visited in Ulyankulu Settlement, reportedly
because the condom supply had run out in the District store

                                                    205
Social and Gender Assessment


between 100 and 300 shillings per condom. Young men in all sites had no problems in
going to ask for condoms in the health centre.

In the refugee camps in Kibondo District, awareness of HIV/AIDS is high, condoms are
readily available and they are an accepted means of preventing HIV and STIs.
However, condoms are not used in all sexual acts outside of marriage. The UNHCR
Medical Coordinator reported that the demand and use of condoms in the camps is far
below the supply of condoms, and therefore concluded that use of condoms is not high.

In addition in the refugee camps, female condoms were available but the demand was
low. Women reported that the factors limiting the acceptance of female condom is that
they are too complicated to use, they are noisy during intercourse, men do not like
them, and they cannot be used without the male partners knowledge.

 Health Education
Globally, peer education has proved an effective method of raising awareness of HIV
and AIDS, and of supporting behavior change. However, except in the case of
encamped refugees, it appears that the premise - "training and deploying peer
educators will lead to a significant reduction in HIV transmission" - is flawed. This
assessment highlighted deficiencies the health education system in Tanzania, except
in the case of primary and secondary schools. Inadequacies appeared in the quality of
training, selection of educators, number of peer educators deployed, motivation,
support, supervision and monitoring.

The situation in Ulyankulu Settlement, which relies on GoT services, aptly illustrates
the above point. In the settlement, some peer educators have been trained by local
NGOs, and local government functionaries have received training by the District Health
Services. While the above training has yielded at least 3 systems of education on
HIV/AIDS, the majority of the more than 400 people interviewed in the Settlement were
not aware of the existence of these educators. There was no report that any of these
educators had held a public "seminar" on HIV/AIDS ­ the only seminar had been held
by an NGO in 2003.

In early 2004, HIV/AIDS Committees were established in each village. The 4 committee
members received training as peer educators from NGOs at District level. Most of
these committees have been inactive. For example, in Usigala village in Ulyankulu
Refugee Settlement, no seminars had been held because the peer educators "had not
been facilitated with transport". In Uyowa Tanzanian village, the committee were
waiting for the next training so they would know what to do next ­ they had "already
distributed the condoms" given six months ago. The peer educators interviewed in
Ulyankulu Settlement, and Uyowa, Kasanda and Mukugwa-Kilemba Tanzanian villages
were not motivated, and they were operating on their own ­ unsupervised and
unsupported, except for a 3-monthly seminar in the local dispensary, which many could
not attend due to the transport and opportunity costs. No monitoring of the work of peer
educators is performed, let alone monitoring the impact on behavior change. However,
local dispensaries still report on progress of the committees as it is one of the
indicators on their monthly reports to the District. In one dispensary in Ulyankulu
Refugee Settlement, the Clinical Officer in-charge has been reporting good
implementation of HIV control activities and even reported positive behavior change to
the District Hospital245. In this case, the researchers had visited the village in question
and found the HIV/AIDS committee to be inactive.

245
    In Kanindo Dispensary in Ulyankulu Settlement, a clinical officer reported to the researcher (and to
Urambo District Hospital) that the peer educators in Usigala village were working well and high-risk sexual
behaviour had decreased in recent months. However, the researcher found that peer educators were not
delivering education in Usigala and high-risk behaviour was high

                                                   206
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report


Other factors that limit full awareness and behavior change programs include the
messages that are delivered regarding HIV/AIDS, and the mode of delivery of those
messages. The researchers found that messages that were erroneous and incomplete-
see Case Study 15, Annex 5. The mechanism of message delivery, where delivery
occurred, was selective. Educators were not necessarily peers of high-risk groups, or
respected persons in the communities. No IEC materials were seen outside the
refugee camps, apart from shared textbooks in schools. Radios were a major source
of information but in most cases men control radios ­ hence control information from
this source to women.

 Overall Deficiencies in GoT HIV/AIDS Programs
Despite efforts at national and local levels in Tanzania, the above assessment revealed
that several factors influencing HIV transmission continue to exist. These include the
following:
        Village level HIV/AIDS Committees were either not in existence or were non-
        functional
        HIV/AIDS activities at community level were ad hoc, infrequent, uncoordinated
        and not involving all stakeholders
        HIV/AIDS education to communities was very limited due to limited capacity at
        community level
        Condoms are available free through dispensaries, but supplies often ran out,
        and other distributors were limited
        In some areas, traditional birth attendants had not been trained on HIV and
        universal precautions
        VCT services were not available in the village vicinity and negative perceptions
        towards the test existed
        STI management was constrained by shortages of drugs in public health
        facilities and lack of trained personnel
        Malnutrition and food insecurity
        IEC materials were rarely available
        PLWHAs did not declare their status publicly, and there were no mechanisms in
        place to assist HIV/AIDS affected and infected people, except family care
        Reproductive health services limited and no PMTCT
        Orphans not assisted to attend secondary school

 UNHCR Programs
In refugee camps in north-western Tanzania, UNHCR has implemented intensive
HIV/AIDS program since 2001. Although, no surveys were available, one health worker
in Mtendeli Camp estimated that at least 90 percent of all refugees in the camp had
heard of HIV/AIDS from health workers, the radio, or peers.

Two issues are raised by the researchers in relation to this excellent program. Firstly,
refugees complained that the belated commencement of the UNHCR program allowed
HIV spread to occur unabated for the many years prior to 2001. One participant in
Mtendeli Camp asked: "UNHCR, where were you when the fire was burning?"
Secondly, it was noted by the researchers that there is little harmony internally between
programs operating under the UNHCR ­ eg. Health (including SGBV, HIV/AIDS/STI
and reproductive health), education, community services, protection etc. Thus, UNHCR
may consider realigning its programs to the overall context so that all programs are
working towards one objective regarding HIV/AIDS, rather than each program
operating in a seemingly rigid vertical structure.

However, despite the need to learn from UNHCR and her implementing partners
programs, in general knowledge about HIV/AIDS does not appear to be sufficient to

                                          207
Social and Gender Assessment


significantly reduce high-risk behavior, and hence the transmission of HIV.
Revitalization of the design, implementation and monitoring of the standard menu of
interventions, particularly for prevention, to focus on behavior change rather than
awareness-raising, and on outcome / impact monitoring of such change is vital.
Thinking outside the box of standard programs is also vital to addressing the root
causes of high-risk sexual practices (as further discussed in Chapter 6).

 Monitoring
This assessment found discrepancies in the method of information collection, analysis
and reporting of prevalence data. For example, we were not able to determine a
breakdown of HIV prevalence between Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps and the
Kibondo District population. In addition, figures reported by District Officials and
UNHCR for the year of 2003 varies between reports received.

In Ulyankulu Settlement, a clinical officer-in-charge of one dispensary regularly reports
to Urambo District Medical Officer that peer education is having positive reports, even
though peer educators are not working at all in some villages. Further, monitoring in
general but specifically in GoT run health services, where it exists, is input and process
based, rather than focusing on the outcomes, such as behavior change.


                               GENDER DISPARITIES
From the findings of the assessment, women were more vulnerable to HIV infection
and transmission than men. The researchers concluded that women engage in sex for
personal gain or in order provide the family with basic necessities. Although poverty
affects men and children, as well as women, women and girls often feel the brunt of
household poverty more than men and children due to the subordinate gender role they
face in the household and in society. Poverty was seen to lead many women,
especially in the refugee situations, to engage in high-risk sexual practices for their
well-being- the "survival" of their families.

A question that the researchers asked was - "Are these women driven to sexual
activities because they are poor or are they being used as instruments for gain?" There
is little evidence for the latter case, except that in Kanembwa Camp where some
mothers send their teenage daughters out to "make friends with soldiers and other paid
employees" so they can "come home with sugar, meat or other household
requirements".

While poverty also affects men, some of whom struggle to seek food and money for the
family, in the case of men, poverty is not a factor directly influencing the transmission of
HIV for men. However, time and time again it was reported that many men now shirk
what is still perceived as their traditional role as providers for the family. Such men are
found in the dry season in Tanzanian communities and Ulyankulu Settlement, as well
as year-round in the refugee camps. For these men, much time is spent idle, talking
and drinking alcohol, which can lead to high-risk sexual practices, as discussed above.
Such men were said to spend any money that they made on alcohol and sex, further
impoverishing the family.

For women, they are expected culturally to ensure that "food is on the table" for their
family and to meet other family obligations, such as school fees, when men cannot
provide. Livelihood opportunities are limited to both men and women. With
transactional sex, women have additional livelihood opportunities for providing for the
family ­ opportunities not open to their husbands. Therefore, women in the refugee
camp situations increasingly have to shoulder the responsibility of providing for the
household. They are therefore required to take all opportunities to do this, especially if

                                            208
                                                                          TANZANIA Country Report


their husband is no longer the key provider ­ encamped refugees and settled refugees
in the dry season. With limited livelihood alternative opportunities, women resort to
bartering sex for goods, food or money; entering into regular casual sex or commercial
sex work; or taking risks by foraging outside the camp.

The burden on women to provide household resources is exaggerated in the case of
encamped refugees where UNHCR and her partners provide food, shelter and other
basic necessities. This does have the effect of further eroding whatever traditional
provider role is ascribed to men.

The above situation is related and compounded by the subordinate role of women in
society, particularly in the case of rural and less well-educated settled Burundian
refugees. For example, away from the trading centre in Ulyankulu Settlement, women
were said to be "under the authority of men". This authority extended to the control of
household and productive resources, sale of grain, the planting of crops, as well as
sexual practice (women are the "passive recipients" of sex). Women said they had no
rights in the household in these cases "as men take all the income from the crop
harvest to spend on other women and alcohol" (Women in Uyowa Tanzanian village).
This unequal power relationship extends to sex. For example, in Usigala rural village in
Ulyankulu Settlement, women reported that their husbands move with other women
outside the marriage and they fear getting AIDS. They asked the researcher how to
prevent themselves from getting AIDS - this was their primary concern - as "they have
no way to resist having sex [with their husband] as the husband has the authority."

In the Tanzanian communities of Kasanda and Mukugwa-Kilemba near the Kibondo
District refugee camps, men also controlled information. As radios belong to men, and
the radio in these communities, as well as throughout Tanzania246, is the major source
of information on HIV/AIDS, the researchers found that adult women were poorly
informed about HIV transmission and prevention.

In addition to the above, traditional practices further heighten the vulnerability of
women and girls to HIV infection. Wife inheritance still continues, although often in a
corrupted form, amongst the Burundian refugees. In the refugee camps, their brother-
in-law or a neighbor may inherit widows. While in Ulyankulu Settlement, church
teachings have decreased the incidence of brother-in-laws physically taking the widow
as a second wife. However, the family of the dead man still assigns one brother to
watch over and take care of the widow. It was reported that this brother-in-law may
demand sex from the widow, under the threat of ceasing assistance if she refuses.

Early and forced marriages are other practices amongst Burundians that increase girls
vulnerability. Early marriages were ostensibly "to prevent the girl from getting spoilt" but
also in order to attract some income to the family. These early and forced marriages
often lead to separation with some of these young brides in the refugee camps having
several partners by the time they were in their early twenties. If such a girl has a child,
one option is to engage in commercial sex work to support herself and her children.

Sexual and gender-based violence remains a problem/challenge in Kibondo District
refugee camps despite the implementation of a SGBV program247 by UNHCR and its
partners248 since 1996. Rape of mainly Burundian women occurred both within the
camp and outside and was reportedly perpetrated by both Burundian and Tanzanian

246
    MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2004. Behavioral Surveillance Surveys Among Youths, 2002. National AIDS
Control Programme; and MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2003. HIV/AIDS/STI Surveillance Report: March
2003. National AIDS Control Programme; Report Number 17
247
    SGBV program is a comprehensive approach to "preventing SGBV, and providing legal, medical and
psychological support for the victims". It was commenced in 1996.
248
    UNHCR Partners - IRC (NGO responsible for Preventive and Curative Health Care, SGBV, and
Community Services in the camps), the Police, the MHA, courts

                                                209
Social and Gender Assessment


men. Host and refugee populations blame each other for this. Domestic violence and
marital rape was most often associated with drunkenness and extra-marital affairs. And
defilement of minors and young adolescents was reportedly pronounced, especially in
instances where young people were left alone at home when parents go to forage for
food. Unaccompanied adolescents and minors often face sexual exploitation and
abuse when they are "employed" as house-girls by NGO and Government employees,
and alternatively as sexual partners.




                                         210
                                                                    TANZANIA Country Report



                              CHAPTER 8: CONCLUSIONS

It emerges from the Social and Gender Assessment of HIV/AIDS in Refugees in
Tanzania that the factors influencing HIV transmission are inter-related and complex.
They cannot be addressed in isolation. Further, this assessment reminds us that
refugees are not a homogeneous population. Not only are they different nationalities
and religions, but they live in different situations, with differing dynamics, history, sub-
culture, such as the differences between the refugee camps and the designated
settlements in Tanzania.

Our findings indicate the high extent of high-risk sexual practice currently taking place
in the Burundian refugee populations studied and in the Tanzanian populations who
live near refugee areas or those who interact with refugees. This high-risk sexual
behavior, in the form of high levels of unprotected sex with multiple partners outside of
permanent, faithful unions, was evident both in populations regardless of the level of
HIV/AIDS awareness present in the population. The fact that high-risk sexual behavior
occurs despite knowledge of the dangers of HIV infection and AIDS, indicates
HIV/AIDS programs are limited in effectiveness and / or the root causes of such
behavior are not being addressed.

Therefore, obviously knowledge of HIV and AIDS, as well as attitudes to prevention
and sex, as well as sexual practices influences the spread of HIV/AIDS. Two other
categories of factors influencing the spread include poverty and inadequacy of health
services and HIV/AIDS programs.

Directly, high risk sexual behavior occurs at the acceptance of promiscuous behavior,
which is influenced by the following factors:

       Opportunity - women willing to engage in sex and men with the means to
       compensate these women for their actions
       Reported personal inability of youth to abstain from sex and the high levels of
       infidelity, particularly in the two refugee situations
       Idleness of men in the dry season for farmers in the host communities and in
       the designated refugee settlement
       Alcohol consumption, especially in social situations and gatherings, leading to
       drunkenness and irresponsible sexual behavior
       Breakdown in family structure, particularly parental control of adolescents, in all
       populations, but especially in the refugee camps
       Weakened social institutions, particularly in refugee camps, but also to some
       extent in Ulyankulu Settlement, which has diminished the checks and balances
       traditionally surrounding sexual actions and alcohol consumption

Multi-dimensional poverty ­ e.g. economic, social, "emotional" poverty, poverty of
information, security and opportunity ­ was found to be a factor indirectly influencing
the vulnerability to HIV/AIDS in both refugee populations studied, as well as in the host
populations. This poverty is caused by (i) displacement and encampment in the case of
new caseload Burundian refugees, (ii) limited livelihood opportunities in all populations,
particularly leading to women to engage in transactional sex to provide resources for
their families or for personal gain, and (iii) geographic isolation and remoteness in the
case of the host populations studied.

Lastly, even excellent HIV/AIDS programs such as those operated in the refugee
camps in Kibondo District, fall short of influencing major changes in high risk sexual
behavior. And although the GoT programs have community mechanisms in place to
educate and support the Tanzanian villages and designated refugee settlements, these

                                            211
Social and Gender Assessment


are largely non-functional on the ground in the communities visited under this
assessment. GoT STI and VCT also demonstrated operational problems that may limit
their effectiveness in reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS. In general, the poor quality and
distance to health facilities in the Tanzanian health care system also impacts negatively
on the spread of HIV/AIDS.

The above necessitates the need to assess the factors influencing HIV transmission in
different situations and to determine their inter-relatedness. This includes root causes /
driving factors and subsidiary causes / maintaining factors.

The social and gender assessment revealed that the situation surrounding HIV
transmission in the two refugee populations and the host populations studied is a
complex one, in which multiple factors influencing transmission interact with one
another. Thus, indicating that factors influencing the transmission of HIV in these
populations should be viewed in a broader context in a holistic manner. This means
that interventions to reduce HIV transmission should be holistic considering all factors
and be specific to the historical, cultural and location context and the group of people
targeted. This will be examined in the next chapter.




                                           212
                                                                          TANZANIA Country Report



                            CHAPTER 9: RECOMMENDATIONS

                                       INTRODUCTION
The recommendations presented in this chapter are a culmination of the requests and
suggestions from those consulted during this social and gender assessment, the
analysis of the researcher team, and the results of the stakeholder feedback
workshops held in Kibondo District, Ulyankulu Ward and Dar es Salaam. In this
chapter, broad recommendations for prevention and control of HIV/AIDS are presented
in three focus areas, followed by sections that provide specific recommendations for
each of the three displaced populations. The research team has suggested specific
stakeholders to address specific recommendations- this is solely the opinion of the
researchers.

In order to adequately reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the Great Lakes Region, three
areas of focus should be considered, or reconsidered, to ensure populations of the
GLR- both displaced and host- are aware of the issues surrounding HIV and AIDS; are
empowered to protect themselves, their families and their communities from infection;
and are able to care for those who are infected with the virus. These three areas
include:

      1. Thinking outside the box and ensuring a broad, holistic and contextualized
         approach to programming
      2. Revitalizing the standard approaches to preventing HIV transmission to build
         positively on initiatives already underway
      3. Harmonization of policies, programs and stakeholders involved in prevention,
         care and treatment of HIV/AIDS.

Several factors cut across these three areas:

         Gender ­addressing disparities between men and women
         Mobility - the displacement and non-permanence of displaced populations and
         their eventual repatriation to places of origin
         The context within which the population originates, events that occurred en
         route, and the context of the current place of refugee.
         The fact that eventually refugees will be repatriated to Burundi, including those
         who have been settled in Tanzania in the designated settlements for over 30
         years.

 Expanding the Scope of Current Approaches ­ Thinking Outside the Box
From the researchers observations, the current approach to prevention of HIV
transmission has a standard set of activities249, all of which may be necessary but
possibly not sufficient to reduce HIV transmission. This standard menu of activities
tends to be applied in all contexts with little adjustment for location and population
specific circumstances, or for the combination of factors driving the transmission of
HIV. Thus, the implementation of these programs is not actually focused changing
behavior ­ reducing high risk sexual practices. Therefore, the scope of prevention
programs must be broadened to target the factors that drive and maintain high risk
sexual behavior. This is especially pertinent in the cases where refugees knowledge of
HIV/AIDS and its prevention were high, and condoms were available but unprotected
sex with casual and multiple partners prevailed.


249
   Eg: training of community peer educators, introduction of STI management, opening of VCT centres,
provision of condoms, IEC materials

                                                213
Social and Gender Assessment


In refugee camps, prevention programs and services are well-established and
efficiently delivered by UNHCR implementing partners, the Tanzanian Red Cross
Society in the case of the camps assessed. Awareness and knowledge of HIV
transmission and prevention is high in all population sub-groups, however, high-risk
sexual practices continue. Therefore, the following question was asked: "Why are
people who are aware of HIV/AIDS still practicing high-risk behaviors". The answer is
twofold: (i) current activities and approaches alone are not working or are insufficient to
reduce high-risk behavior in many instances; and (ii) the focus of programs appears to
be on the set of activities rather than on the persons affected or vulnerable to
HIV/AIDS, such that when the activities are not working, implementers often just
increase the intensity and number of those same activities. Based on this, HIV/AIDS
programs must be contextualized and must address the root causes ­ the combination
of factors ­ that drive individuals to behave in a manner that makes them vulnerable to
HIV infection. In the above example, many women resort to sexual activity purely due
to the circumstances of poverty in which they find themselves and their family.
Addressing the root causes of this high-risk behavior would mean addressing the
reasons these women need to barter or to sell sex ­ household poverty and insufficient
food and other resources to sustain the family.

By inference, the complexity of factors described in this report needs thorough
understanding and a holistic approach that is commensurate. In addition, different
categories of people come from different countries and cultural, religious and historical
background; and live in settings with different dynamics and characteristics ­ climatic,
geographic, political, social, economic, and administrative. This means that the
permutations of factors driving HIV transmission are specific to the circumstance of
each group in each setting. For example, in Tanzania, the displacement and
confinement to a camp or settlement has different implications for the Burundian
refugees in the Kibondo camps compared to those living in designated settlements in
Ulyankulu. In the Kibondo camps, encampment has lead to congestion, lack of privacy,
no land for cultivation, very limited opportunities for livelihoods and income generation,
and restriction of movement out of the camp. Whereas, in Ulyankulu refugees have an
ability to cultivate food but due to the climatic conditions yield is poor and seasonal so
poverty still prevails, restriction to movement means that alternative opportunities
cannot be pursued, and livelihood opportunities in the dry season and for women are
limited.

The specific recommendations include:
     i)    A holistic and conceptualized approach in which programs are tailored to
           the different circumstances in which displaced people and local populations
           live, as well as the different characteristics of each population.
     ii)   Broadening the menu of activities under HIV prevention so that the root
           causes of high-risk behavior or vulnerability to HIV infection are addressed.
     iii)  Approaches should be people-centered rather than activity-centered.
           Therefore, programs should be founded on a firm understanding and
           acceptance of the actuality on the ground, of people's perceptions, their
           realities, their opportunities to engage in the intervention, and their
           constraints to engagement.
     iv)   Focus on behavior change rather than awareness-raising. The approach
           should be designed from the "bottom-up" rather the "top-down" of the
           current delivery of services and prevention interventions, and should be one
           of health promotion rather than health education ­ which will deal with
           empowerment and will have a "monitorable" outcome.

All of the points above should be considered and integrated with other standard
activities in the design, implementation and monitoring of HIV prevention programs.



                                           214
                                                                               TANZANIA Country Report


 Revitalizing Standard Approaches
The standard components of HIV prevention programs - namely IEC, peer education,
broader health promotion, condom distribution, STI management and VCT programs -
are all necessary for HIV prevention. However, from this assessment it was apparent
that program effectiveness is limited by narrow targeting, ineffective implementation,
weak or non-existent support and supervision, and limited monitoring, evening refugee
camps250 ,that concentrates on process and inputs rather than outcomes.

Many programs seem to be based on assumptions - such as "training and deploying
peer educators leads to a reduction in HIV transmission". Such assumptions need to be
tested in each specific situation. Training peer educators and sending them back into
their communities to raise-awareness may work well in some instances but in others it
might not.

Activities that need to be revisited include the following:
      i)     Peer education ­ selection, training, deployment and Operationalizing.
      ii)    HIV/AIDS message content, delivery (peer educators, IEC material),
             authority, frequency and freshness; as well as the appropriateness of
             messages to the context, and the completeness and accuracy of HIV/AIDS
             messages.
      iii)   HIV/AIDS message to ensure contextual appropriateness and to include life
             values and hope - reshape messages on HIV/AIDS to make them inclusive
             of the values of a persons life rather than a fear based message about
             dying from AIDS251, especially for population that have been through civil
             unrest, displacement and separation from their country, communities and
             families.
      iv)    Condom quality, availability and accessibility.
      v)     Reach and quality of VCT services, peoples knowledge of the services and
             their rights, and the stigma associated with visiting VCT centers. In addition,
             even where people know of VCT, utilization may not be high. Therefore,
             there is a need to promote the importance of testing and declaring status ­
             positive living, changed sexual behavior, access to life-prolonging drugs.
      vi)    Targeting of vulnerable groups - those engaging in high-risk behavior or
             vulnerable to HIV infection.
      vii) Adequate monitoring, such that in addition to process and input monitoring,
             indicators must be included to assess changes in group and individual
             behavior.

 Harmonization of Approaches
During the assessment in Tanzania, the researchers noted a disharmony in:
        Approaches to HIV/AIDS prevention
        HIV/AIDS messages
        Amongst practitioners
        Between stakeholders
        Between and within programs
        Between local, national and regional levels.

Therefore, a consistent, collaborative and well-coordinated approach is needed to
reduce the spread of HIV. Such an approach requires careful planning, ownership by
all stakeholders, and resources to ensure opportunities for building consensus on the


250
   Burns and Speigel
251
   For example, your life and the life of others matters and it ought to be preserved. You are an important
agent in the preservation of this generation and the next generation, preserving that life by a number of
practices

                                                   215
Social and Gender Assessment


most appropriate approaches for each population under each circumstance at all
levels.

A key example of disharmony was in Ulyankulu Settlement, where the content of the
HIV/AIDS message was inconsistent with the national policy and was inconsistent
between different educators. For example, the Community Development Officer did not
discuss condoms and actually told the community that they were only 75 percent
effective ­ a case of local government officials not promoting the national government
line. The understanding of many community members of the messages from the
Church (Pentecostal and Catholic) was that using condoms is a sin against God. The
GoT health facilities distribute condoms but give little education except to individual
patients as demanded. NGOs have their own methodologies and agendas. Those few
that have held seminars in Ulyankulu Settlement promote condoms but do not give
demonstrations. Hence, community members make up their own minds and take the
route that suits them ­ not using condoms.

Therefore, with regard to HIV/AIDS messages, it is necessary for the GOT and
implementing partners to create a situation in which all stakeholders are singing the
same message and are singing in tune. This approach would serve to ensure that all
people have all the information necessary to make an informed decision about high-risk
sexual behavior. A harmonized and coordinated effort is required on the part of
schools, church, NGOs/CBOs, children/youth groups, government departments, and
local government in order to ensure that there is ownership and buy-in of national
policies by all groups of stakeholders involved in HIV/AIDS education and
dissemination of information.

Coordination is imperative for approaches and activities to be harmonized. At a
national level, the coordination of HIV/AIDS activities is spearheaded by TACAIDS and
the NACP. But the extent to which the impact of this coordination is felt at lower levels
varies from district to district. In the specific districts where large populations of
refugees are found, such as Kibondo District, little supervision, coordination or other
support is seen and HIV/AIDS prevention activities are sparse in the District. The
Kibondo District has a HIV/AIDS strategy but funding, skilled staff and technical advice
all limit its implementation, reach and effectiveness.

Harmonizing HIV/AIDS interventions with existing community strategies and coping
mechanisms is also extremely important. Utilizing and building on existing mechanisms
for information flow, decision-making, mobilization, regulations, limiting the spread of
diseases, including HIV/AIDS, will provide communities with ownership of HIV
prevention, and will evoke cooperation and participation.

The researchers recommend that a key priority in Tanzania is to strengthen the support
to the District HIV/AIDS coordinating offices (financial resources and capacity
development), such that they are able to best understand the realities of the
populations in their district and to base interventions on the situation on the ground.
Outreach to the communities is also important but must be sufficient to meet the need.
In Ulyankulu Settlement, it was clear that GoT policies and programs were not
operational on the ground - for example, the village AIDS Committees were established
but they were rarely functioning due to lack of support, supervision, motivation, and
clear understanding of HIV/AIDS and their roles and responsibilities. Currently, there
does not appear to be a functioning monitoring system for these committees - in one
dispensary in Ulyankulu Settlement presumptions were made about the effectiveness
of a committee that in fact was not functioning, and these presumptions that HIV risk
behavior had declined were reported to Urambo District as fact.

Recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the District HIV/AIDS mechanism
include:

                                          216
                                                                              TANZANIA Country Report


      i)     Support by local leaders, including mobilization of the community for
             meetings
      ii)    Supervision of village HIV/AIDS Committees and provision of regular
             information by local health facilities, including visits to villages
      iii)   Motivation of committees at village level in the form of transport, T-shirts
             and caps, or out-of-pocket money
      iv)    Monitoring of the work and the impact of the Village AIDS Committees.


  RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ENCAMPED NEW CASELOAD BURUNDIAN
                  REFUGEE POPULATIONS
The recommendations presented for reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS in refugee
camps applies primarily to the UNHCR and her implementing partners. Other
recommendations are presented to limit the transmission of HIV between Tanzanians
and the refugees in the camps. These recommendations are mainly directed at the
local and national Government of Tanzania.

 Expanding the Scope of Current Approaches ­ Thinking Outside the Box
In this assessment, the major causes of high risk sexual behavior included
encampment with its congestion and restriction on movement, as well as altered social
checks and balances, gender inequalities, economic poverty as a result of limited
livelihood opportunities, limitations in food quality and quantity, as well as feelings of
powerlessness and dependency, resulting in idleness, a laissez-faire attitude of living
for today, and high alcohol consumption. UNHCR has also already recognized some of
the root causes behind transmission of HIV in the encamped refugee populations in
north-western Tanzania252 253, although before this assessment a thorough
investigation had not been undertaken.

Addressing some of these factors may contribute to the reduction of HIV transmission.
In order to address these factors, recommendations therefore must broaden the menu
of activities to prevent the spread of HIV. The factors that should be addressed fall into
three categories: (i) ensuring refugees have adequate access to nutritious food and a
means of cooking that food; (ii) addressing idleness; (iii) improving the living conditions
in the camps; and (iv) imposing regulations that govern drunkenness and SGBV.

 Addressing Food Inadequacies and Lack of Basic Resources
For refugees, insufficient food and resources to meet basic needs drives refugee
women to engage in sex for money or other resources, either casually on an as needed
basis or commercially in nearby Kasanda town. UNHCR and her partners are
recommended to investigate ways to ensure that households basic needs in this
regard are more adequately met. For example, the provision of sufficient food,
including reasonable quality, quantity and variety, would reduce the necessity for
women to barter sex for food and money. Provision of food that requires less cooking
time, provision of cooking fuel, or provision of stoves that reduce the need for
firewood254 would reduce the need for women to sneak out of the camp in search of
firewood, which puts them in danger of rape. Negotiating land adjoining the camp for
gardens for the refugees would allow them to cultivate fruit and vegetables. Easing the
restriction on movement outside the camp so that refugees can forage for firewood,
food and casual labor without harassment would help the situation as well. Lastly,
providing livelihood opportunities in the camp and its vicinity to reduce idleness of men,

252
    Spiegel 2003
253
    Bruns & Spiegel 2003
254
    Such energy efficient stoves have been trialed and used in other refugee situations, especially where
firewood is limited ­ Eg Kakuma Camp in northern Kenya

                                                  217
Social and Gender Assessment


and the need for women to barter sex for gain would limit the need and opportunity for
high risk sex.

 Addressing Idleness
UNHCR and her partners are recommended to facilitate activities for adults, particularly
men, which would reduce the number of adults with nothing to do, and the high
incidence of drinking in bars during the daytime. Suggestions include the provision of
livelihood opportunities, organised food for work schemes in the local community and
around the camp (WFP), and relaxing the restriction on movement outside the camp so
that refugees can look for firewood, food and casual labor.

Activities are also important for youth. The replication of the successful Youth Centre in
Mtendeli Camp to other camps is recommended. Youth could also take advantage of
livelihood opportunities and food for work schemes. Other suggestions for long-term
encampment are the provision of secondary schooling and vocational skills training for
youth.

The successful youth program in Mtendeli Camp highlighted the importance of youth
centers in the reduction of HIV transmission. The youth from this centre were those
most likely to use condoms consistently. Staff in the camp feels that in this group of
youth HIV transmission has been interrupted. The centre is an example of thinking
outside the box. It offers a comprehensive youth support program in a youth-friendly
environment ­ teaching life skills, income generating skills, sexual and reproductive
health skills, and offering entertainment and counseling. However, more young men
use the centers than young women as girls have domestic chores, parents do not want
girls mixing with boys, and rumors abound about "what goes on at the youth centre".
The researchers recommend that:

       All types of camp leaders are sensitized and support the youth centers
       Parents are sensitized by leaders about the value of the youth centre
       Funds are provided by UNHCR to increase the reach of the centre
       Girls are motivated and permitted to attend and special activities are
       established for them
       Parents are invited to visit the centre at appropriate times to be reassured by
       activities
       Leaders and parents are involved in the centre in ways that are appropriate for
       youth
       Involvement of male and female role models to take youth through the paces of
       responsible adulthood.

 Improving the Living Conditions in the Camps
UNHCR and the Department of Refugees in the Ministry of Home Affairs should
consider options for reducing the congestion in camps, especially in Kanembwa.
Recommendations for consideration include increasing the space that the refugee
communities occupy so that houses were larger and separated a little; and providing
larger shelter/houses. While this could be seen as a camp management issue, the
broader government and UNHCR policies also regulate the amount of land for housing
refugees and the space per "blande" (or shelter). Such policies may need to be
addressed if congestion and its influence of often unprotected, opportunistic sexual
activity are to be reduced. The social and gender assessment in the DRC provides an
example of where living conditions seem to make a difference to high risk sexual
activity. In this instance, one camp has been constructed around a series of mini-
villages housing 12 families around a central courtyard with shared cooking facilities,
including fuel-efficient stoves, and sanitation facilities.

                                           218
                                                                       TANZANIA Country Report


 Regulations
"Irresponsible" sexual behavior is strongly associated with the availability and
consumption of alcohol. It is recommended that the UNHCR, camp management,
refugee committees, church and traditional elders collaborate to regulate the number of
drinking places and the hours of operation. It is also recommended that the HIV/AIDS
programs in the camps sensitize owners and patrons of bars, and provide condoms
and condom instruction in these venues. Other suggestions include providing
alternative entertainment that would take customers away from drinking places and
reduce idleness.

The African extended family social network is seen as a potential mechanism for care
and support of PLWHAs. However, within the camps it was observed that this social
network was superficial and dying fast due to the breakdown in family and social
norms, and family separation. Mechanisms could be put in place to strengthen
community solidarity and ownership of HIV/AIDS programs, particularly in smaller
administrative sections of the camp.

Lastly, the GoT security institutions are recommended to work with the UNHCR SGBV
program to reduce the difficulty in reporting rape and bringing about convictions. Also
as police and military personnel were implicated as being one of the major groups of
men involved in transactional sex with refugee women, several recommendations are
given for the military and Police, as follows:

        Quality HIV/AIDS education for security personnel
        Provision of condoms to these personnel, which are easily accessible
        Development of a mechanism of reprimand when personnel rape or defile
        Restrictions, and enforcement of regulations, on movement into the camp after
        dark

 Revitalizing Standard, Current HIV/AIDS Programming
UNHCR and its implementing partners operate a suite of efficient HIV/AIDS prevention,
control, and care and treatment activities in the refugee camps in north-western
Tanzania. However, despite these activities, some of which commenced in 1994, little
behavior change has been noted255. Awareness amongst all demographic sub-groups
in the camps studied is high but high risk sexual behavior is prominent. Therefore, the
researchers question whether this high awareness translates into a real understanding
and consciousness in all except male youth. Except for youth, refugees could "parrot"
the modes of transmission and causes, but this may not be conscious and hence did
not translate into action.

The primary recommendation is to ensure that all programs are aimed at changing
behavior as an outcome, and are focused on the refugees rather than on activities, per
se. Several areas are highlighted for recommendations: (i) messages that are most
likely translated into behavior change; (ii) peer education; (iii) availability and
accessibility of condoms; and (iv) removal of stigma surrounding VCT.

Lastly, tensions between refugees and host populations and "false perceptions" held by
the host Tanzanian communities that HIV prevalence is higher amongst refugee
populations is undermining collaboration between public services and refugee services
in Kibondo District. While in the current climate of public anger over the presence of
refugees in Tanzania, dispelling this perception may be difficult, researchers suggest:



255
   This assessment; Spiegel 2002; personal communication with UNHCR Health Coordinator and UNHCR
HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Assistant in Kibondo District

                                              219
Social and Gender Assessment


       Undertaking surveillance surveys in the camps and surrounding Tanzanian
       communities to obtain accurate HIV prevalence rates.
       Develop awareness campaigns and prevention activities that involve both the
       Tanzanian and refugee populations.
       Focus on providing awareness and an understanding of prevalence and the
       HIV/AIDS situation locally.

It is recommended that the NACP, TACAIDS and Kibondo District collaborate with
UNHCR collaborate to implement these recommendation.

 Messages
Messages delivered by UNHCR and her partners in the camps were also basic,
repetitive and not specifically contextualized to the situation. Fresh, appropriate and
frequently changed messages are recommended to keep the dangers of HIV and AIDS
in the forefront of people consciousness. Also IEC materials, although some are in
Kirundi, should be tailored for the Burundian culture and the situation of the refugees.
Specific materials targeting different groups, such as women, men, children, male and
female youth, sex workers and their clients, bar-goers, and other vulnerable groups
should be considered. Consultation with the refugees is necessary to determine the
most appropriate IEC materials.

Serious consideration should be given to the most appropriate and effective means
delivering information that would lead to behavior change. Male refugee youth
recommended more drama presentations for all groups of refugees as they felt this
was a "very persuasive" method of raising awareness leading to behavior change that
put HIV transmission into the context of peoples lives in the refugee camps.

 Peer Education
Peer education has been a major method of HIV/AIDS education in the camps.
However, problems noted included (i) the inappropriateness of youth as educators for
all sub-groups of the population, especially female youth; (ii) the concept of
volunteerism has not been taken up well and accepted by refugees over the long term;
and (iii) incentives for involvement are limited. Recommendations to UNHCR and
partners include:

       Selecting respected and appropriate peer educators for each sub-group of
       refugees in the camps.
       Provision of incentives for peer educators that are appropriate to the educator
       and their work.
       Ensuring specific targeting to at-risk groups, such as female youth, bar-goers,
       female sex workers, while also ensuring that the entire population is reached.
       Targeting groups of men who frequently engage in sexual activity outside of
       marriage with behavior change campaigns for groups of men listed by refugees
       and local communities as being the most promiscuous. These groups included
       teachers, NGO workers, military and security personnel.
       Monitoring of the appropriateness, reach, and outcomes of peer educators in
       the refugee community.
       On-going training of all involved to keep workers motivated, and to ensure a
       trained pool of educators as refugees.
       Harmonizing peer education in the camps with the systems in Burundi.




                                          220
                                                                   TANZANIA Country Report


 Condoms
It was reported to the researchers by UNHCR staff and by adult men that condom
usage was not high, although in the refugee camps, condoms are readily available.
Condoms are used by youth, especially in Mtendeli Camp as a result of the Youth
Centre in the camp. However, older men felt that condoms were only for the young.
Women felt that using condoms was "none of their business" ­ in other words, it is the
mans concern and responsibility. In the camps, there is no adequate system256 to
monitor the supply, use, acceptability and accessibility of condoms by women and by
men, by youth and by older adults. With regard to quality of the condoms supplied,
complaints were made by refugee men and male youth that condoms burst or leaked.
In terms of acceptability, men reported that the condoms limited their feelings of
pleasure during sexual intercourse. Condoms were said to be accessible to men but
not to women in the camps. Women did not think condoms were there business.
Consistent use of condoms was only reported in male youth when condoms were in
their possession.

Therefore, UNHCR and partners must work with community structures, such as elders,
church leaders, and the refugee committees, to change attitudes to condoms, to
ensure acceptable access, and to guarantee quality. The researchers recommend that
a survey is performed and a regular monitoring system is implemented to assess the
above variables, particularly utilization of condoms supplied.

Promoting the use of condoms when men do not like using them for personal reasons
is difficult to address. The researchers suggest providing a selection of condoms,
including those that enhance pleasure sensations and market testing the most
appropriate varieties that appeal to users ­ similar to the selection available in cities.

If women and men want female condoms to be available the provision, sensitization,
demonstration and social marketing of these condoms would be another mechanism
for reducing HIV transmission resulting from risky sexual behavior. Contingent on the
provision of female condoms is the need to provide women and girls with the
knowledge, skills and confidence to negotiate sex and condom usage, and the ability to
fit a female or a male condom. The Youth Centre is an ideal venue for developing
negotiation skills of female youth. UNHCR and partners are recommended to consider
these options.

The Church is a prominent institution and a unifying factor in the Camps. Refugees
have much respect for their church leaders and the messages that they deliver. It
seems that in the camps, religious leaders are against condom use, although this was
not as overt as in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement. This may also be a reason for the low
condom use despite awareness and condom availability, although refugees did not
offer this as a reason. UNHCR and implementing partners have not engaged and
partnered religious leaders to-date in the prevention of HIV transmission. The
researchers therefore recommend that UNHCR and her partners involve religious
leaders, and other influential and respected community members in designing and
implementing programs for HIV prevention. This would provide a team approach that is
holist and inclusive of refugee life in the camps, and a key part of individuals lives.

 Harmonization
With regard to encamped refugees, harmonization is important and needs to occur at
several levels ­ within the camp, within UNHCR and her partners, between UNHCR
and the GOT both nationally and locally, and between UNHCR and the Government of
Burundi.

256
      Bruns & Spiegel 2003

                                           221
Social and Gender Assessment


 Within the Camp
Within the camp, the researchers recommend UNHCR involve religious and other
leaders and key stakeholders in the design, planning, implementation and monitoring of
HIV/AIDS prevention programs, such that approaches and messages are harmonized
in the camp setting. Also it is recommended that the approaches and methods of peer
educators, health workers, and others providing information in the camps are
monitored to ensure consistency of quality and delivery.

 Within UNHCR
UNHCR implements several different programs that potentially impact the factors
influencing HIV transmission in the refugee camps. There appeared to be some
duplication and limited collaboration between the programs within UNHCR with each
appearing to operate vertically. The researchers recommend that the different UNHCR
programs, such as HIV/AIDS/Reproductive Health, Health, SGBV / Protection,
Community Development, Security, Distribution and others, are coordinated to plan
and work together to address the multi-faceted factors influencing HIV transmission in
a holistic manner.

 UNHCR and the Burundian Government
Repatriation means the slow dismantling of community structures and newly created
peoples institutions that have been at the forefront in stemming the spread of HIV in
the refugee camps - HIV counselors, peer educators, SGBV advisors, condom
distributors, and all those who are employed in the health education chain and in
service delivery. Two specific and related impacts are noticeable here. First, in the
camp from which the repatriation is taking place the network of HIV preventative cadres
is interrupted (or dismembered). Secondly, in Burundi, no corresponding system is in
place to absorb and productively utilize people who have hitherto been working in the
HIV-prevention chain. The practical reality is that on repatriation many peer educators,
counselors, and other HIV prevention refugee cadres who have been trained and
working in the refugee camps in Tanzania are not able to continue their skills when
repatriated, as demonstrated in the textbox below.

 "My friend went back to Burundi more than nine months ago. He was a peer educator in the
 camp here in Kanembwa. We have obtained information that since his return to his village he
 has neither settled nor been able to practice what he learnt while he was still here in
 Tanzania. It seems that his training only went to waste." Peer educator in Kanembwa Camp

In addition, both trained personnel and HIV activists feared that the open approach to
handling HIV and AIDS issues in programs in the refugee camps in Tanzania was
unlikely to be matched with similar support and enthusiasm in their homeland as in
Burundi stigma was still very high.

Therefore, the researchers and national stakeholders recommend the following:

       Continuing, and ensuring consistency and operation of the HIV/AIDS program
       throughout the repatriation process.
       Identifying and documenting the skills of trained personnel who are repatriating
       and communicating these to the corresponding authorities in Burundi.
       Filling gaps created by the departure of departing professionals from the camps
       through training and re-training in advance of the departure so a hand-over is
       possible and services continue uninterrupted.
       Creating liaison between those who are involved in HIV prevention efforts on
       both sides of the border.


                                          222
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report


       Harmonizing policies, programs and systems to prevent, diagnose and treat
       HIV and AIDS between the situation in camps and the country of repatriation -
       in this case Burundi.
 UNHCR and Government of Tanzania
Another issue that is related to repatriation is the abandonment of already well-
established infrastructure previously used to accommodate the refugees. There are
instances in north-western Tanzania, where the inevitable reduction in numbers of
refugees in camps and the subsequent closure of camps, has left useful facilities in
disuse. The researchers recommend collaboration between UNHCR and local and
national government to ensure that previous refugee facilities serve the local population
after the closure of part of, or the entire, camp.

Resentment is felt by Tanzanian nationals over the better quality of health services,
and the provision of goods, for refugees compared to local Tanzanian communities.
UNHCR and NGO partners in Kibondo District have made much appreciated
improvements to Kibondo District health services ­ Kibondo District Hospital and health
centers neighboring the camps- for the local Tanzanian population. However, host
communities close to the refugee camps have difficulty accessing these services. The
researchers recommend that local government and UNHCR ensure that services
available to host populations are commensurate with those received by the encamped
refugees. It may not be enough to say the local population are free to use the camp
health services as statistics highlight that health facility usage by Tanzanians from the
neighboring communities at Mtendeli and Kanembwa Camps is low.

It is also recommended that UNHCR and her implementation partners training made
available to refugees regarding HIV education, counseling, community health workers,
condom promoters and community mobilization is also made available to neighboring
host communities. This is important because factors influencing HIV transmission
involve both refugee and host populations. Systems in the host communities were
observed to have limited effectiveness, and local government resources and
capabilities to train and educate at community level is minimal.

The effectiveness of some of UNHCRs programs, such as youth centers, peer
education and awareness-raising campaigns, could provide models for Tanzanian
communities. The researchers therefore recommend that collaboration between local
communities, local and national government and UNHCR and her partners is enhanced
to allow for sharing of prevention models and cross learning.


    RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SETTLED OLD CASELOAD BURUNDIAN
                  REFUGEE POPULATIONS
Many of the recommendations presented his section apply to Tanzanian villages as
well as designated refugee settlements because the GOT provides social services and
the system of administration in both cases. However, some recommendations apply
particularly to the refugees status as refugees.

In the national workshop, the national stakeholders recommended interventions as the
short, medium and long-term solutions to preventing HIV transmission. These
recommendations included provision of income generating activities to alleviate poverty
in the dry season and to reduce idleness; educating outsiders who visit the community
and providing them with condoms, such as miners; broadening the reach of VCT and
STI services; and working with religious leaders to prevent HIV transmission.




                                          223
Social and Gender Assessment


 Expanding the Scope of Current Approaches - Thinking Outside the Box
In Ulyankulu Settlement, poverty, particularly its affect on women, is a root cause of the
transmission of HIV in, and into, the Settlement. Therefore, strategies to reduce poverty
and to provide livelihood opportunities would alleviate the need for women to transact
sex for resources. The researchers suggest that the following recommendations are
investigated under a broadened HIV/AIDS program:

       The GOT should address the status of the old caseload refugees to determine
       the likelihood and time for repatriation, which may reduce the anxiety expressed
       by refugees.
       The GOT ease the restriction on movement of refugees outside the Settlement
       to allow Burundian refugees to access livelihood and business opportunities,
       and skills training and further education.
       GOT, in collaboration with NGOs, local government and community leaders,
       facilitate the generation of livelihood and income generation opportunities for
       families, women and men in the dry season, and youth as appropriate to their
       situation. Opportunities should be sensitive to gender roles, existing workloads
       and responsibilities, time, and skills. NGOs, local leaders and committees,
       community development and extension officers, local businesses as well GoT
       Development and Poverty Reduction Programs could be investigated as
       mechanisms for delivery of skill enhancing and income generating programs.
       Particularly attention should be given to development of livelihood opportunities
       for women and girls, which would earn them some income, reducing the need
       to engage in sex work or sex bartering, and therefore reducing the pool of
       possible sex partners, and the HIV virus.

As idleness, with associated alcohol consumption, affects the transmission of
HIV/AIDS, programs that reduce idleness in youth and men are also recommended.
Livelihood activities, particularly for men in the dry season, would reduce this idleness.
Youth Centers, such as the model created by UNHCR in Mtendeli Camp, would create
a venue for youth to learn life skills-training, vocational skills, reproductive health and
HIV/AIDS education, as well as role models and mentors. It is recommended that
several government and non-government actors are involved in facilitating youth
activities.

As in the case of encamped refugees, it is recommended that the local council institute
by-laws to govern the same and consumption of alcohol. It is also recommended that
sensitization of the owners and patrons of bars, and the distribution of free condoms in
bars is included in the GOT and local government HIV/AIDS programs. Condom
instruction should also take place in these venues.

Recommendations are also made to NGOs and the GOT to adopt behavior change
programs to refocus men on their traditional family values and responsibilities
(provision of food and income), and to reduce idleness.

 Revitalizing Standard, Current HIV/AIDS Programs
In Ulyankulu Settlement, HIV/AIDS programs are implemented by the GOT in the same
manner as in Tanzanian communities. The Church and to a minor extent, local
government, also provide support for PLWHAs and provides their congregations with
some information. Knowledge about HIV/AIDS was fair in Kaswa Trading Centre and
youth throughout the Settlement but was low in women and older adult refugees living
in rural areas. High risk sexual activity is extensive and attitudes to condom use largely
negative. This scenario draws attention to improvements in the delivery of HIV/AIDS
messages, peer education, condom acceptance and distribution, HIV/AIDS education
program administration, as well as the provision of STI and VCT.

                                           224
                                                                TANZANIA Country Report




 HIV/AIDS Messages
The refugees in the Settlement felt that they first need good, reliable and complete
information on HIV/AIDS and its prevention. "They are crying out for HIV/AIDS
education in the form of seminars" reported the local council. But those seminars must
be presented by professional trainers to whom they can address all their questions;
must be given to a mixed audience of men and women as a way to open up discussion
in the household between husbands and wives; and must be given regularly. Partial
and incorrect messages were also noted in the Settlement, and several misconceptions
exist. For example, the widely held belief, even espoused by well educated officials,
that HIV can only be transmitted during sexual intercourse if one of the parties has a
lesion on their genitalia.

It is recommended that the GOT District HIV/AIDS Program works in conjunction with
the local council and leaders in Ulyankulu Settlement to adopt the following
recommendations:

       Harmonization of messages between stakeholders and with the National
       HIV/AIDS Program is essential. This should be overseen by a divisional
       HIV/AIDS officer with regular supervision and spot checks by the District
       administration, or outsourced to NGOs.
       Education to be periodically given by someone with authority ­ "an expert" ­ on
       AIDS, as requested by community members and leaders.
       Additional training of educators.
       Direct and indirect supervision by District AIDS Coordinators and their teams,
       who should make periodic visits to the local level to ensure delivery of
       messages are occurring effectively.
       Messages should be based on hope and life values as opposed to fear of
       death.
       Messages must be appropriate to the situation of refugees in Ulyankulu
       Settlement.
       Incorporation into HIV/AIDS education of messages to reduce stigma, possibly
       utilizing the approach used in the refugee camps.

In addition, HIV/AIDS education should be combined with, or incorporated into, holistic
reproductive and sexual health education in schools, youth centers, and the VETA.
Having a grounding in reproductive health is a necessary context for HIV education and
behavior change and enables HIV/AIDS message to be fully comprehensive. Education
for women is also important. It is recommended that existing community structures are
used to deliver this education. Messages should be complete and in line with GoT
policies and programs. This includes discussion of condoms in primary school
education, and commencement of HIV/AIDS education in appropriate places in the
curriculum earlier in childhood.

 IEC Material
In Ulyankulu Settlement, the only IEC material that was sighted was an Uhuru Torch
poster, which mentioned HIV/AIDS. There is an absence of IEC material. The people of
the Settlement and the local councils in Kaswa and Usigala requested that posters are
available and are displayed prominently as reminders about the dangers of HIV and
ways to prevent its spread. The GOT NACP and TACAIDS are recommended to supply
these posters to the MHA and the local councils for distribution.

The researchers further recommend that IEC material, in the form of posters, is
prepared in Kiswahili and Kirundi, and is tailored to the general population and
separately to at-risk groups. Specific material ­ posters and information brochures -
                                         225
Social and Gender Assessment


would also be useful in schools. Videos on HIV/AIDS are recommended to be made
available to communities on a rotating, library-type basis as this provides education as
well as an entertainment.

 Peer Education
In Ulyankulu Settlement, information about HIV/AIDS is obtained through the radio,
school, Church and infrequently community seminars held by NGOs. Peer educators
are trained by District NGOs and deployed but they do not spend much time or effort
educating. The peer education system does not appear to be functioning adequately.

Recommendations to the GOT nationally, to the District HIV/AIDS Program and to
NGO district partners need to concentrate on the effectiveness in awareness-raising
and to operate mechanisms that are most likely to lead to behavior change (provided a
supportive environment is achieved). Specific recommendations for consideration
include:

       Appropriate and acceptable educators are selected that are actually respected
       peers to each sub-group in the community that they wish to reach - men and
       women, youth and adults, and peers from high-risk or vulnerable groups. In
       many cases, peer educators are male youth who cannot talk of matters of sex
       with elders or women, and who if not supported well by local administration, are
       not respected or taken seriously by adults and elders. No peer educators were
       present for CSW, nor for out-of-school male youth and VETA students.
       Ensuring that peer educators are trained to a specified standard, which should
       be set by the GOT, possibly NACP, such that the knowledge and skills of peer
       educators is adequate. This is not the case in Ulyankulu Settlement at present.
       Peer educators are motivated by provision of rewards (uniform, expenses,
       refresher training) and facilitated (transport, props for demonstration, IEC
       materials, models and a condom supply).
       Educators are supervised and supported by local government, local leaders,
       and health facility staff.
       Ensure that the entire community knows who their peer educators are and what
       their roles are; and that educators are available to their community, as decided
       by the community and leaders, and that these educators are acceptable and
       even chosen by the community or the appropriate peer group.
       Educators support the messages provided by the GoT and given on the radio
       and in school.

 Condoms
Condoms are not supported by the majority of Ulyankulu residents due to religious
beliefs and misconceptions about the reliability of condoms. Therefore, three issues
present as areas for intervention: (i) dispelling misconceptions and convincing men and
women of the efficiency and efficacy of latex condoms; (ii) promotion of the correct use
of condoms and provision of a variety of condoms that suit the users; and (iii) ensuring
that condoms are available and accessible.

Therefore, the researchers recommend the following:
       The MOH provides free condoms that health workers can place in accessible
       and discrete positions in the community, as determined by the community - eg.
       bars, counter of pharmacies and health facilities, secondary school toilets,
       VETA training college, the refreshment hall, and in hotels.
       The peer educators and village HIV/AIDS committee include health promotion
       about condoms in their education that is in-line with GOT policy and which
       dispels misconceptions. Condom social marketing should be targeted to

                                          226
                                                                                TANZANIA Country Report


         specific sub-groups of the population. Demonstrations of condoms should also
         be part of the peer educators work.
         HIV/AIDS programs should include the availability and education on the female
         condom, as requested by rural women in Usigal village in the Settlement.
         Market testing of different types of condoms (size, thickness etc) is organized
         by the NACP through a NGO such as Populations Services International, to
         ensure condoms are provided that minimizes loss of sensation during sexual
         intercourse with condoms and penile discomfort.
         Church leaders, as well as peer educators and community leaders, are
         encouraged to promote condoms as saving lives.
         Government officials, leaders and community groups work together with the
         Pentecostal and Catholic churches to help dispel misconceptions about HIV
         and AIDS, and to promote culturally appropriate methods of prevention.

 HIV/AIDS Committees
HIV/AIDS Committees have been formed in all villages, except Kaswa Trading Centre,
in Ulyankulu Refugee Settlement and the surrounding Tanzanian communities as part
of the Government of Tanzanias HIV/AIDS control efforts. The findings of this
assessment indicate that most of these committees are inactive or of limited
effectiveness. The reasons for this situation as cited by HIV/AIDS Committee members
and local leaders include: (i) limited operational funds at village level for of committee
members transport within rural areas and to the coordinating local dispensary257 for
training, condom supply and reporting; (ii) lack of incentives for HIV/AIDS work done
and as compensation for domestic or productive time lost; (iii) lack of transport means
in rural areas to travel to local health facility and to move around an often disbursed
local population; (iv) lack of education material; (v) cultural barriers to discussing sex in
public and to the availability and use of condoms in some cases; (vi) limited supply of
condoms to HIV/AIDS prevention workers. The researchers observed a lack of field
supervision to village level; and apparent lack of standardized quality training258 for
HIV/AIDS committee members that can be easily operationalized by lay people.

It is recommended that the shortcomings listed above are reviewed and rectified by the
national NACP and the District AIDS Control Program. Specific recommendations
include:

         Composition of the committees ensures that men and women, as well as youth
         are selected, and that the members of the committee are respected by their
         peers. Further, in order to cover the entire rural administrative area, committee
         members should be chosen who live in key locations.
         The function of the committees is mainly to provide the population with
         information about HIV transmission, AIDS and methods of preventing infection.
         This role could be expanded to link health workers at dispensary level with
         people in need of treatment or support
         Provision of incentives (Eg. transport, T-shirts, small remuneration) for
         individual committee members appropriate to the local situation could be
         investigated.
         Minimal funds could be provided to local government administration for running
         HIV/AIDS committees and funding and monitoring the prevention work of those
         trained.
         Provision of transport, such as bicycles where needed, provision of transport
         reimbursement, linking with local government trips in the rural region

257
   Example of distance from village to local Dispensary in Ulyankulu is 6-10km
258
   The district level sub-contractors responsible for training in Urambo District appeared to supply varying
levels of quality and comprehensiveness in training of volunteer community workers and of HIV/AIDS
Committees.

                                                    227
Social and Gender Assessment


           Provision of IEC material, such as posters in local languages, demonstration
           models, and material for distribution at schools and health centers.
           Improve the supply of condoms to HIV/AIDS prevention workers, and provide
           community-appropriate places for collection of condoms, such as in bars,
           shops, and pharmacies.
           Development of a system of field supervision in which for example, dispensary
           personnel, travel to villages periodically to monitor, resupply and support village
           HIV/AIDS workers.
           Ensure standardized quality of training for the HIV/AIDS Committee members,
           as well as other peer educators, which allows those trained to easily undertake
           the required work in their villages.

 Monitoring and Evaluation
It is vital that the District HIV/AIDS Program employs a monitoring system in the
HIV/AIDS Program. This system would include supervision of peer educators, village
HIV/AIDS committees and local HIV/AIDS officers to ensure that community meetings
and information dissemination, condom demonstrations and distribution are occurring,
are in line with government policies, and are effective. A monitoring system must also
include an assessment of reach, knowledge gain, and behavior change as a result of
local programs, which can then be modified for effectiveness as needed.

 Voluntary counselling and testing
Education is required about the new VCT centre in the Settlement such that the
community and surrounding Tanzanian communities are aware of the facility, and the
importance of testing for preventing the spread of HIV.

In Ulyankulu Settlement, it was noted that the establishment of the VCT centre may
place excessive demands on existing staff. Also there was confusion when the
researchers visited about the need and the timing of counseling associated with HIV
testing. It was mentioned that the District officials instructed the staff to omit pre-test
counseling. This issues needs to be clarified.

 STI Management
In Ulyankulu Settlement, several shortcomings were noted in the newly established STI
centre in the Ulyankulu Health Centre had trained staff, but had no supply of treatment
drugs. Also outreach and contact tracing was limited due to the lack of outreach
systems and workload of the current health centre staff. Further, the services available
in the Health Centre were not well-known amongst the refugee or neighboring
Tanzanian populations259. It is recommended that the MOH guarantee a continuous
supply of drugs and condoms. The MOH is also recommended to work with Districts to
develop and implement effective contact tracing mechanisms. Local leaders are
recommended to work with health centre staff to ensure community awareness is
raised in the community about STIs, and the availability and importance of treatment.
 Harmonization
As discussed above, there is need for harmonization of:
        HIV/AIDS messages in Ulyankulu Settlement
        Stakeholders work together to reduce HIV transmission and the impacts of
          AIDS on the community
        Local activities with the national HIV/AIDS program
        Church messages on HIV prevention, the GoT, messages, and those of
          local NGOs, HIV Committees and government officials.
259
      This health centre serves 133,000 people ­ 47,000 of which are old caseload refugees.

                                                     228
                                                                   TANZANIA Country Report



The GOT MOH policies must be followed in all cases.

In addition, participation of leaders at local levels and all key local stakeholders in the
design, implementation and monitoring of HIV/AIDS education, prevention and care
programs would foster local and community ownership. Without such collaboration,
harmonization and coordination will not occur.

Lastly, programs provided for settled refugees should be harmonized to programs in
their country of origin if the refugees are to be repatriated. There was no evidence that
this was occurring.


       RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TANZANIAN HOST POPULATIONS
Many of the recommendations for the Tanzanian host populations are the same as for
the settled refugees in Ulyankulu as both populations are served by GOT programs
and some of the factors driving high risk sexual behavior are also shared, except for
the high rate of sex bartering by women to meet family needs.

The priority means of preventing HIV transmission cited amongst local host populations
consulted included use of condoms and faithfulness in marriage.

 Expanding the Scope of Current Approaches - Thinking Outside the Box
As discussed in the preceding sections, addressing poverty would also address some
of the factors influencing the transmission of HIV. The recommendations presented
above to reduce economic poverty - addressing the limited livelihood and income
generation opportunities for men, women and youth, which would in turn address
idleness and the ability to meet basic needs, would also benefit the rural host
communities assessed, and therefore will not be repeated in this section. To re-
emphasize, livelihood schemes to train women should also include training on
negotiation skills, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS education. However, such
schemes must be feasible and should bear in mind the already heavy workload of
women, and their gender responsibilities.

However, the host populations live in relatively better conditions than the refugees,
particularly those in camps, but high risk sexual behavior still prevails. Therefore, as
noted by stakeholders in the national workshop, social poverty and poverty of the mind
also underlie much of the high-risk behavior that leads to HIV infection.
Recommendations for addressing social poverty or disharmony include the following:

       Creation, by the community, of alternative forums, venues or opportunities for
       adults, particularly men, to gather and socialize, which do not revolve around
       alcohol consumption. NGOs or the GOT could assist in this regard with
       developing models and piloting.
       Such models may include an increase in entertainment in communities, which
       could incorporate educative videos on HIV/AIDS. This may be in the form of a
       youth centre as mentioned above. A similar concept for adults could also be
       considered,
       Rather than condemning social and traditional practices that could lead to HIV
       transmission, those parts of the practice that lead to, or involve, high risk sexual
       behavior could be modified to reduce the risk. For example, omitting one dance
       that often ends in fornication from the Sukuma dance festivals. Community
       leaders and committees, facilitated by local government or NGOs, should be
       responsible for this action.


                                           229
Social and Gender Assessment


       NGOs, the Church, and local government are recommended to broadening
       HIV/AIDS seminars to include marriage and social values. Women in Uyowa
       said that if husbands and wives attended that this would provide them with
       much desired information, promote harmony within the household, as well as
       provide an avenue to further discuss HIV/AIDS with their husbands. This
       suggestions could be incorporated into national policy and programming.

At the national feedback workshop, addressing promiscuity was equated with
addressing poverty of the mind, as there are individuals who engage in high-risk sexual
behavior who do so not to relieve economic or social poverty. As discussed above,
reducing idleness and alcohol consumption may assist. However, the fundamental
reasons for promiscuity, especially amongst men, require further investigation. Issues
of self-esteem and individual and societal values may influence promiscuous behavior.
It is recommended that activities focusing on values are explored, such as:

       GoT, NGOs and the Church (and faith-based organizations) base HIV/AIDS
       messages on values and hope for life rather than the fear of death and
       immorality, especially in situations of low HIV prevalence as in refugee camps.
       All the above stakeholders and local leaders and councils should promote
       family values, the societal gender role balance, and respect of parents by youth.
       In addition, promotion of a community value sets would also assist.

Communities also recommended helping youth to abstain from sexual relations outside
of marriage by establishing youth groups and youth centers, which could be used to
provide training and education on HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, life skills, values,
vocational skills, and supervised entertainment for youth. Also schemes to provide
livelihood opportunities, skills and capital could be developed by local councils,
facilitated by NGOs and relevant agencies. The UNHCR could facilitate the piloting of
the Mtendeli Youth Centre in designated refugee settlements and some Tanzanian
communities. This facilitation may take the form of linking youth NGOs with
communities, training youth facilitators, publication of the model as a manual, and
training NGOs and community councils. Sporting contests arranged by the
government, schools, and community organizations would help to reduce idleness in
male youth. The risk of these events leading to high risk sexual activity could be
countered by peer educators and local HIV/AIDS groups and activists promoting safe
sex and other appropriate HIV/AIDS messages, and distributing condoms.
Recommendations were also made to involve youth with religious activities - studying
the word of God were and community work. Further, it was suggested peer education
to male youth could include the promotion of masturbation to help youth release pent
up sexual desire.

In the village of Uyowa, the community has also applied a by-law that requires families
to declare the cause of death of a relative if he or she was HIV positive. This idea could
be taken up by other local governments and village executives.

In Tanzanian communities around refugee camps in Kibondo District the researchers
recommend that specific HIV/AIDS education is provided to military and security
personnel, that condoms are easily accessible to them, and that checks, diagnosis and
treatment of STIs is readily available.

 Revitalizing Current, Standard Programs
Communities and national researchers recommended that the Tanzanian system of
community level health education should be revamped from national level to
community level- the Village HIV/AIDS Committees. This would include reviewing
messages, modes of delivery, empowerment approaches to behavior change, and
monitoring the process and impact of this education, as suggested for the Ulyankulu
                                           230
                                                                  TANZANIA Country Report


Designated Refugee Settlement. HIV/AIDS Committees would play a key role in the
implementation of these revamped programs.

In the case of village HIV/AIDS Committees and community educators, the GoT system
applied in Ulyankulu Settlement is the same as that applied throughout regional
Tanzania. Similar recommendations for HIV/AIDS Committees made for Ulyankulu
Refugee Settlement (Section 3) are made for rural Tanzanian communities. In
particular, the local administration must support and motivate the educators,
supervision must be provided, and educators must be appropriate peers for the
vulnerable sub-groups of the population.

In Uyowa village, the community recommended that the village hold an "open
discussion" to develop community solutions for reducing the transmission of HIV. They
felt that seminars providing comprehensive information to the community on HIV
transmission and prevention alternatives would be needed before such a community
forum.

Ulyankulu Health Centre is the focus and the only place within approximately 60 km for
HIV/AIDS counseling. It is used by the Burundian refugees and Tanzanians within a
30-40 km radius. The Health Centre has tried limited outreach programs for STI tracing
but this was not successful. Health Centre staff stated that outreach activities for
HIV/AIDS are not possible due to limited human and financial resources.
Respondents in Ulyankulu Settlement and the host populations requested available
and free HIV testing. It is therefore recommended that the following is investigated:

       The reports that the VCT Centre in Kibondo District Hospital charges an
       informal fee for clients to receive their HIV results should be investigated and
       stopped.
       Sensitizing the population about the importance of HIV testing to their lives, and
       to the services available ­ HIV+ people could be used to promote positive living
       and acceptance, although skepticism was reported on previous occasions when
       a PLWHA had been invited to speak.
       Ensuring adequate staff for the Ulyankulu Health Centre VCT program,
       particularly concerning the pre- and post-test counseling.
       Increasing the number of VCT testing centers in rural regions.

Local communities also requested that the access and quality of health care in their
areas was improved such that drugs (including for OI and STIs) were readily available.

It is also recommended that Ulyankulu Health Centre is provided sufficient staff and
resources to adequately supervise dispensaries and ensure quality control of peer
educators within the Settlement and outside in Tanzanian villages.

 Harmonisation
In Tanzanian communities, the main disharmony noted was the disconnection between
the national HIV/AIDS policies and programs and the implementation and monitoring of
HIV/AIDS programs on the ground. Issues such as the VCT Centre at Kibondo District
Hospital charging an informal fee for clients to receive their HIV results is certainly
against the GOT policy - this service should be free of charge. Local government
officers adjusting HIV/AIDS messages to suit their own religious beliefs or biases is
another area in need of harmonization. Instigation of a hierarchical system of
supervision from higher levels is recommended. The researchers suggest this is the
responsibility of the MOH and TACAIDS.




                                          231
Social and Gender Assessment



                                    REFERENCES

  1.    Burns L and Spiegel P 2003. Southern Africa Workshop on HIV/AIDS and
                Refugees
  2.    Centre for the Study of Forced Migration, 2003. The Impact of the Presence of
                Refugees in North-Western Tanzania. UDS
  3.    ESRF 2003. Economic and Social Impacts of HIV/AIDS in Tanzania
  4.    Economic Research Bureau, 2001. Study on Burundian Refugees in
                Settlements in Tanzania. UNHCR and UDS
  5.    Emmanuel Mwasulama, 2004. Personal Communication. Ag. District Medical
                Officer (DMO), Kibondo
  6.    GLIA 2004. Great Lakes Initiative on HIV/AIDS Operations Manual
  7.    Kidondo District Council 2003. Annual Report for the Year 2003
  8.    MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2003. HIV/AIDS/STI Surveillance Report: March
                2003. NACP; Report Number 17
  9.    MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2003. Surveillance of HIV and Syphilis Among
                Antenatal Clinic Enrollees: 2001 ­ 2002. NACP
  10.   MoH (Tanzania Mainland), 2004. Behavioral Surveillance Surveys Among
                Youths, 2002. NACP
  11.   MHA, United Republic of Tanzania 2003. The National Refugee Policy
  12.   MHA 2004. National Refugee Statistics, April 2004
  13.   Prime Ministers Office 2001. National Policy on HIV/AIDS. Republic of
                Tanzania
  14.   Prime Ministers Office 2003. National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on
                HIV/AIDS (2003-2007). United Republic of Tanzania
  15.   Ramadhani A and Msuya C 2003. PMTCT Interventions in Refugee Settings -
                Draft Report of a consultancy mission to document PMTCT
                experiences in refugee camps of Western Tanzania.
  16.   Spiegel P 2002. Tri-country HIV/AIDS and Refugees Workshop - Kenya,
                Tanzania, Uganda
  17.   Spiegel P 2003. HIV/AIDS in Refugee Camps: Kenya and Tanzania. Mission
                Report
  18.   TACADIS 2003. National Core Indicators for Monitoring National Response to
                HIV/AIDS in Tanzania
  19.   TACAIDS 2004. Information leaflet
  20.   TACAIDS 2004. Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA Action Plans for
        5 Villages surrounding and Lugufu I and 11 Refugee Camps
  21.   UNAIDS 2001. Population Mobility and AIDS - Technical Note
  22.   Ulyankulu Settlement Officer, 2004. April 2004 Population Statistics for
                Ulyankulu Settlement
  23.   Ulyankulu Local Government 2002. Census figures
  24.   Ulyankulu Health Centre STI Clinical Officer, 2004. Personal Communication
  25.   UNHCR 2002. DRAFT: Summary Report on HIV/AIDS prevention, care,
                support and treatment program implementation in refugee operation in
                Western Tanzania from the Year 1997 to-date
  26.   UNHCR 2002. Strategic Plan and Policy on HIV/AIDS 2002-4
  27.   UNHCR 2003. Population, Morbidity and Mortality Statistics
  28.   UNHCR 2003. Tanzania 2003 Annual Protection Report
  29.   UNHCR 2003. UNHCR Workshop on Health, HIV/AIDS and Nutrition. Final
                Report. Hotel Inter-Continental Nairobi, 15-19 September 2003
  30.   UNHCR, 2003. PMTCT Evaluation 2003: Proceeding Report, 30th October
                2003
  31.   UNHCR 2004. March 2004: Quarterly Report
  32.   UNHCR 2004. Statistics for 2nd Quarter 2004 as of 16 July for Kibondo District
        Refugee Camps
  33.   UNHCR 2004. Nutritional Support to PLWHAs in Western Tanzania Refugee
                                          232
                                                          TANZANIA Country Report


           Camps and Surrounding Communities. January ­ March 2004
34. UNHCR 2004. Situation Analysis and Development of GLIA Plan of Action ­
           Lugufu I and II; and Lukole A & B Camps
35. UNHCR, 2004. UNHCR Briefing Note, SO Kibondo for 2003, July 2004
36. Urambo District Council 2003. Urambo District HIV/AIDS Control Programme.
           United Republic of Tanzania - Presidents Office - Regional
           Administration and Local Government
37. Urambo District Medical Office 2004. Taarifa ya Kudhibiti Ukimwi Wilaya ya
           Urambo Kuanzia: januari ­ Juni, 2004
38. Urambo District Medical Officer 2004. HIV Prevalence Statistics
39. Wikipedia 2004. On-line encyclopedia
40. World Bank 2003. Tanzania MAP
41. World Bank, Draft Guidelines for Social Assessment of HIV/AIDS Projects
    (undated)




                                    233
