Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4075 
Operation Name 
Second Infrastructure Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (32%);Power 
(32%);General transportation sector (32%);Telecommunications 
(4%) 
Project ID 
P111905 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA 
Republic of Indonesia 
Indonesia 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
BAPPENAS 
Jalan Taman Surapati No 2 
Jakarta 
Indonesia 
Tel: 62-21-336207 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Jl. Dr. Wahidin No. 1 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
Tel: (62-21) 384-6725 Fax: (62-21) 3500 842 
silaban.rio@gmail.com 
Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs 
Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Jakarta Pusat 10710 
Indonesia 
Tel: (21-21) 351 1462 
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 6, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 6, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 4, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Indonesia’s infrastructure investment fell from over 6% of GDP before 1997 to a low of just over 2% of 
GDP in 2001, and has since risen to around 3% of GDP. This level of investment has not been sufficient 
to meet the growing demand from existing infrastructure users, or to address the needs of the large parts 
of the population who do not have access to basic infrastructure services. 
 
The Government has recognized these challenges, and is actively seeking to increase the level and 
quality of infrastructure investment. Infrastructure policy constitutes a large part of the economic policy 
package (Inpres 5/2008) issued by the Coordinating Ministry of Economic Affairs in early 2008.  The 
Government’s wide ranging infrastructure program includes policy initiatives addressing national 
infrastructure (eg roads and electricity), sub-national infrastructure (eg water and sanitation), public-
Page  2
private partnerships, and cross-cutting governance issues including environmental management, 
procurement, and land acquisition. 
 
The Bank’s involvement recognizes the significant achievements of the Government’s reform program, 
which in turn addresses a central set of blockages to growth and poverty reduction. Through the IDPL 
series, the Bank is able to engage with the Government in dialogue focusing on the most critical policy 
bottlenecks, and to provide the Government with advice reflecting the Bank’s international experience. 
The IDPL series proceeds in parallel with policy loans supported by the Asian Development Bank and 
the Government of Japan, encouraging donor coordination in policy messages.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The broad objectives of the IDPL program are (a) increased quantity and efficiency of central 
government spending on infrastructure through improved subsidy policy and expenditure planning and 
budgeting; (b) improved sub-national infrastructure services through increased sub-national government 
spending and an improved incentives framework; (c) increased private investment in infrastructure 
through the establishment of a fiscally sound, credible and transparent PPP framework; and (d) 
enhanced governance for infrastructure through improved land acquisition, environmental protection, 
and procurement and audit processes within the Ministry of Public Works. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
This operation is the second of a proposed series of four DPLs in support of the Government’s 
infrastructure reform agenda.  The proposed operation would focus on key infrastructure achievements 
over the past year, including restructuring of debts of sub-national governments and their water utilities, 
improved planning of subsidies for the electricity utility, progress in project preparation and removal of 
land acquisition blockages for PPPs, and a new law on solid waste management. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Many of the reforms supported by the IDPL program will help to improve environmental outcomes.  
Increased sanitation, potentially higher electricity prices to promote energy conservation, promotion of 
recycling and sanitary landfills, and improved AMDAL processes are all reforms which would help to 
improve the environment.  Increased infrastructure investment also carries risks of negative 
environmental impacts. While the Ministry of Environment is responsible for the legislation covering 
environmental impact assessment, significant challenges remain to improve the capacity of agencies 
responsible for implementing this legislation, and to integrate environmental awareness into agencies 
responsible for infrastructure planning. The Bank is launching economic and sector work this year to 
help to address these challenges. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Michael Warlters 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-8150 
Page  3
Email: mwarlters@worldbank.org
 
