Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14725
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2778-IND)
JUNE 30, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otheTwise be disclosed without World Banl; authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: Rupiah (Rp)
At time of Appraisal
US$ 1.00 = Rp 1,650
Average Annual Rates During Project Years
1987                      1,647.67
1988                      1,705.00
1989                      1,835.00
1990                      1,918.00
1991                      1,940.00
1992                      2,058.27
1993                      2,111.01
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton            = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 kilometer (km)        = 0.6215 miles (m)
1 kilovolt (kV)         = 1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA) = 1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)         = 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    = 1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
EHV           - Extra High Voltage
GOI           - Government of Indonesia
IERR          - Internal Economic Rate of Return
JABOTABEK  - Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi area
LMK           - Testing and Research Center of PLN
PLN           - State Electricity Corporation
PPE           - Engineering Services Center of PLN
ROR           - Rate of Return
.t v.



FOR OF FICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Indonesia Power Transmission and
Distribution project (Loan 2778-IND, approved in FY87) prepared by the East Asia Regional Office, with
Part II prepared by the Borrower.
This Bank operation, the fifteenth in Indonesia's electric power sector, aimed at: (i) extending the
country's transmission and distribution network in order to achieve a balanced development of the sector;
and (ii) strengthening the engineering and research capability of the State Electricity Corporation (PLN).
All of the project's objectives were met, but with a three-year delay caused primarily by procurement
bottlenecks. The project enabled PLN to connect about 250,000 new customers. However, PLN's rate of
return covenant could not be complied with due to insufficient tariff increases and the impact of higher fuel
costs on the company's operations outside Java. Financial conditionality was subsequently relaxed (under
Loan 3602-IND, approved in FY93).
Considering that the project's objectives were primarily of a technical nature, its outcome is rated
as satisfactory but its institutional development only as modest . Sustainability is considered likely. Both
Borrower and Bank performance are rated as satisfactory. The PCR is of good quality overall.
No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2778-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ..........................................
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .....
Project Identity.1
Background  ...............................                             1
Project Objectives  ...........................                        2
Project Description ...........................                        2
Project Design and Organization  ..................                    2
Project Implementation  ........................                       5
Project Results  .............................                         6
Financial Performance .........................                        7
Project Sustainability ...................  ....                      10
Bank Performance .10
Borrower Performance  ........................                        11
Consulting Services  ..........................                       11
Project Relationship .11
Project Documentation and Data .12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                               13
PART III. STATISTIC SUMMARY .16
Related Bank Loans .16
Project Timetable .19
Loan Disbursements .19
Project Implementation  ........................                      20
Project Cost and Financing ......................                     21
Project Results  .............................                        22
Use of Bank Resources ........................                        26
Status of Covenants  ..........................                       27
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipicnts only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Transmission and Distribution Losses
2. Transmission Lines, Substations and Distribution Facilities
Implemented under the Project
3. Cost for Transmission Lines, Substations and Distribution
Facilities
4. Calculation of the Internal Economic Rate of Return
5. PLN's Financial Statements



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power Transmission
and Distribution Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2778-IND in the amount of
US$226.0 million was approved on February 6, 1987. The loan was closed on June 30,
1993, one year behind schedule; an undisbursed balance of US$3,193,443.79 million was
cancelled on November 17, 1993, the loan completion date.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department III of the East Asia and Pacific Region (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Part I and Part III) and PLN (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR);
the Loan and Project Agreements; Bank supervision reports; internal Bank memoranda;
correspondence between the Bank and PLN; PLN project progress reports; completion
reports prepared by consultants for PLN on major components of the project; and
missions to Indonesia in October 1993 and April 1994.






- ii -
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The main objectives of the project were to: (a) extend the transmission and
distribution network in Java to achieve a balanced development in generation, transmission
and distribution facilities, thereby optimizing the productivity of ongoing investments, and
to enable PLN to supply electricity to unelectrified areas to serve residential, commercial
and industrial consumers; (b) strengthen PLN by improving its engineering and research
capability and operating efficiency; and (c) support the Government's energy
diversification policy. These objectives were to be met by constructing transmission lines
and substations throughout Java and in Jakarta, and distribution facilities in the Jabotabek
area in West Java, developing PLN's Engineering Services Center, and modernizing and
expanding the facilities in PLN's Testing and Research Center, and by supporting the
engineering of the coal fired power plant at Paiton in East Java (Part I, para. 2.1).
Implementation Experience
2.           Overall, all main components of the project were completed successfully
notwithstanding the delays in implementation compared to the estimate of the SAR. The
main factors that affected the implementation were the long time required for PLN to
acquire land and rights-of-way for substations and transmission lines and to obtain permits
for construction, the slow process of bid evaluation and contract awarding, the protracted
period for the establishing of the letter of credits to contractors, and delays by contractors
in delivery of equipment and materials. These problems were not unique to this project
since most of the Bank-supported power projects in Indonesia had suffered two to three
years completion delays for similar reasons. Design of subsequent projects has addressed
the issue of environmental planning, land acquisition and procurement coordination during
preparation phase, and provided measures to increase the overall efficiency of PLN as well
as to improve its project implementation capacity (Part I, paras. 5.1, 5.2, 9.3 and 9.4).
3.           Cost savings compared to original estimates, allowed to expand the
development impact of the project by extending the physical scope of transmission lines
and substations. The final cost of the extended project was about US$387.6 million
equivalent. The increase in foreign exchange costs (attributed to the increase in project
scope) was financed from export credit. The cost of local components in US$ terms was
lower than the appraisal estimate for the original project scope, due to the devaluation of
Indonesian Rupiah during the project implementation period (Part I, paras, 6.4 and 6.5).



- iii -
4.           Due to the slow progress in the implementation of the transmission and
distribution components of the project, only about 90 percent of the loan amount was
disbursed by the original closing date of the loan. To complete disbursement, the closing
date was extended by one year from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993 (Part I, para. 6.6).
5.           All major covenants of the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were
met.
Results
6.           The main objectives of the project were essentially achieved and physical
targets substantially met or surpassed (Part III, Table 6). The extension of the network,
albeit with some delay, improved PLN's capability for supplying the rapidly growing
demand for electricity in Java, and enabled PLN to connect and serve electricity to about
a quarter of a million new consumers.
7.           The reduction of transmission and distribution losses in Java from
19.2 percent in 1986/87 to 11.8 percent in 1992193, to which the project contributed in
a major way, was a remarkable achievement. Strengthening and upgrading of the network
under this project together with other Bank-financed transmission and distribution projects
improved the efficiency and reliability of PLN's transmission operation. Similarly, support
to the Engineering Services Center has helped in a major way to develop effective design
and planning functions in PLN (Part I, paras. 6.1 and 6.3).
8.           Notwithstanding the overall positive impact of the project on sectoral
growth and PLN's institutional and technical development, the delays in implementation
had a negative effect on the power system  balance.  The three years delay in
commissioning the 70 kV lines and substations contributed to the transmission bottleneck
developed in recent years in West Java and encouraged some of the large consumers on
PLN's waiting list to invest in captive generating plants.
9.           The economic reevaluation of the project was carried out on the basis of
PLN's power development program in Java for 1986/87-1993/94, applying the
methodology that was used in the SAR. The ex-post internal economic rate of return
(IERR) has been estimated as 12.33 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of
17 percent (Part I, para. 6.7). Completion delays contributed largely, but not wholly to
a lower ex-post IERR than envisaged at appraisal.  Later accrual of benefits was
compensated somewhat in deferral of cost expenditures. In addition, on the financial side,
the reduction in PLN sales as a consequence of the implementation delays, contributed to
erosion in sales, PLN revenue and its financial performance.
Sustainability
10.          Continued high growth in electricity demand will assure an acceptable level
of benefits for the project throughout its economic life. PLN has adequately trained staff
and maintenance procedures in place to ensure the efficient operation of transmission and
distribution facilities constructed under the project. The ongoing corporatization and



- iv -
restructuring of PLN will further improve its financial performance and efficiency of its
operations (Part I, paras. 8.1 and 8.2).
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.          Delays in implementation could have been shortened by PLN providing
more effective project management and coordination of activities. With the engineering
functions now well established, PLN consequently has been placing more emphasis on
strengthening its project management capacity in all areas of operation (Part I, para. 10.4).
12.          Timely and efficient procurement of goods and services, and acquisition of
land and rights-of-way for the construction of transmission and distribution facilities are
the factors influencing PLN's project implementation performance. Generally, rigid
budgetary procedures, cumbersome contract negotiation procedures, unsatisfactory
performance of local contractors, and shortage of trained personnel within PLN, have
delayed the implementation of this and other previous projects (Part I, para. 10.3).
13.          To  address the factors constraining  PLN's efficiency  in project
implementation, the Bank has been focusing in its operational work on improving PLN's
internal procurement process and project management skills. Increased efficiency and
effectiveness in project implementation management have been made priority objectives
of subsequent Bank operations (Part I, paras. 9.3 and 9.4).
14.          Narrowly focused T&D projects will not in themselves lead to improved
efficiency and reliability standards if the Indonesian power system is to compare with best
services. Future projects, in addition to physical expansion of the network, need to
address the deficiencies in the transmission and distribution network, in capacity and
operation and in the consumer service functions.






INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name              Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Loan No.       : Loan 2778-IND
RVP Unit       : East Asia and Pacific Region
Country           Indonesia
Sector         : Energy
Subsector      : Power
1. Background
1.1         During the 1970s, the Indonesian economy grew at almost 8 percent per
annum. The dominant external influence on the economy was the huge expansion in
foreign exchange earnings from oil, which rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to
US$10.6 billion in 1980/81. Over the following five years,the economy was adversely
affected by unfavorable external developments,and accordingly the external terms of trade
deteriorated by more than 15 percent from 1981/82 to 1985/86. Since oil has been
Indonesia's major export commodity, the primary objective of the Government's energy
policy has been to maintain the level of export earnings by diversifying domestic
consumption away from oil to alternative and more economical energy resources such as
coal, hydropower, geothermal and natural gas. The Govermment's other major objectives
are to increase the welfare of the population by increasing the proportion of electrified
households, and to support economic growth through the supply of electricity to productive
users in urban and rural areas.
1.2         At the time of the project, week institutions and scarcity of trained
manpower were identified as major constraints to the rapid and efficient implementation
of the energy strategy. In the electricity sector, PLN needed to continuously enhance and
improve its capabilities in all areas of management, engineering, finance and account, and
manpower development to enable it to achieve its goals of reliable low cost service
provision, and to efficiently implement, operate and maintain the increasingly complex
projects and growing systems.
2. Project Objectives
2.1         The objectives of the Transmission and Distribution Project were to:



- 2 -
(a)   extend the transmission and distribution network in Java to achieve a
balanced development of generation, transmission and distribution facilities,
thereby optimizing the productivity of ongoing investments; enable PLN to
supply electricity to unelectrified areas to serve residential, commercial and
industrial consumers, reduce the growth of uneconomic captive generation
and help to reduce oil consumption;
(b)   strengthen PLN by improving its engineering capability,improving its
operating efficiency, and expanding and modernizing facilities in PLN's
center for testing and research; and
(c)   support the Government's energy diversification policy by the engineering
of the coal fired power plant at Paiton in East Java.
3. Project Description
3.1         The Power Transmission and Distribution Project comprised:
(a)   construction of transmission facilities in Java, involving about 151 km of
150 kV overhead lines, 222 km of 70 kV overhead lines, 34 km of 150 kV
underground cables, and 57 substations with a total transformer capacity of
2,071 MVA;
(b)   construction of distribution facilities in Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and
Bekasi (Jabotabek) areas, involving about 258 km of 20 kV overhead lines,
1,263 km of 20 kV underground cables, 1,191 substations and 347 pole-
mounted transformers, about 2,449 km of LV overhead lines and some
247,873 service connections;
(c)   equipment for PLN's Testing and Research Center (LMK); and
(d)   consulting services for:
(i) engineering of Paiton coal fired power plant in East Java; and
(ii) development of PLN's Engineering Services Center (PPE).
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         The transmission and distribution components of the project were designed
to ensure that the development of these facilities are in balance with the growth of
generation capacity in Java. Using funds from Loan 1365-IND, Beca Worley International
of New Zealand reviewed the development requirements for the transmission and
distribution program for the period up to 1987. PLN carried out further studies to define
the total need for transmission and substation development in Java up to 1990. A review
of the then ongoing transmission projects with respect to the required development
program identified the scope for the transmission and substation components of this
project.



- 3 -
4.2         The feasibility studies, preliminary survey and design work, and preparation
of specifications and procurement documents for the transmission and substation
components were carried out by PLN. Consultants were appointed to assist PLN in tender
evaluation, contract negotiations, engineering and construction management of the
transmission works: PT Citakomas in association with Ewbank Preece (UK) for West Java
and Jakarta; PT Indra Karya in association with Fichtner (Germany) for Central Java; and
PT Encona in association with NEWJEC (Japan) for East Java. These arrangements were
accepted by the Bank, and the work was financed under the Fourteenth Power Project
(Loan 2443-IND) until the loan expired in September 1992, subsequently it was transferred
to Loan 2778-IND.
4.3         The distribution component of the project covered the estimated
requirements for the extension of the distribution facilities in Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang
and Bekasi (Jabotabek areas) for two years period from 1988 to 1990. The project ensured
the continuation of the ongoing network expansion program in these areas, financed under
the Eleventh and Fourteenth Power Projects (Loans 2056-IND and 2443-IND). The
studies for identifying the reinforcement and expansion requirements up to 1990 were
completed by PLN, following up on earlier studies carried out by SOFRELEC of France.
Detailed engineering and construction of the distribution works were carried out by PLN's
own staff in the regional distribution offices. All procurement was centrally carried out
in PLN's head office.
4.4         The expansion of PLN's Testing and Research Center (LMK) is based on
a 15-year development plan, prepared with French assistance in 1987. The project
provided a part of the funds needed for procuring additional equipment for existing
laboratories.
4.5         The terms of reference for consulting services to help in the development
of the Engineering Services Center (PPE) were agreed between PLN and the Bank. The
center was established in 1986, as agreed under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-
IND), to integrate and optimize the use of expertise in project formulation, engineering
design and implementation.
4.6         In view of difficulties experienced in the past with the acquisition of land
for substations and rights-of-way for transmission lines, advance action was initiated for
them in this project. Surveys for transmission lines and purchase of land for substations
have already started during project appraisal, and special task forces were set up in PLN's
Planning Department and in the regional offices to accomplish land acquisition and obtain
permits for construction. It was agreed with PLN that all lands and rights-of-way would
be acquired no later than March 1988.
4.7         During project preparation it was recognized that the demand growth in
different parts of Java could change from the forecast, requiring alterations to the physical
components of transmission lines and substations included in the project. The project cost
estimate provided 10 percent physical contingencies to permit increase in the quantities of
materials required to cover such variations. PLN agreed to review annually the plan for
substations and transmission lines included in the project to identify the changes necessary.



- 4 -
Flexibility was also provided to use materials procured under the project for meeting
urgent needs for power supply at locations which may were not covered by the original
list of substations.
5. Project Implementation
5.1          Transmission Lines and Substations. This component of the project was
implemented in the following areas:
(a)   East Java Transmission Lines and Substations. The construction of
transmission lines and substations was completed in February 1992, about
14 months behind the appraisal schedule. Commissioning commenced in
November 1991, and the last branch line, Darmo Grande was put into
operation in July 1992. The major cause of delay was the extended bid
evaluation review period for the 150 kV GIS contract (June 1987-August
1988) and for the steel towers contract (March 1987-June 1989). The
engineering and construction supervision contract, which was originally for
a period of 36 month was extended by 19 months, due to delays in erection
and installation of transmission lines and substation equipment.
(b)   Central Java Transmission Lines and Substations. The turnkey contract
for supply and erection of materials and equipment was signed in June
1988, about 8 months behind the appraisal schedule, and the letter of credit
was established only in February 1989, which caused further delays in the
implementation. The Central Java transmission project was completed in
February 1992, about 14 month behind the appraisal estimate. However,
commissioning of urgent work portions, which were on PLN's priority list
to satisfy immediate needs in the region has already started in early 1991.
The original scope of substations and equipment supply were revised and
substantially extended to meet the actual requirements (para. 4.7). The
change of scope did not effect adversely the construction schedule, but the
engineering and construction supervision contract needed to be amended to
cover the increased amount of work.
(c)   Jakarta and West Java Transmission Lines. This was the largest and
most complex part of the project, comprising the construction and
installation of about 317 km overhead transmission lines and underground
cables, 17 new substations and 19 extensions, and 1,735 MVA transformer
capacity. The transmission lines and substations in the Jabotabek areas
were commissioned between April 1991 and July 1993. In West Java, at
the time of the loan closing date June 30, 1993, the erection of about 230
km overhead transmission lines including all 70 kV lines, and construction
of about eleven associated substations were still in progress. The projected
completion date for outstanding works was December 1994. The main
causes of delay were: (i) the time required for PLN to obtain land for
substations and transmission towers and permits from local authorities for
buildings, installation of cables and erection of overhead lines; and (ii) the



- 5 -
slow procurement process. Equipment supply contracts needed to be
amended during their design/manufacturing phase to comply with revised
technical specifications and their scope of supply was changed to suit actual
transmission and substation requirements (para. 4.7). The outbreak of war
in Bosnia has also affected the construction of transmission lines.
Energoinvest (Sarajevo) was not able to complete the delivery of steel
towers, therefore some missing steel members had to be locally procured
at a later stage of the project. The engineering and construction supervision
contract, which was originally for a period of 42 months, was extended to
a total period of 80 months to cover the additional services.
5.2         Jabotabek Distribution. The implementation of the distribution component
was completed in December 1993, a delay of three and a half years over the appraisal
estimate. Although design and biding process had already started during appraisal and
construction was on schedule up to the end of 1989, serious delays occurred later due to
late delivery of materials procured for the project. In May 1992 for example delivery of
some 132 sets of 20 kV switchgear cubicles was still awaited. The delays could have been
shortened by more effective project management, enabling the coordination and monitoring
of implementation against detailed work program and delivery schedules.
5.3         Testing and Research Center. Expansion of the center is progressing in
accordance with the long term development plans. Most of the instruments and equipment
procured under this project for upgrading testing, surveying and commissioning facilities
were installed and put into operation in 1991. Some quality control equipment and
instruments for the high voltage research laboratory were only commissioned in 1993/94,
mainly because of delays in installation, or missing parts and accessories.
5.4          Consulting Services. The US$3.3 million selected for technical assistance
to formulate in detail and carry out selected efficiency improvement measures was not
used. Instead, the proposed hydro renovation program in Java and the distribution
mapping project were further developed and implemented under the Power Sector
Efficiency Project (Loan 3097-IND). Other measures, including the improvement in the
availability factor of Suralaya thermal power plant and training of PLN staff were
undertaken with assistance from British Overseas Development Agency and from suppliers.
The respective funds were reallocated to cover the costs of the increased quantities of
transmission and substation materials under the project.
5.5         Design and detailed engineering of Paiton thermal power plant wads carried
out by Sargent & Lundi (USA), Integ (Canada) and PT. Citakonas (Indonesia), and funded
under Loan 2056-IND and Loan 2300-IND. Services provided by the consultants under
this project were bid evaluation and post contract engineering. Services were completed
in February 1989.
5.6         Technical assistance to the Engineering Services Center was to enable PLN
to handle routine engineering work within the shortest possible time and reduce its
dependence on engineering consultants. The consultants, Bechtel International, made 48
recommendations for the formation and development of PPE; the implementation of most



- 6 -
of these is in progress or completed. During the three-year period of their contract
(defined as Phase I and II of support services), the consultants held intensive training
programs in design and technology and provided internal support to PPE. The services
were substantially completed by March 31, 1991. All outstanding assignment and training
were finished by January 31, 1992. The consultants continued supporting PPE until end
of October 1993.
6. Project Results
6.1         Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were essentially
achieved. The extension of the network, albeit with some delay, improved PLN's facilities
for supplying the rapidly growing demand for electricity in Java, and enabled PLN to
connect and serve electricity to about a quarter of a million new consumers. The
augmentation and upgrading of transmission and distribution facilities under this project
together with other related projects financed under Bank Loans 2214-IND, 1982;
2300-IND, 1983; and 2443-IND, 1984, contributed to the reduction of PLN's transmission
and distribution losses from 19.2 percent in 1986/87 to 11.8 percent in 1992/93 (Annex 1).
The technical assistance provided for the development of the new Engineering Services
Center proved to be effective.  The center is already playing a major role in the
preparation and documentation of PLN's projects, and in the development of standard
specifications and designs. LMK, PLN's expanded and newly equipped testing and
research center has gained accreditation for certifying indigenously produced equipment
to national standards.
6.2         Notwithstanding the overall positive impact of the project on sectoral growth
and PLN's institutional and technical development, the delays in implementation had a
negative effect on the power system balance. The three years delay in commissioning of
the 70 kV lines and substations contributed to the transmission bottleneck developed in
recent years in West Java and encouraged some of the large consumers on PLN's waiting
list to invest in captive generating plants.
6.3         Physical Results. The physical targets of the project were substantially
achieved or surpassed. In accordance with Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement the
scope of planned transmission lines and substations was reviewed during the
implementation phase, and location of installation and quantity of equipment were adjusted
to meet actual requirements. As a result, about 660 MVA more transformer capacity and
about 52 more high voltage substation bays were installed compared to the original scope
of 1,411 MVA transformers and 136 switching bays. Under the Jabotabek distribution
expansion program about 247,873 new consumers were connected to PLN supply about
5,906 less than the appraisal target. The planned and actual scope of transmission lines,
substations and distribution under the project are presented in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2.
6.4         Project Costs and Financing. The appraisal estimate of the original project
scope, including physical and price contingencies, was US$366.2 million. The estimated
final cost of the extended project is about US$387.6 million equivalent as shown in Part
III, Table 5A. Although about 47 percent more transformer capacity and 38 percent more
HV substation equipment were installed under the extended project (para. 6.3), the overall



- 7 -
increase in costs is only about 6 percent compared to the appraisal estimate of the original
project scope. Cost savings due to lower than estimated procurement contract prices for
transformers and transmission materials covered most of the cost of additional equipment,
the remainder was financed from additional bilateral sources. The devaluation of the
Indonesian Rupiah during the project implementation period (from Rp 1,647 = US$1.00
in 1987 to Rp 2,110 = US$1.00 in 1993) contributed to lower construction costs in US$
terms. Breakdown of costs for transmission lines, substations and distribution is presented
in Annex 3, Tables 1 to 3.
6.5         The sources of financing include the Bank loan, cofinancing from Germany
(KfW) and funds from GOI/PLN (Part III, Table 5B). Financing from Germany, which
covered the foreign exchange costs of transmission lines, substations and control and
communication facilities for Central Java, increased from the appraisal estimate of
US$14.2 million to US$48.9 million, because of the increased project scope. Local funds
from GOI/PLN which financed the construction costs and part of the costs of locally
procured equipment and material, reduced from the estimated US$146.0 million to
US$140.1 million, mainly due to variation in exchange rate (para. 6.4).
6.6         Disbursement. The estimated and actual disbursements for Loan 2778-IND
are given in Part III. Against the loan amount of US$226.0 million, about US$205.0
million was disbursed up to June 30, 1992, the loan original closing date. To complete
disbursement with respect to various components of the project, the loan closing date was
extended by one year from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993. As of June 30, 1993 about
94 percent of the total investment was implemented and about US$212.3 million loan
amount disbursed. Disbursements against commitments continued till November 17, 1993,
when a remaining balance of US$3,193,443.79 was cancelled. Total loan amount
disbursed was US$222,806,556.21.
6.7         Economic Rate of Return. The economic reevaluation of the project was
carried out by applying the same methodology as was used in the SAR. The internal
economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated by analyzing PLN's development program
in Java for the period of 1986/87-1993/94, using PLN's actual data for investment costs
for generation, transmission and distribution which were commissioned during this period;
operation and maintenance costs; fuel costs; and annual energy sales. The benefits were
derived by using incremental sales resulting from the investments, and from consumer
surplus quantified for residential and non-residential consumers. The benefits were based
on 1993/1994 average tariffs. On this basis the ex-post IERR on PLN's development
program in Java for 1986/87-1993/94 period is 12.33 percent compared with the appraisal
estimate of 17 percent. The lower than estimated IERR is largely attributable to delays
in project implementation. The ex-post IERR calculation is presented in Annex 4, Tables
1 and 2.
7. Financial performance
7.1         A comparison of the appraisal projections under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND) and the actual financial results for 1987/88-1992/93



- 8 -
is summarized in Annex 5, Table 1; detailed comparative financial statements are given
in Annex 5, Tables 2 to 6.
7.2         Under the Seventh Power Project (Loan 1513-IND, 1978), a self-fmancing
ratio (SFR) covenant was adopted for the first time, with the objective of financing out of
internal cash generation, a reasonable proportion of PLN's investment program. The
agreed SFR was 30 percent by 1985/86, with interim targets for the intervening years.
While PLN was able to meet the interim SFR targets until 1984/85, the rate of return on
assets remained negative. The fact that PLN was able to meet the SFR covenant while its
operations had been incurring losses indicated that the SFR type of measure with the
covenanted levels was less than appropriate from the view point of financial viability.
7.3         Under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND, 1984), GOI/PLN
agreed to a covenant requiring annual rates of return (ROR) of at least 8 percent on
average net revalued fixed assets from 1986/87 onwards, with a minimum target of 6
percent in 1985/86. The SFR was retained as one of the performance indicators to be
monitored regularly to ensure PLN's self-financing capability. However, PLN fell short
of both the SFR and ROR targets for 1985/86. In 1986, it became increasingly apparent
that PLN would be unable to satisfy the requirements of the ROR covenant adopted under
Loan 2443-IND. The Government, PLN and the Bank then concluded that an ROR
covenant for PLN's operations as a whole was inappropriate in view of the largely
socially-oriented and fragmented nature of PLN's operations outside Java, and the revenue
covenant was modified under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan
2778-IND, 1987). Under the modified revenue covenant, PLN was required to achieve
annual RORs of not less than 8 percent by no later than 1988/89 for its operations in Java,
and a financial break-even situation for its operations outside Java by no later than
1990/91. Projections showed that PLN would be able to achieve a self-financing level of
25-30 percent with these covenants. However, the Government did not permit the
corresponding tariff adjustment in 1987/89, even though during this period PLN's
operating costs were substantially impacted by a large devaluation of the Indonesian
currency in September 1986, increases in the proportion of oil-based generation due to
drought, and inflation.
7.4         Since 1987, PLN's electricity tariffs have been increased three times by a
total of 60 percent (25 percent in April 1989, 20 percent in August 1991, and 13 percent
in February 1993). During the same period, the prices (excluding transportation) of fuel
oil and diesel oil have increased in total by 20 percent and 90 percent respectively.
Although PLN has continued to implement an action plan for sales promotion and
efficiency improvement in the operation of a large number of isolated and scattered small
systems outside Java, the resultant cost reductions have not been sufficient to offset the
substantial impact the fuel cost increases have had on the financial performance of the
outside-Java operations where more than 50 percent of the electricity generation is based
on diesel oil. Consequently, while PLN has been able to achieve for its Java operations
the annual ROR target of at least 8 percent since 1989, it has not been able to achieve a
financial break-even for its outside-Java operations. As a consequence, the target date had
to be shifted three times, the latest to 1994/95, as agreed under the Cirata Hydroelectric
Phase II Project (Loan 3602-IND, 1993).



- 9 -
7.5         During the processing of the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project (Loan
3602-IND) it was recognized that the rationale of using the break-even covenant for PLN's
outside-Java operations needed to be revisited in view of the overriding impact of the
increase in the price of diesel oil on the financial performance and the continued rapid
expansion of the infrastructure to meet the projected demand growth. The Government,
PLN and the Bank reached a consensus that the financial objectives that PLN should
pursue are: (a) reach the targeted 30-35 percent self-financing of its investment program,
reduced reliance on Government equity finance, and increased borrowings, (b) achieve
adequate return on equity capital; (c) maintain tariffs at sound levels; and (d) an ROR
covenant covering PLN's entire operation will be most appropriate.
7.6          PLN's collection performance has been generally satisfactory. The accounts
receivable position of customers other than government users has been kept at less than
one and one-half months of the yearly billing. The overdues from Government users,
which account for about 10 percent of PLN's sales, have remained under two months of
annual billing since end of FY1986/87.
7.7          PLN's accounts are required by its charter to be audited by Government
auditors. The audit reports are acceptable to the Bank, but have been subject of long
delays and have received qualified opinions from the auditors, most recently with respect
to inventory accounts. PLN has made substantial improvement in the areas commented
upon by the auditors. During the past several years, PLN has also made significant
improvements in its procedures for the closing of accounts, and has succeeded in
completing them usually within six months after the close of the fiscal year. During the
negotiation in May 1994 of the loan for the proposed Sumatera and Kalimantan Power
Project, PLN has agreed to provide its audited financial statements and the audit report
within six months of the close of its fiscal year.
8. Project Sustainability
8.1          The Power Transmission and Distribution Project will generate satisfactory
benefits throughout its economic life. The average annual growth in PLN's electricity
sales was about 16 percent over the past five years (1988/89-1992/93), and it is expected
that sales will continue to grow on average about 10 percent per annum up to year 2000.
Electricity sales in the distribution network expansion area (Jabotabek) accounted for
about 28 percent of PLN's total sales in 1992193. PLN has adequately trained staff and
satisfactory maintenance procedures are in place to ensure the reliable operation of the
transmission and distribution facilities constructed under the project.
8.2         For maintaining past rates of growth and improving the efficiency of
operations and quality of service, the GOI is committed to introduce major reforms to the
structure and regulatory framework of the power sector. The major aspects of the power
sector reform are the corporatization and restructuring of PLN to improve its financial
performance and efficiency of its operations, increase the participation of private investors
and operators, and strengthen sector finance through periodic power tariff adjustment. As
an initial step in reorganizing PLN, the GOI changed its corporate status, effective
August 1, 1994 from a state-owned agency with a social purpose (Perum) to a profit



- 10 -
oriented limited liability company (Persero). Restructuring of PLN will be implemented
on the basis of a 'Restructuring Plan" being prepared by PLN/GOI. The private sector
is expected to play a significant role in the development program to meet PLN's projected
sales. In addition to supplying power to PLN's grid system, private participation will
introduce competition and increase the efficiency of electricity production.
9. Bank Performance
9.1         The performance of the Bank from project preparation through project
completion was satisfactory. With the implementation of this project the Bank made a
positive contribution to the physical and institutional development of the power sector, and
helped strengthen PLN's financial position.
9.2         The project was appraised in 1984 but loan negotiations did not take place
until December 1986. The major factor which prevented the Bank from proceeding further
with the loan was the Bank's concern for PLN's financial viability. Negotiations were
deferred pending the finalization of a financial and operational plan required for PLN to
achieve the desired financial performance targets. In September 1986, GOI accepted the
efficiency and financial objectives stipulated by the Bank, and the loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project was approved in January 1987.
9.3         The main factors that affected the implementation were the delays in land
acquisition and the slow progress in the procurement process. Since such problems were
encountered in earlier projects, in this project the Bank agreed with PLN and GOI on a
time bound action plan for completing land acquisition and procurement to suit the project
implementation schedule. While the time-bound action plan could not be complied with,
a progress was made compared to past performance. Adoption of Bank guidelines for
preparing the environmental assessment of subsequent projects helped PLN to coordinate
land acquisition and routing of transmission lines with local authorities and land owners
in an early stage of the project, and to use appropriate planning and design to minimize
environmental impact.  Under the Power Transmission Project (Loan 3349-IND)
agreement was reached with PLN to monitor the environmental impact of the transmission
component and prepare quarterly progress reports on the status of land acquisition, related
compensation, and resettlement.
9.4         An important problem generic to the sector is the extended procurement
cycle for the award of contracts for equipment and materials, especially those under
parallel cofinancing (export credits), and appointment of consultants. The Bank continued
to address these issues in subsequent projects. Agreement was reached with PLN under
the Suralaya Thermal Power Project (Loan 3501-IND) to streamline the procurement
process within PLN and shorten the period between issue of tender and award of contract
from previously 210-240 days to 120-150 days. Under the Sumatera and Kalimantan
Power Project (Loan 3761-IND) the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents for
procurement were made mandatory in order to save preparation and review time and
reduce the procurement time cycle further.



- 11 -
9.5         A total of 34.7 staff weeks was spent on the supervision of this project
between 1987 and 1994. The amount of staff weeks and seven missions to Indonesia as
part of the global power portfolio management, seems to be on the low side for a project
with that complexity. It seems that the Bank staff did not pay appropriate attention to the
resource optimization programs, like the transformer reallocation program and flexibility
provision (para. 4.7) associated with the project. Closer monitoring of planning and
coordination of these programs with the implementation of the transmission components
could have reduced the delays in project completion.
10. Borrower Performance
10.1        The performance of PLN was generally satisfactory except in the area of
procurement and land acquisition where it fell short of the expectation of the appraisal
report.
10.2        PLN had active involvement in the design, specification and preparation of
the bid documents for the transmission and distribution component of the project. Lack
of PLN model specifications and bid documents, and inadequate coordination of equipment
standards between regions caused delays in the bidding process, additional costs and some
delays in delivery.
10.3        Completion of overall project implementation is about 36 months behind the
appraisal estimate of December 31, 1991. To prevent initial delays, PLN started the
survey of transmission lines and acquisition of land for substations, and the design and
bidding process for the transmission and distribution equipment during project appraisal.
Also special task forces were set up in PLN's Planning Department and in the regional
offices to accomplish land acquisition and obtain permits for construction. Despite all
these efforts PLN was not able to meet the timetable agreed with the Bank. The reasons
for delays are discussed in paras. 5.1 and 5.2. In procurement the source of delay lies
only partly with PLN. Rigid procedures for Public Sector Enterprises and statutory
requirements of endorsement and/or approval by Government agencies (EKKU,
BAPPENAS) at various stages of the procurement cycle exacerbates the process.
Consideration should be given to delegating full authority for procurement to PLN, who
will be accountable for its actions. This has special importance since PLN has now been
corporatized and converted to P.T. Persero.
10.4        Delays in implementation could have been shortened with more effective
project management and coordination of activities from PLN's part. PLN should appoint
dedicated project managers who will be responsible and accountable for the timely
implementation of the projects. Consideration should be given to delegating authority for
technical and budgetary decision-making to the project managers.
11. Consulting Services
11.1        The performance of all consultants on the project was satisfactory. Their
cooperation and team work with PLN staff was highly commendable. Transfer of



- 12 -
technology and training programs held by the consultants were successful and well
documented.
12. Project Relationship
12.1        Bank relationships with the GOI, PLN and other participatory agencies and
institutions on the project were good.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1        The legal agreements for Loan 2778-IND were quite adequate and
appropriate for achieving the project objectives.  The staff appraisal report was
comprehensive, and provided a useful framework for the Bank and PLN during project
implementation.
13.2        The quarterly reports prepared by PLN for the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project covered the physical and financial progress of only those project
components which were financed under Loan 2778-IND. Since the progress reports are
a valuable tool for project monitoring and supervision, it is recommended that they include
information for the entire project, covering all components, whether financed from the
Bank loan or from other foreign financing sources, or financed by PLN/GOI.
13.3       Integration of project data available within various departments of PLN into
a comprehensive database, updating and regular evaluation of the data; i.e., PLN's project
management and monitoring capacity needs to be enhanced and further strengthened. The
Analysis and Evaluation Division of PLN's Planning Department contributed substantially
for the preparation of this PCR by collecting and processing the data on project
implementation. It is recommended to strengthen this unit by updating its technological
resources and by providing specialist training to the existing staff, so that it can play a
more substantive role in project monitoring and evaluation in the future.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Evaluation of the Bank's Perfonnance
Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the project was
generally satisfactory. The efforts were very constructive in every salient matters
during the process of project implementation. Bank's involvement was diligently
maintained through the whole phases. In Negotiation phase, Bank had sent qualified
and competent mission so the scrutinizing process in establishing the project objective,
and also in assessing of the project cost, scope of work, financing plan and time
schedule of the project could be accomplished successfully in relatively short time
(about 3 months). In Appraisal phase, Bank fully involved in establishing Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) particularly in the assessment of cost planning, scope of work,
source of finance, time schedule, and delivered constructive suggestions during cost
revision and scope of work negotiations.  During Construction phase, Bank
persistently assisted PLN in supervision of procurement, project time schedule, cost
disbursement and PLN got some advices in solving the pending items prior to the date
when the loan was nearly closed. Bank extented the period of the loan which reflected
the mutual understanding between the Bank and the Borrower (PLN).
Based on the experience, PLN has acknowledged that 2 (two) major points need to be
pondered: i) in certain areas the process needs to be improved in order to decrease
the project implementation delays, and ii) preparation process of PCR and PPAR need
to be improved conceptually. PLN hopes that the Bank still assists PLN to cope with
difficulties. At the beginning of the Project, Bank's suggest is required to establish
the forms which should be filled-up by the Borrower during project implementation to
speed-up the preparation process and to convince the other PLN Divisions or
Consultants in preparing the monthly or quarterly progress report to be compatible to
SAR data forms.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance
During project implementation, PLN has made endeavor to improve the process.
However, many delays occurred and it has been noted that the delay caused by: i)
repeating tender for transmission tower procurement, ii) land clearance and land
acquisition, and iii) reissuing a new contract to other supplier to cope the material
shortage for steel tower due to war happened in Sarajevo Bosnia where Energoinvest
Factory as a previous supplier is located.
The delayed transmission projects which caused by land clearance and land acquisition
problems are tabulated as follows:



- 14 -
Table 2. 1.
Voltage           From - To           Circuit Length   Target Completion
(kV)                                    (kmc)             Date
150    Connection Kiari Condong           7.5          December '94
70    Jatibarang - Haurgeulis           42.0          December '94
70     Sukamandi - Haurgeulis           37.1          December '94
70     Kosambi Baru - Rengas Dengklok   26.3          September '94
70    Lainajan - Santosa                15.1          September '94
70     Santosa - Sumadra                20.1           December '94
70     Sumadrda - Pameungpeuk           31.0          December '94
Since the loan closing date was June 30, 1993, then it had been decided that the above
items have been financed by GOI/PLN until completed.
Comparing with the SAR time schedule, the delay time which caused by repeating
tender, land acquisition and land clearance for transmission and substation was about
51 months, and for distribution project was about 46 months.
PLN already made steps to improve the Project Site organization by adding Chief of
Staff for Planning in PLN Main Project Office and PLN Regional Office. This
improvement renders the organization to anticipate land acquisition/land clearance and
environmental difficulties. In the other hand, in site project management also can be
well preserved.
To improve the preparation of the PCR, Bank's guides/advices are needed for
developing internal process system monitoring particularly to strengthen Analysis and
Evaluation Division. It is recommended also that Analysis and Evaluation Division
in PLN should be more involved in the whole monitoring process of project evolution
and implementation by providing more staff and training the existing staff with specific
subjects as appropriate to develop its project evaluation capabilities.
It is realized that PLN has to improve continuously the internal coordination for
controlling the on going project among PLN's Divisions, Consultants and Project.
The Effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the
evolution and implementation of the Project
The effectiveness between the Bank and the Borrower relationship was generally good
in many ways in solving the problem occurred and also PLN has acknowledged there
was highly complementary with mutual understanding in all aspects of project
implementation.
In Procurement cycle, Bank mission advised PLN that the Bank would have no
objection to the invitation of bids for the materials, prior to the negotiations of the



- 15 -
loan. And also during the Project Implementation, the Bank renewed the closing
date of the loan to cover the delays.
The perfonnance of co-financiers and the effectiveness of the relationship between
the Borfower and co-financiers during the evolution and implementation of the
project.
KFW was the co-financier for Power XV Project, to finance the transmission project
in Central Java. The performance of co-financier was satisfactory and also the
relationship between the Borrower and co-financier during the evolution and
implementation of the project was good and effective. During the evolution and
implementation of the project, KFW gave many suggestions and guidances to PLN and
KFW provided also the financing for modification scope of work in transmission
project in Central Java.



- 16 -
PART m: STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.                                                 Year of
Title                       Purpose                   Approval        Status
Loan 2056-IND   To comprise (a) a distribution system  for    1981     Completed in
Eleventh Power  Jakarta and the regencies of Bogor, Tangerang          1988
Project         and Bekasi (Jabotabek) in West Java, involving
about 450 km of kV cables, 760 km of 20 kV
overhead lines; (b) a 150 kV voltage system,
involving five new substations in Jakarta,
46 km of underground double-circuit 150 kV
cables and 980 MVA of transformers;
(c) engineering of the next base-load thermal
power unit (at Paiton) in Java; (d) engineering
of the Extra High Voltage (EHV) Central-East
Java transmission line; and (e) management
consultancy for further improvements in PLN's
financial planning and control systems.
Loan 2214-IND   To comprise (a) construction of 110 (2 x 55)    1982   Completed in
Twelfth Power   MW extension of Kamojang geothermal power              1991
Project         station in west Java; (b) construction of the
third 400 MW thermal generating unit at
Suralaya, including engineering services for the
third  and  fourth  generating  units;
(c) distribution system improvements in Java,
North Sumatra and South Sulawesi; (d) a mini-
hydro development program in North Sumatra;
and (e) training facilities and services to assist
PLN's manpower development program.
Loan 2443-IND   To construct and install the third and fourth    1984  Completed in
Fourteenth      400 MW thermal generating units at Suralaya in         1992
Power Project    West Java; to extend the distribution network in
Jakarta,  Bogor,  Tangerang  and  Bekasi,
(Jabotabek), East Java and central Java; and to
provide consulting services for engineering and
construction supervision of transmission lines
and substations in Java and for engineering and
design of hydro projects.
Loan 3097-IND   To improve the economic, technical and institu-    1989    Implementation
Power Sector    tional efficiency of the electricity subsector.        underway.
Efficiency      The project comprises several components               Closing date
Project         including the extension of distribution facilities     12/31/94
in Java, including Jakarta. It also provides
technical assistance to improve distribution
management in Java.



- 17 -
Loan No.                                                 Year of
Title                      Purpose                    Approval       Status
Loan 3098-IND   To provide for the construction of the Paiton  1989    Implementation
Paiton Thermal   coal-fired power plant with an initial capacity of   underway.
Power Project    800 MW   and  an  ultimate  capacity  of             Closing date
4,000 MW in East Java; associated 500 kV and         09/30/95
150 kV transmission system; and technical
assistance to strengthen capability of Ministry
of Mines and energy in environmental matters
and train PLN personnel in power plant
technology.
Loan 3349-IND   To  expand, strengthen  and  upgrade the     1991    Implementation
Power           transmission facilities for the Java-Bali system;     underway.
Transmission    and to provide consulting services for the            12/31/96
Project         project, engineering and design for Units 5, 6
and 7 at the Suralaya thermal power plant, a
study  for  long-term   development  of
transmission network in Java, and site selection
and feasibility study for a new thermal power
plant in West Java.



- 18 -
Table 2: PRoJEcT TIMETABLE
Date                        Date
Item                               Planned                      Actual
Identification                      NA                           10/84
Preparation                         10/84                        10/84
Appraisal Mission                   12/84                        12/84
Loan Negotiations                   04/85                        11/86
Board Approval                      05/85                     01/20/87
Loan Signature                        -                       02/06/87
Loan Effectiveness                    -                       06/04187
Loan Closing                     06/30/92                     06/30/93
Loan Completion                       -                       11117/93
Comments: Loan negotiations were deferred pending the finalization of a financial and
operational plan required to enable PLN to achieve the agreed financial
performance targets. In the event, modified financial performance targets were
agreed.
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal        Estimated            Actual          Actual as %
Year & Semester      Cumulated         Cumulative /a       of Estimate
1988
Dec 31, 1987              1.0                7.9              797.0
June30, 1988             11.0               19.5              177.5
1989
Dec 31, 1988             36.0               39.6              110.0
June 30, 1989            71.0               73.3              103.3
1990
Dec 31, 1989            106.0              101.9               96.2
June 30, 1990           146.0              128.8               88.2
1991
Dec 31, 1990            186.0              159.6               85.8
June 30, 1991           210.0              182.3               86.8
1992
Dec 31, 1991            222.0              198.6               89.5
June 30, 1992           226.0              205.0               90.7
1993
Dec 31, 1992              -                206.7               91.5
June 30, 1993                              212.3               94.0
1994
Dec 31, 1993                               222.8               98.6
/a US$3,193,443.79 was cancelled from the loan, effective November 17, 1993. Total
disbursed amounts of the loan was US$222,806,556.21.



- 19 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal  Revised or     Actual (or
Indicators                              Estimate   Contracted   PCR Estimate)
1. Transmission lines and substations
(i)  Land acquisition completed     03/88                      06/93 La
(ii) Procurement contracts finalized  10/87                     06/89
(iii) Construction completed
East Java                     }             06/90          02/92 ax
Central Java                  } 12/90       02/92          02/92
West Java and                 }             04/90          12/94 L
Jakarta                       }             04/90          06/93
2. Distribution Equipment
(i)  Procurement contracts finalized  08/87                    08/87
(ii) Installation completed          06/90                      12/93
3. Testing and Research Center
Procurement completed           12/91                      01/94
4. Consulting Services for
(i) Engineering of Paiton
thermal plant                     n.a.      02/89         02/89
(ii) Engineering Services Center       n.a.      03/91          01/92 ad
Development Phase I and II
5. Project Implementation Complete       12/91                      12/94
La   As at 06/30/93 all land acquisitions were complete except for some tower locations and
rights-of-way for transmission lines in West Java.
Lb   Commissioning of transmission lines and substations was completed in 07/92.
L~ As at 06/30/93 about 72 percent of the transmission lines and 30 percent of the
substations were still under construction in West Java.
a4 Phase I and II of services were substantially complete by 03/31/91.



- 20 -
Table 5: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate /a   Actual (or PCR estimate)
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total     Local   Foreign  Total
1. Transmission Lines &     98.5   150.3  248.8        87.4&   195.4   282.8
Substation
2. Distribution             21.4    66.3   87.7        26.3    53.4    79.7
3. Testing & Research         1.3     8.6    9.9        0.3     10.6    10.9
Center
4. Consulting Services for:
- Paiton                   1.2      4.3    5.5       0.1      1.6      1.7
- Engineering Center       2.4      8.6   11.0       1.2      8.6     9.8
- Efficiency Improvement   1.2      2.1    3.3         -        -       -
5. Engineering & Construction  -        -      -        0.6      2.1     2.7
Supervision
Total Project Cost       126.0   240.2  366.2      115.9&   271.7   387.6
6. interest during construction  -   20.0   20.0         -      24.2    24.2
Total Financing Required   126.0   260.2  386.2    115.9   295.9   411.8
La Incorporates physical and price contingencies.
/b Final cost of transmission lines and substations in West Java is estimated.
B. PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Planned (SAR)           Actual (or PCR estimate)
Source of Funds        Local   Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total
1. IBRD                   -      226.0   226.0        -      222.8    222.8
2. KfW (Germany)           -       14.2    14.2       -       48.9      48.9
3. GOI/PLN             126.0      20.0La  146.0   115.9L&     24.2La   140.1
Total                126.0      260.2   386.2   115.9      295.9    411.8
,A Interest during construction.
&L Estimated. Remaining transmission works in West Java are completed under GOI/PLN
financing.



- 21 -
Table 6: PRoJEcT RESULTS
A. DIREcr BENEFITS
Indicator                               Appraisal Estimate      Actual
1. Transmission Lines
150 kV OH lines (km)                      173.5             150.5
70 kV OH lines (km)                       229.0             222.4
150 kV UG cables (Cm)                      49.0              34.3
2. Substations
150 kV and 70 kV transformers (MVA)     1,411              2,071
150 kV and 70 kV switching bays for
(a) Lines         (No.)                    76                120
(b) Transformers   (No.)                   46                53
(c) Bus couplers    (No.)                  14                 15
20 kV switchgear   (Units)                393                330
Substation buildings (Units)               25                25
3. Distribution Component
MV overhead lines  (Cm)                   215               258
MV cables          (km)                 1,191              1,263
LV lines           (kln)                2,417              2,449
Substations
(a) Pole mounted   (No.)                  295               347
(b) Others        (No.)                 1,210              1,191
Service Entrance    (No.)             253,779            247,873
4. T&D Losses in Java                     1986/87           1992/93
Transmission system losses (%)              5.55               3.14
Distribution system losses  (%)            14.28               8.67
S. Testing and Research Center (LMK)                As of 11/01/1993
Testing equipment and instruments         NA    215  different  types  of
equipment were installed, of
wh i ch  2 0 8  w ere
commissioned.
6. Engineering Services Center (PPE)     Planned    as of 01/31/1992
Training courses by subject             177             220
Lecture classes by student hour       19,850         31,952
Workshops by student hour             13,900         21,599
Model specifications (total No.)        128             195
Model specifications prepared by PPE    108             107
Design guides (total No.)               110             121
Design guides prepared by PPE             9              18
Comments: Detailed list of transmissionlines, substations and distribution equipment covered
by the project are presented in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2.



- 22 -
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal Estimate     Actual
(at full development)
Economic Rate of Return (EERR)               17%                 12.33%
Comments: Details of the economic analysis of PLN's investment program in Java for the
period 1986/87 - 1993/94, of which the Power Transmission and Distribution
Project was a part, are presented in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2.
The lower rate of return is due primarily to the extended implementation period.



SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
PLN's actual financial statements for 1987/8S - 1992193 and thc relaed appraisal projectios under the Power Transmision and Distribution Project are preeneed in Annex 7, Tables 2 to 6.
ohc foilowing table summarizes the key operational results forecast in the SAR, compared with actual remults.
Fiscal Year                          1987/88            1988/89               1989/90               199091               199192                12
Apr.    Actual     Appr.    77ud         Appr.    Actu                    w Appr.    Actual              Alppr.  Ac
Average eariff (Rp/kWh)
PEN tarl                     95.4      92.6    118.8        91.9      126.9     114.1      139.3      113.2     139.3      129.1      139.3     137.1
- Increase(%)                 (0.4)     (0.9)    24.5       (0.8)      6.8       24.2        9.7      (0.8)       0.0       14.0        0.0       6.3
Java                         93.8      91.0    116.8        90.5      124.7     112.1      136.S      111.2     136.8      127.6      136.1     135.7
- Increase (%)                (0.4)     (0.8)    24.5       (0.6)      6.8       24.0        9.7      (0.8)       0.0       14.7        0.0       6.4
Outside Java                101.8      98.5    126.7        97.0      135.3     121.3      148.5      120.6     148.5      134.6      148.5     142.5
- Increase (%)               (0.4)     (1.4)     24.5       (1.5)      6.S       25.0        9.7      (0.5)       0.0       11.6       0.0        5.9
Energ sles (CWh)
LNeNtal.1                   16,967    17,077    19,430    20,027     21,983     23,435    24,656     27,741     27,560    31,481     30,762     34,965
Java                        13,477    13,398    15,438    15,692     17,421     18,467    19,450     22,043    21,619    25,078      24,029    27,837
Outside Java                3,490     3,679     3,992      4,335      4,562     4,968      5,206      5,698     5,941      6,403      6,733     7,128
Operati  revenues (Rp billion)
PLr  total                   1,673    1,629     2,372      1,899      2,863     2,757      3,518      3,234     3,935      4,178      4,396     4,917
Java                         1,307     1,255    1,853      1,464      2,231     2,135      2,728      2,524     3,033      3,285      3 373     3 872
Outside Java                  366       374       519        435       632        622        790       710        902        892      1,023     1,045      
Operat'n expcnAsc (Rp billion)                                                                                                                                > 
OPLN en         bl           1,695     1,639    1,999      1,896      2,301     2,194      2,568      2,920     2,899      3,516      3,296     4,247      Z
Java                         1,183     1,102    1,426      1,274      1,621      1,444     1,778      1,962     2,028      2,351      2,284     2 739            w
Outside Java                  512       537       573        622       680        750        790       958        871      1,165      1,012     1,508
Operatin   orncom  (Rp biIlion) 
OPLNatiom      b              (22)      (10)      373          3       562        563        950       314      1,036        661      1,100       670
Java                          124       153       427        192       610        691        950       562      1,005        934      1,089     1,133
Ouesid Java                   (146)     (163)     (54)      (187)      (48)      (128)         0       (24)        31       (273)       11       (463)
PLN total                     101       101        84        100        80         80         73        90         74         84        75         S6
Java                           91        88        77         87        73         68         65        78         67         72        68         71
Outside lava                  140       143       110        143        108       127        100        136        97        130        99        144
Rate of return (%) (a
PLN total                    (0.4)      0.2       4.9        0.0       5.4        6.3        7.5       3.0        6.8        5.7       6.1        4.9
Java                          3.6       4.1       8.0        3.8       8.0       10.6       10.6       7.5        9.6       11.7       8.8       12.0
Outside Java                 (8-9)    (11.5)     (2.4)      (9.9)      (I .)    (5.3)       0.0      (8.3)       0.7       (7.6)      0.2      (10.6)
Ratios for PLN
Self-financing ratio as % of
capital e enditures:
Annu.Y                       12.6       6.9      19.1       15.2      18.6       32.3       24.8      30.7       29.3       21.5      31.9       10.9
3-year moving average lb     15.8      13.4      16.3       14.7      17.0       17.3       21.1      25.5       24.6       26.3      28.8       17.1
Debt as % of debt plus equllt /c  51       41       54         39         56        36         56         34         56        30         55        36
Debt service coverage rauo (tunes) Id  1.6  1.1      2.1        1.3        1.7       2.0        2.0        1.8       2.2        2.9        2.4       2.6
Current ratio (times)             2.0       1.1      1.6        0.9        1.6        1.4       1.7        1.4        1.7       1.3        1.8        1.3
/a On average net revalued fixed assets in operation.
76 Current plus two preceding years.
7Tc Includes consumers' contnbutions; excludes revaluation surplus.
rM Excludes consumners' contributions.



- 24 -
D. STUDIES
Purpose
as defined                                Impact of
Studies                    at appraisal              Status             study
1. Hydro plant renovation       Efficiency improvement }   Performed under the
}   Power Sector
2. Distribution mapping         Improvement of       }   efficiency Project
distribution database   )   (Loan 3097-IND)
3. Improvement in the availability   Efficiency improvement  Carried out with
factor of Suralaya thermal plant                       British ODA



- 25 -
Table 7: USE OF BANK RESOuRCES
A. Staff Inputs (in staff weeks)
FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 Total
Preparation    1.1  11.9    -    -    -    -        -     -    -      -     -     -  13.0
Appraisal       -  21.1    -    -    -        -    -      -    -      -     -     - 21.1
Negotiations    -  14.0  13.0  27.8    -      -     -     -    -      -      -    - 54.8
Supervision     -     -     -   3.4  16.5  5.2  3.4  0.6   1.5  2.3   1.8    - 34.7
Other (PCR)     -     -     -    -    -    -        -     -    -      -   6.4   2.0  8.4
B. Mission Data
Month/   No. of   No. of Days Specialization Performance Type of
Year   Persons   in Field Ja  Represented Lb  Rating Lc  Probiles
Preappraisal       10/84      2          18           E,F
Appraisal          12/84      2          18          E,F
Post-appraisal I   03/85      2           6           E,F
Post-appraisal II  07/85      2          13          E,F
Post-appraisal HI  10/85      2          12          E,F
Post-appraisal IV  02/86      1          18          E
Post-appraisal V   09/86      3          26          E,F,O
Supervision I   08-09/87      2          17          E,F            1
Supervision I   04-05/88      3          20          EC,E,F         1
Supervision Il    09-10/88    3          20          EC,E,F         1
Supervision IV     10/89      3          19          EC,E,F         1
Supervision V   06-07/91      2          26          E,F            2    Management
Supervision VI    10-11/91    1          15          F              2    Management
Supervision VII   10-11/92    2          26          E,F            2    Management
Completion I       10(93      2          19          E,F
Conmpletion II     04/94      2          18          E
/a  The days in field relate to the total duration of mission for multiple activities.
lb   E  =Engineer
EC  = Economist
F  = Financial Analyst
0  =Other
/c   1 = No significant problems
2 = Moderate problems
3 = Major problems. Appropriate actions are being taken to address these problems.
4 = Major problems. They are not being addressed adequately.



- 26 -
Table 8: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section                                                             Compliance
Applkcable                 Description of Covenants                  and Remarks
Loan Agreement
3.02 (a)   Subsidiary Loan Agreement with PLN             Complied
4.01 (a)   Review annually potential changes in load growth of  Being implemented
lava power system.
4.01 (b)   Review PLN's investment budget for next FY and its  Being implemented
balance  among  generation,  transmission  and
distribution.
4.01 (c)   Review  annually  PLN's development plan  and  Being implemented
associated financial forecast and financing plan.
4.02 (a)   GOI departments/agencies' overdues not to exceed  In compliance
2-month total for GOI.
6.01      Subsidiary Loan Agreement executed.             Complied
Project Agreement
2.06      By 12/31/87 and annually until project implementation,  Complied
review plan for transmission lines and substations
included in project and adjust plan as necessary.
2.07      PLN to carry out acceptable plan for controlling and  Complied
reducing system losses in FY86/87 and thereafter.
2.08      Carry out comprehensive transformer relocation  Complied
program for substations included in program.
2.09      Carry out action plan for efficiency improvements in  Being implemented
all operations.
3.04      Furnish annual consumer connection plan annually.    Being implemented
4.02      PLN shall periodically review LRMC and tariffs and
discuss review with Bank.                      Being implemented
4.03      For 1986/87 (and annually thereafter) revalue fixed  Being implemented
assets and accumulated depreciation.
4.04      PLN not to incur any debt unless reasonable forecast  In compliance
of revenues and expenditures show net revenues for
each FY during term of debt at least 1.5 times
projected debt service on all debt.
4.05      1) Prepare 10-year financial forecast based on  Being implemented
development plan.
2) Test each proposed development plan for financial
feasibility.
3) Develop financing plan for first 5 years.
4) Ensure recommended development plan, etc.
reviewed and approved by board (and GOI/Bank).



- 27 -
section                                                               Compliance
Applicable                  Description of Covenants                   and Remarks
4.06 (A)   1) PLN (from time to time) take all measures to realize  In compliance
for its Java operations, no later than FY88/89 and each
PY thereafter, annual ROR of at least 8%.
2) For non-Java operations, PLN to take all measures
to produce for each FY after Fy ending 03/31/90, total  Break-even target teat year
revenues not less than the sum of total operating  revised to fiscal year ending
expenses  and  amount by  which  debt service  03/31/95, per Art. 4.05 (a)
requirements exceed depreciation provision.      of Project Agreement for
Ln. 3602-IND.
Covenant modified under
Sumatera and Kalimantan
Power Project (Loan
3761-IND)
4.06 (B)   Before 12/31 each year, PLN to review adequacy of  Being implemented
tariffs to mest requirement in 4.06 (A). Art. 4.06 (B)
of Project Agreement for Ln. 3097 shows latest
refinement of this covenant.



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION LOSSES
No.          In           1S 191982/ 190131981/M           1 /         1913/54    1945    191S/86    1936157    19g7/33         19S8/89     1989/90      1990191     1991/92     19293
A.    Oiimde Java         20.96       17.40      22.29      22.41      21.73       21.17      21.21      19.43      1.31        18.16        17.85       17.54       15.97       13.97
Trmuuima            1.88       2.47       2.21        1.95       2.12        1.91       1.95       1.96       2.28         2.39        1.69         2.11        2.13        1.93
Dkb*io             19.08      14.93      20.08       20.46      19.61       19.26      19.26      17.47       16.03       15.77       16.16        15.43       13.84       11.99
B.    Javs                18.34       18.20      17.73      18.22      20.59       19.90      19.37      19.83       18.34       16.53        15.04       14.91       13.40       11.81
T      _nim         3.99       3.69       4.25        4.15       4.35       4.92        5.91       5.55       3.65         3.18        3.27         2.61        2.73        3.14
Dim    o           14.55      14.51       13.48      14.07      16.24       14.98      13.46      14.28       15.19       13.35       11.77        12.30       10.62        8.67
C.  , domda                19.46      18.02      18.72      19.10      20.83       20.59      19.75      19.74       18.73       16.88        15.82       15.64       14.11       12.42
Tranamniion         3.54       3.42        3.30       3.68       3.88       4.23        5.07       4.73       3.36         3.01        2.96         2.54        2.63        2.95
Dhributk           15.92      14.60       14.92      15.42      16.95       16.36      14.63      14.96       15.37       13.37       12.86        13.10       11.43        9.47
oo



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
QuANT1rTrEs OF TRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT
1. TRANSMISSION LINES
East Java            Central Java            West Java               Jabotabek                Total
No.         Item
Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal    Actual    Appraisal    Actual    Appraisal   Actual
1.   150 kV O/H lines        25.0      16.1         80.5      67.4          53.0      47.0          15.0     20.0         173.5    150.5
Length in route km
2.   70 kV O/H lines           -         -           -          -          219.0     222.4          10.0       -          229.0   222.4
Length in route km
3.   150 kV U/G cables       10.0        6.9         -          -            -         -            39.0     27.4          49.0    34.3
Length in route km
2. SUBSTATIONS
Quantity
No.                              Item                                       Unit
Appraisal               Actual
1.     150 kV and 70 kV transformers                                       MVA                       1,411                   2,071
2.     150 kV and 70 kV switching bays for:
(a) Lines                                                    No.                        76                      120
(b) Transformers                                             No.                        46                       53
(c) Bus Couplers                                             No.                         14                      15
3.     20 kV switchgear                                                    Units                      393                      330
4.     Substation buildings                                                Units                       25                       25



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
QUANT1TIES OF MATERIAIS FOR DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
Appraisal                                   Actual
Item            Unit
Jakarta                                    Jakarta
Tangerang    Bogor    Bekasi    Total    Tangerang    Bogor    Bekasi    Total
MV overhead lines        km          170        32        13       215         189          43        26         258
MV cables                km        1,024       119        48     1,191       1,059          151       53       1,263
LV overhead lines        km        2,030       290        97     2,417       2,053         297        99       2,449
Substations
(a) Pole mounted         No.         227        50        18      295         259           63        25         347
(b) Others               No.       1,041       121        48     1,210       1,037          117       37       1,191
Service entrance         No.     190,334    50,755    12,690  253,779      188,134       48,899   10,840     247,873
.            _   .~~~I



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBULION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATIONS COVERED BY THE PROJECr
A. Transmission Unes
Apprisal                                                                                        Aetual
Name                      Decription          Route (km)                 Name                       Deription          Route (Oi)              8tai                 Remarks
Eat Java                                                                EastJava
Darmo Grande Branch            150 kV - 2 CCT                  5.0 km   Dramo Ganide Branch              150 kV - 2 CCT                 1.5 km   Commisione      07-01-92
Sukolil - Ngagel               150 kV - 2 CCT. UGC             4.5 km   Sukolilo - Ngagel                150 kV - 2 CCT. UGC            3.0 km   Commir ioed      11-15-91
Nged-Simpn                     150kV-2CCT UGC                  5.5km    Ngg--Sinaan                      150kV-2CCT UGC                3.9km   Commisined         11-15-91
Tama- e-Kxica                  150 kV-2CCT                    20.0km    T          rlae -Kras            }150 kV -2 CCT                12.0 km   Commisioned      03-05-92
35.0 kin                                   150 kV - 4 CCT                2.6 km   Commisioned      03-05-92
23.0 km
Cmtral Java                                                             CaItral Java
Jogye Bmt lncomer              150 kV - 2 X 2 CCT              8.0km   Jogya Bart Incomer                150 kV - 2 X 2 CCT            4.4 km  Commissioned       10-23-90
Purwodadjl=comer               150kV - 2CCT                    7.0km   Purwodadilncomer                 -
KMaten - Wonogiri              150 kV - I CCT                 35.0 km   Solo-Selatan - Wonogiri          150kV - I CCT                31.5 km   Commisioned      03-11-91
Ungn- Tsggung                  150kV -2 CCT                   30.0km    Ungamn- Tsnggung                 150kV- I CCT                 28.2km   Commisioned       08-10-91
Wates Incomer                  150 kV T Connection             0.5 km   Wates Incomer                    150 kV T Connection           0.8 km  Commissioned      03-01-91
80.5 km    Secang Pa1D, Solo Scelan       150 kV Loop iii                2.5 kma  Commisioned      02-01-91
67.4 km                                                           W
West Java                                                               Wed Java
Rangkas Bitung - Menes          70 kV - Ist CCT               42.0 km   Rangkm Bitmg - Mem               70 kV - 1ot CCT              50.8 km   Not compled                  Towers from
Cigeielen.  iLa T0an              CkV-re2C                                        - 25.j kn                                                                                  Energoinvest
(Rerouting part of EXL line)    70 kV - 2 CCT               25.0 ki      (Rerouting pan of Fist. line)                                                                     (Bonima) are
Rumadra - Pnmeungpeuk           70kV- Ist CCT                 37.0 km   Sumadrm - Pameungpeuk            70kV - lst CCT                31.0 km   Not compkleed               not complete.
Jatilban - Haurgeulir           70 kV - let CCT               42.0 km   Jatibarang - Haugeulie           70 kV - Ist CCT               42.0 km   Not completed               Covered
Haurgeulia - Sukamandi          70 kV - lst CCT               45.0 km   Psdalaang - Cibebat              70 kV - Ist CCT               37.1 km   Not completed               local
Padalsng - Cibmbet              150kV - 2 CCT                 16.0 km   Kiacondong Incomer               150kV - 2 CCT                  9.0 km   Commisioned      04-03-     procmanent
KiarcoDdong Incomer             150 kV - 2 X 2 CCT             5.0 km   Kosambi Baiu - Rengadengklok    150 kV - 2 X 2 CCT              7.5 km   Not completed
Koaembi LTns - Pengssdengklok   70 kV - Ist CCT              28.0 km   Banjar - Majenn                  70 kV - Ist CCT               26.3 km   Not completed
B njar - My-ng                  150kV - 2 CCT                  320 km   Sumadre- Santo.a                 150 kV - 2 CCT                30.5km   Coniored          07-06-3
272.0 km    Santn - Lanja                   70 kV -2 CCT                 20.1 km   Not completed
70 kV - 2 CCT                15.1 km   Not competed          I:
Jabotabek                                                               Jabotabek
Belai - Manda - Cekung         150 kV - 2 CCT, UGC            10.0 km   Bekasi - Manida                 150 kV - 2 CCT                 11.0 km   Commissioned    06-29-93
Murkarang - Gambir                                                      Murakng - Gambir
(Budi Kemulisan)             150 kV - 2 CCT, UGC           15.0 km      (Budi K-nulian)               150 kV - 2 CCT, UGC           11.2 km   Commissioned     06-17-92
Cibinong - Cilkungsi            70 kV - 2 CCT                 10.0 km   Cibinong - Ciemngi
Cikarang Incomer               150 kV - 2 CCT                  5.0 km   Cikarang Incomer                -
Cikupa Incomer                 150 kV - 2 X 2 CCT              5.0 km   Cikupa Incomer                  -
Cawang- Setiabudi              150 kV -2 CCT, UGC             14.0 km   Cawang - Setibudi               150 kV - 2 CCT, UGC           10.0km   Commisionad       09-16-92
Pordok-Klspa Incomer           150 kV-2CCT                     3.0km    PorIok-KelapaIncomer            150 kV-2x2CCT                  8.0km   Commiisioned    01-29-93
Kandn SapiIncomer              150 kV - 2 CCT                  2.0km    Kandang Sapi Inoomer            150 kV - 2 X 2 CCT             o.0km                          )>    Relocted to
64.0 km   Jatake - Maxi mengando          150 kV - 2 CCT, UGC             1.1 km   Commiioned      01-06-92   Daay s
Phmpa ng- Gambir Bar            150 kV - I CCT, UGC            5.1 km   Commisioned      03-05-93
Pondok Kespa - Bekesi           150 kV - 2 CCT                 1.0 km   Commisioned      01-29-93
47.4 km



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATIONS COVERED BY THE PROJECF
B. Substations
App                                                    I                                  Adual
Veosge      Trutemer         Number                                          Vokage       Truiornur          N    u
Luiaion             (kV)         Capacy         or baq      Ramwks             L1igh.            (kV)      Cupaty (MAVA)    of                       9St"                             Ratwks
(MVA)
RAg Java                                                                       ER  Ja
Darmo Grande            150             I x 50           4         New SIS       Darmo Grande         150              1 x50             7       Cm,'muuioed       07402-92     New S/S
Nged                    150             1 x 20           4         New S/S      Npgle                 150             1 x 20            7        Commi icned       11-15-91     NewS/S
Simpang                 150             1 x50            4         New S/S      Siw                   150              I x 50            5       Cm iioned         11-15-91     New S/S
Krimn                   150                              2            -         Krion                 150                -              2           fi             03-5-92      Ex-poi
TaN                     150                              2            -         Tande                 150                -              0                                       New GIS CMAS (,eocatd in
Segormdi Brimch)
Sukjlo                  150               -              2            .         Silo                  150                               2        Cm;oiniuied       11-15-91     Emanion
Segomdu              150                                2       Commiued          11-30-91     Engim/Rew o.ad from Tane
Cental Jma                                                                      Cesiral Ja
Ungr                    150               -              2            -         Unpon                 150                -               1         miuine          06-17-91     E     nue
Wonogiri                150             I x 16           2         Newv S/S     Wenei                 150             1 x 16             1       C(mimioed         063-28-91    New S/S
Peka1oasga              150             1 x 30           1            -         Peimlnga                -                -               -                            -         Relocated to IAmigu
Yoga Baza               150             1 x 30           3         New S/S      Yoga Bufat            150              1 x30             3       Cmnmaiaoed        10-23-Y0     NewS/S
Pur*vdadi               150               -              3         New S/S      Purddi                  -                                -             -                        -
Tangguw                 150               -              4         New S/S      Tanggmg                 -                -               -                            -         -
Kiole                   150               -              3            -         Kioa                  150              1 x 16            1       Comismgioed       12-03-90
Wa                      150               -              I         New S/S      Wales                 150              1 x 16           3        Cemminimed        03-01-91     New S/S
tMhjmug -150                              -              2            -          Wbuj                 150                -              2        Commeioned        0-24-93      Eximaon
Ria Lao              150              I x 16            1       Cemmimiofed       04-12-91     Exemin
Ka Eisuip            150              1 x 30            5       Commijioned       09450-        New S/S/treimbd from Pb cmgu
Puti                 150              I x 16           3        Cemmiesimied      02-01-91     NewS/S
Secong               150              1 x 16            3       Commimioned       01-0-01      New S/S
Solo Sckimn
(Wtoa)               1S0              1 x 30           6        C(mmiuaimed       12-06-90     New S/S
Solo Bad  (iapr)     150              1 x 30            1       Canmmiaked        04-08-93     Pt;mon
Wet Jaa                                                                         Wed Jawa
hMi                      70             I x 10           I         New S/S      Mm                     70              I x 10           2        Cemnimimued       06-13-94     Now SS
Rm-ghbitumg              70               -              1            -         Ra kb g                70                -               I       Not opied               )>     Waiting Ue compgiin of TA
Wil be cmpleted atthde d ef '94
blharng                  70               -              I            -         jhbug                  70                                1       Nt complided                   Will be compided at he mnd of S94
Cibul                   150             2 x60            5         New S/S      Cibabat               150             2 x60             6        Commistioned      04-06-93     NewS/S                                          U
Kiuaoondong             150             2 x 60           7         New S/S      Kiofaood-g            150             2 x 60             a       Not completd                   Problem: i1_d aquiti., New S/S
Tadkblays               150             1 x 15           1            -         Taslkahy              150             I x 15            3        Commisioned       04-02-92
PamexW                   70             1 x '10          I         New S/S      Pamag-k                70             1 x'10             2       Not compied             )      New S/S
Hauglis                  70            I x'10            3         New S/S       Haurgsulk             70             1 x 10            3        Commissioned      09-27-94
Lanmpn                   70                              2            -         Lj.n                   70                -              2        Nt cempleied                   WUl be  empkWed atu s dd S'94
Suudm                    70               -              4         New SIS       Sueemdm               70             1 x '10            4       Nd complted             )      New S/S



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATIONS COVERED BY THE PROJECT
B. Substations
Appr                                                 I                                 Actd
vdbg        Tratui,er        Nu_c                                            Vellge      Tranur            N    _umb
Locin             (IV)         CaPd            of ba       Rrnwrka          Labim              (kV)         Capay           at bas                 Stu                                R wks
(MVA)                                                                        WMVA)
Kombi Bam           150             I x 30           3            -        lmbi Bam              150             I x 30            1       Commiuioed         03-23-92
C;pmg               150             I x 60           1                     Cigerelong             150            1 x60             1       Commiujoned        02-03-92
CiEgm               150               -              3            -        Cilegn                150               -              3        Not cmpleed                     W2l be completed at the and of '94
Sum-big              70             1 x 10           1            -        Sum ig                  0                       -                                               Trfonmet reloked to Clmil
Kmcak                70             1 x 10           I        New S/S      Kiacak                 70               -              -                                        Tmiflrmer rocdW to Bmmr
Ptdall-ng           150               -              2            -        Padhrag               150                              2        Conmieiined        04-03-93
Sanbu                30                              3        New S/S      Satwoa                 70             1 x 10           3        Not ecompled                    W Xaitng the ompletion of T/L
Retp  Deogklok       30             1 x 10           I        Now StS      Rpa Demek              70             1 x 10           2        Not completd                    WL be ometed at tde and of '94
(New SIS
Sukaindl             70               -              1-                    Submzdi                70               -              2        Ndt c7tompled                   Will be caupited at th end of '94
Banar               150               -              2            -        Banpr                 150               -              -                                        Tranefared to Tuikn.aly
PoWr line
Carier (PLC)                                           -       Cemm    t;ed       09-10-91     Edeil- (KfW)
Clemir                 70            1 x 10            1       Commissioned       01-27-94     Rel   from Sunmng
Ba.r                   70            I x 10            I       Not completed                   Relocated from KiaCak. wil be compltted
st the cad of 1994
Clewi                  70            1 x 10            2       Cemmissioned       05-13-94
Lenbur Situ            70            1 x 10           4        CommWimed          07-07-94
Jdabti,ebkbe
Cil&U               150            2 x30             5        New S/S      Cir4g                 150             2 x 60           7        Cemmioned          07-05-92     New S/S
Cilengp              70             1 x 30           4        New S/S      CilUn1i                70             1 x 30           3        Commisioned        04-15-93     New S/S
M    mlmg           150                              2            -        Muemlowing            150               -              2        Comminsied         08-27-92     New S/S
COOu"               150            2 x 60            7        No S/S       Clipa                 150             2 x 60           7        Comminied          07-17-93     New S/S
MI 1                150            2 x 60            7        New S/S      Mamnuad               150             2 x 60           6        Commieined         06-29-93     New  StS
aOmbir/Budi         150            2 x 60            5        New StS      Gambir/Budi
Kenuliam                                                                    Keomulm              150            2 x 60           6        Commiioed          06-17-92     New SIS
Cibog                30               -              2            -        Cibineog                                -              2
Kalbng Sap          150            2 x 60            6        New SIS       KmAng Sopi           150             1 x60            4        Commissioned       01-13-93     New S/S
C-Ang               150               -              2            -        Casn                  150             1 x60            2        Cominiamed         09-16-92     New StS
Behi Budi           150            2 x60             3        New StS    5stiBudi                150             2 x60            6        Comisioed          09-16-92     New St/
Poidok Kep          150            2 x 60            7        New S/S      Pok Kepa              150             2 x 60           10       Comm sine          01-29-93     Ne w S SIB
Duri KIfmbi           150            1 x60            2        Commisimed         09-16-92     New S/S B 
Ujug Benei            150            1x 60            2        Not ompetd                      Will be oompkdd d te end dof4 94
Balas Ikdeah          150            3 x 60           10       Commieioned        01-13-93                                                      L    <
Fapr                  150            1 x 30           3        Commisined         03-31-90
5erq)-               150             1 x60            2        Commissioned       06-12-92
Andbi Mm              150            1 x30            3        Commissined        06-27-91



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLEI1ON REPORT
COMPARISON OF COST FOR TRANSMSSION LINES & SUBSTATIONS
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate           Actual (or PCR Estimate
No.                      Item
LNocal    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
1.  Transmission Lines                              14.30      18.30     32.60      11.96/b    14.82     26.78
2.  Transformers                                    12.10      15.20      27.30      0.60      15.51      16.11
3.  MV & LV Materials                                5.70      12.20      17.90      0.51      19.28      19.79
4.  Substations:
1. Conventional                                31.40      25.50      56.90      8.19&    42.50      50.69
2. GIS                                          8.20      16.90      25.10       7.69      38.05     45.74
5.  150 kV U/G Cables                                6.90      62.20      69.10      6.90      65.23      72.13
6.  Land Acquisition                                19.90       -         19.90     51.53        -        51.53
Total                       98.50     150.30    248.80      87.38     195.39    282.77La
/a Excludes US$43.0 million overhead costs and US$2.7 million engineering services.
L Final cost of transmission lines and substations in West Java is estimated.



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ACTUAL COST FOR TRANSMISSION LINES & SUBSTATIONS
(US$ million)
West Java        Central Java         East Java           Subtotal
No.          Itern         Local   Foreig   Local   Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign    Total
n
1.  Transmission lines   10.47La     8.10     1.06      5.57      0.43      1.15    11.96      14.82    26.78
2.  Transformers          0.40      10.30      -        4.56      0.20      0.65     0.60      15.51     16.11
3.   MV & LV Materials    0.50       7.02     -        10.80      0.01      1.46     0.51      19.28     19.79
4.   Substations:
1. Conventional      3.4L0    12.40     3.58     28.12      1.21      1.98     8.19      42.50     50.69
2. GIS               5.95      30.76      -         -        1.74      7.29     7.69      38.05     45.74
5.   150 kV U/G Cables    5.55      48.95     -          -        1.35     16.28     6.90      65.23     72.13
6.   Land Acquisition    50.42        -       0.73       -        0.38       -      51.53       0.00     51.53
Total        76.69     117.53     5.37     49.05      5.32     28.81    87.38     195.39   282.77
Note: Excludes US$43.0 million overhead costs and US$2.7 million engineering services.
La Estimated costs.



-36-                            ANNEX3
Table 3
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN 2778-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COWInAJSON OF CosT FOR DIsTRiBuToN CoMPoNENT
Appraisal estimate               Actual
Item
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total
MV overhead lines      0.6       1.5     2.1       1.1       2.3       3.4
MV cables              6.0      24.8    30.8       5.5      24.1      29.6
LV overhead lines      5.3      14.7    20.0       5.9      11.6      17.5
Substations
(a) Pole mounted       0.5       0.9     1.4       1.7       0.3       1.0
(b) Others             7.1      14.3    21.4       8.2      13.4      22.6
Service entrance       1.9      10.1    12.0       3.9       1.7       5.6
Total Cost       21.4      66.3    87.7      26.3      53.4      79.7



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2778-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CALCULATION OF THE INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RKrutN
Pucl           O&M                               Consumer
Investments         Reval-                      Incre-           cost            cost      ncremental    Consumer  contri-
Gene-                       uation   Constant Produc-  mental    Fuel  const.  O&M    const.   r -Fuel    W      contri-   bution    Toul
ration    T & D    Total    index    price    tion   production  Cost  price    Cost   price    Cost    Cost    bution  const.price  Cost
USD million)-               US15 million (GWh)  (GWh)                                    (USD million)
1978/79    0.4                 0.4   2.795       1.1                                                                                            1.1
1979/80    14.7               14.7   2.341      34.4                                                                                           34.4
1980/81   131.0              131.0   2.021     264.7                                                                                          264.6
1981/82   185.2              185.2   1.852     342.6                                                                                          342.6
1982/83   372.0              372.0   1.768     654.7                                                                                          654.7
1983/84   451.2              451.2   1.684     758.0                                                                                          758.0
1984/85   540.5              540.5   1.622     821.6                                                                                          821.6
1985/86   521.8              521.8   1.559     808.8                                                                                          808.8
1986/87   410.1    312.4    722.6   1.408   1,011.5  15.321              323.7   455.8   124.8   175.8                                       1,011.5
1987/88   417.2    380.4    797.6   1.292   1,028.9  17,791   2,470      363.2   368.5   130.2   168.2  12.7       (7.6)   (34.1)   (44.3)   989.7
1988/89   141.2    367.0    508.2   1.220      619.9  20,353   5,032     387.3   472.3   139.6   170.3  16.5       (5.5)   (41.6)    (50.8)   580.3
1989/90   166.1    306.7    472.8   1.188      557.9  23,545   8,224     396.3   467.6   168.7   199.0  11.8       23.2    (44.6)    (53.5)   539.4
1990/91    74.3    249.7    324.1   1.123      362.9  28,047  12,726     538.1   602.7   197.4   221.0 146.9       45.2    (52.0)    (58.2)   496.7
1991/92   397.9    269.7    667.7   1.074      714.3  31,306  15,985     622.4   666.0   278.5   298.0 210.2      122.2    (16.6)    (17.8)  1,029.0
1992/93   904.0    738.7   1,642.7   1.026   1,675.6  33,900  18,579     695.8   709.7   317.6   323.9 253.9      148.1    (62.2)    (63.9)  2,013.7
1993/94   996.0    509.0   1,505.0   1.000   1,505.0  37,944  22,623     765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5   (147.2)   (147.2)  2,003.8
1994/95                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
1995/96                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
1996/97                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
1997/98                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
1998/99                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
1999/00                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2000/01                               1.000            37,994  22,623     765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2001/02                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2002/03                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2003/04                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2004/05                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2005/06                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2006/07                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2007/08                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2008/09                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2009/10                              1.000            37,994  22,623     765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2010/11                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2011/12                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2012/13                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0
2013/14                               1.000            37,994  22,623    765.3   765.3   512.3   512.3 309.5      336.5                       646.0         -



INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISMBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2778-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CALCULATION OF   E INTRNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Sales ICm                                                Sales                 Rveve at   eCOnoC benefit
Rea-     Com-n-    Ireu  ntta-  Cos -venum                  Reui-   Non-Resi  Total
dential   mercial   trial     Publc    Total      dential   mercial    trial    Public    Total      tsrftr    del    dential  BeDefit
GWh                                               GWh                                      USD mllion
1978/79
1979/80
1980/81
1981/82
1982/83
1983/84
1984/85
1985/86
1986/87  4,171.1    994.6  5,162.2   1,248.6  11,576.8
1987/88  4,717.1   1,161.0  6,163.7   1,356.0  13,397.7     546.0     166.4    1,001.0   107.4   1,820.9      129.9     38.2      51.0   219.1
1988/89  5,494.3   1,391.0  7,587.8   1,476.6  15,949.7    1,323.3    396.4    2,425.2   228.0   4,372.9     311.8      92.6      122.0   526.4
1989/90  5,998.7  1,595.3  9,582.8   1,582.9  18,759.6    1,827.6     600.7    4,420.2   334.4   7,182.8     512.2      127.9     214.2   854.3
1990/91  6,795.3   1,872.7  12,040.1   1,693.8  22,401.8    2,624.2   878.1    6,877.5   445.2  10,825.0     771.9      183.7     328.1  1,283.6           00
1991/92  7,779.2  2,287.4  13,780.3   1,719.5  25,566.5    3,608.2   1,292.8    8,617.7   470.9  13,989.7    997.5      252.6     415.3  1,665.3
1992/93  8,790.1   2,538.9  15,318.0   1,742.4  28 389.4    4,619.0   1,544.3   10,155.4   493.9  16,812.5   1,198.8    323.3     487.8  2,009.8
1993/94  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5 776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
1994/95  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
1995/96  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7    404.4      578.6  2,426.3
1996/97  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
1997/98  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
1998/99  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
1999/00  9,947.7  3,036.2  17 050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7    404.4      578.6  2,426.3
2000/01  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2001/02  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2002/03  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2003/04  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2004/05  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2005/06  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7    404.4      578.6  2 426.3
2006/07  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2007/08  9 947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2008/09  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5 776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2009/10  9,947.7  3,036.2  17 050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2010/11  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2011/12  9,947.7  3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7     404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2012/13  9,947.7   3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7    404.4     578.6  2,426.3
2013/14  9,947.7   3,036.2  17,050.8   1,784.0  31,818.7    5,776.6   2,041.6   11,888.2   535.5  20,241.9   1,443.7    404.4     578.6  2,426.3
N
Note: 1. Average tariff in 1993/94 Rp 150.56- USC7.13 per kWh.                                                                       EERR 12.33%
2. AdditionAl Economic Benefit calculated s folows:
Residential average tariff in 1993/94 Rp 146.8 - USC6.95 per kWh
Additional economnic benefft US6.95 per kWh
Indudril average tariff in 1993/94 Rp 133.3 -  SC6.3 per kWh.
Additional economic benefit USC3.46 per kWh



-39-                                                 ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
Power Transmission and Distribution Proiect
(LOAN 2778-IND)
Proiect Comgletion Report
PLN - Summary of Key Financial Indicators
1987181         1988/89         1989/90         1990/91          1991/92         1992/93
Fisal Year                                  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actal  Appr. Attual  Appr. Actal  Appr. Actud   Appr. ActUl
Op.ratig ratio (U)
PLN Tohl                                  101     101      84    100       SO      sO       73      90      74      84      75      86
JAVA                                       91      BS      77      87      73      68       65      78      67      72      68      71
Outside-JAVA                              140     143     110    143      108     127      100     136      97     130      99    144
Ract of rctm an ent revalued
fixed assets in operation (U)
PLN Totl                                 -0.4     0.2     4.9    0.0      5.4     6.3      7.5     3.0    6.1      5.7     6.1    4.9
JAVA                                      3.6    4.1      8.0    3.8      8.0    10.6    10.6      7.5     9.6    11.7    8.8   12.0
OLtside-JAVA                              (8.9)  (11.5)   (2.4)   (9.9)   (I.8)   (5.3)    0.0    (8.3)    0.7    (7.6)    0.2  (10.6)
k1rf-fincing ntio as U
of cepital expenditure:
Annual                                   12.60    6.90   19.14   15.20   18.59   32.30   24.79   30.70   29.25   21.50   31.94   10.90
3-ycarmovingavecagc/a                    15.S2   13.14   16.32   14.37   16.98   48.83   21.12   25.50   24.62  126.73   28.83   17.70
Dcbt s % of debt plu equity /b                51      41      54      39      56      36       56      34      56      30      55      36
Debt service covengc ratio (times) Ic         1.6    1.1    2.1       1.3     1.7     2.0     2.0     1.8     2.2     2.9      2.4    2.6
Cuwrnt ntio (timcs)                          2.0      1.1     1.6    0.9     1.6      1.4     1.7     1.4     1.7     1.3      1.S     1.3
/a Current plus two preceeding years.
lb Includes consumers' contributions.
/c Excludes consumers' contributions.



ANNEX 5
-40-                                                  Table 2
INDONESIA
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(LOAN 2778-IND)
Project ComDletion Report
PLN- Indonesia ODerations
Income Statements
(Rp billion)
1987188        1988/89          1989/90         1990/91          1991192         1992/93
Fiscal Year                                Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr.  Actual  Appr.  Actual  Appr.  Actual  Appr. Actual
Encrgy Sales (GWb)                        16.967  17.077  19.430  20,027  21,9S3  23,435  24,656  27,741  27,560  31,481  30.762  34,965
Sales increase (%)                          15.47   15.49   14.52   17.27   13.14   17.02   12.16   18.37   11.78   13.48   19.52   11.10
Aveage revenue (Rp/kWh)                    95.44   92.60  118.80   91.87  126.92  114.10  139.26  113.16  139.26  129.05  139.26  137.12
Average revenue increase (%)                (0.41)  (0.92)  24.48   (0.79)   6.84   24.20    9.72   (0.82)   0.00   14.04    0.00    6.25
Operating Revenues
Energy revenue                            1,619   1,581   2,308   1,840   2,790   2,674   3.434   3,139   3,840   4,063   4,287   4,794
Other operating revenue                      54      48      64      59      73      83      84       95      95     115    109      123
Total Opcrating Revenues                 1.673   1,629   2,372   1,999  2,863   2.757   3,518   3,234   3,935   4,178  4.396   4.917
Operting Expenses
Fel and lubricating oil                     937     870   1,016    994   1.110   1.069   1.191   1,531   1,342   1,S29   1,512   2.132
Power purchased                              IS      11      15      12      15      16      15       21      15      22      15      20
Personnel expense                           141    149    150    171        159     212      16S     279     178     308     189    427
Repeir/maintenance                          109    115    ISO       133     214     166     271      232     324     340    395    499
Depreciation                                445    438    618    515        750     640     865      745     9S0     855   1,121     967
Otherexpenses                                48      56      50      71      53      91      58      112      60     162      64    202
Total Operating Expenses                 1,695   1639   1 999   1,896   2,301   2,194   2,568   2.920   2S99   3,516   3,296   4247
Operating Income                           (22)   (10)   373         3    562      563     950     314   1.036      662   1,100    670
Nonoperating income                            9      26      12      32      15      56       20     106      26      154     34    202
Nonopersting expense                          IS      34      IS      31      IS      189      18     128      18      129      IS    173
Other Income (Net)                          (9)     t           (           DI   (133)       2      (22       8      25      16      29
Nct Income Beforc Interest                 (31    (18)   367         4    559      430     952     292   1.044      687   1,116    699
Interct Charged to Operation                137    lS    236       137    377      230     422      293    407      370    415    391
Net Income /a                             (e68)  (136)   131   (133)    182        200     530       M1   637       317    701      308
/a Before taxes.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
-41-
Power Transmission and Distribution Proiect
(LOAN 2778-IND)
Project Completion Regort
PLN- Java Ogerations
Income Statements
(Rp billion)
19S7/88        1988/89         1989/90         1990/91        1991/92         1992193
Fiscal Year                           Appr. Actul  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual
Nner' Sales (OWh)                     13,477  13,393  15,438  15,692  17,421  18,467  19,450  22.043  21,619  25,078  24.029  27,837
Sales increase (%)                     15.57   15.73   14.55   17.12   12.84   17.68   11.65   19.36   11.15   13.77   11.15   11.00
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)              93.80   90.99  116.75   90.45  124.73  112.10  136.83  111.24  136.83  127.60  136.83  135.74
Average revenue increase (%)           (0.40)  (0.76)  24.47   (0.59)   6.84   23.94    9.70   (0.77)   0.00   14.71    0.00    6.38
Operting Revenues
Energy revenue                       1,264   1,219   1,802   1.420   2,173   2.072   2,661   2.452   2,958   3,200   3,288  3,779
Other openting revenue                  43      37     51      44      58      63      67      72      75      85      85     93
Total Operstinx Revenues            1,307   1,256   1,S53   1,464   2,231   2,135   2,728   2,524   3.033   3,285   3,373   3,S72
Operating Experns
Fuel and lubricating oil               680    595    752    687    S10    715         890   1.072   1.000   1,301   1,120   1,476
Power purchased                         II      10      11     11      11      15      11      21      11      22      11     19
Personnel expense                       81      92     86    107       91     132      96    172    102    189    108    237
Repair/maintenance                      74      73    114      88    144      102    163    139    200    208    234    263
Depreciation                           297    299    422    349    520    435    569    509    665    558    758    618
Other expenses                          40      33     41      32      45      45      49      49      50      73      53    126
Total Opertine Expenser            I.3   1,102   1,426   1,274   1621   1,444   1.77S   1.962   2,028  2.351  2,2S4   2,739
Operstint Income                      124    154    427      190    610    691       950    562   1.005    934   1.089   1,133
Nonoperating income                       7       7       9      31      12      38     16      25      20      96      27    117
Nonoperating expense                     14      26      14      25      14    128      14      42      14      S0      14      89
Other Income (Net)                     m      (19)      ,      6      Q      (90)      2     (17)      6      16     13      28
Net Income Before Interest            117    135    422      196    608    601       952    545   1.011      950  .1,102   1,161
Interest Charged to Operation           109      98    187    117    299        176    333    243    319    283    324    285
Net Income /a                           S     37    235       79    309    425       619    302    692    667    778    876
/a Before tUxes.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
-42-
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(LOANS 2T78-IND)
Project Completion Report
PLN- Outside Java Operation
Income Statements
(Rp billion)
19S7188         1988/S9         1989/90         1990/91          1991/92         199V93
Fiscal Year                             Appr. Actual  Appr.  Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual
Energy Sales (aWh)                      3,490   3,679   3.992   4,335   4,562   4,96S   5,206   5,698   5,941   6,403   6.733   7,12S
Sales increase (%)                      15.07   14.65   14.38   17.83   14.28   14.60   14.12   14.69   14.12   12.37   13.33   11.32
Average revenue (Rp/kWb)               101.80   98.47  126.73   97.01  135.28  121.26  148.48  120.61  148.48  134.62  148.48  142.53
Average reVenue increase (%)            (0.37)  (1.39)  24.49   (1.48)   6.75   25.00    9.76   (0.54)   0.00   11.62    0.00    5.88
Operating Revenuers
Energy revenue                          355     362      506    420      617    602      773     687     882      863     999   1,015
Otheroperatingrevenue                     11      11      13      15      15      20      17      23      20       30      24      30
Total Operatine Revenues               366     373     519    435      632      622    790    710       902     893   1.023   1.045
Operating Expenses
Fuel and lubricating oil                257     275      264     307     300     354     301     459     342     528      392     656
Power purchased                           4        1       4       1       4       1       4       0       4       0        4       1
Personnel expenae                        60       57      64      64      68      S0      72     107      76      119      81     190
Repair/maintenance                       35      42       36      45      70      64     108      93     124      132     161     236
Depreciation                            148      139     196     166    230    205       296     236     315     297    363    349
Otberexpeners                              8      23       9      39       8      46       9      63      10       89      11      76
Total Operating Expenses               512     537    573      622      680    750      790    958      871   1 165   1,012   1,50S
OperstinE Income                      (146)   (164)    (54)   (IS7      (48)   (128)      2    (248)     31    (2)        11   (463)
Nonoperating income                         2      19       3       1       3      IS       4       S1       6      58       7      a5
Nonoperating expense                        4       8       4       6       4      61       4       86       4      49       4      84
Other Lncome (Nct)                      (2)     11       ()          (5)  1     (431      0        2              2 9      3 
Nct Income Before Interest            (148)   (153)    (55)   (192)    (49)   (171)       2    (253)     33    (263)      14   (462)
Interest Clurged to Operation             28       20      49      20      78      54      89      50       88      87      91     106
Net Incomce /s                        (176)   (173)   (104)   (212)   (12n   (225)    (89)   (303)    (55)    350)    z         (568)
/a Before taxes.



ANNEX 5
-43-                                             Table 5
INDONESIA
Power Transmission and Distribution Proiect
(LOAN 2778-IND)
Proiect ComDletion ReDort
PLN - Funds Flow Statements
(Rp billion)
19S7/1S         191819         19S9/90          1990191          1991/92         1992/93
Fiscel Year                                Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Acnal  Appr.  Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr.  Actual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Interal Sources
Net incoMe before interet                (31)   (18)   367         4    559    430       952      292   1,044     637   1,116    699
Depreciation                             445    431      61t    515    750       640     S65     745      980     155   1.121     967
Conswners' contributions                 111      67     120      77     116      89     127      111     131      42     156     152
Othcr                                     31      48      45      53      54     107      65      165      78      54      94      12
Total Internal Sources                     563     535   1,150    649   1.479   1.266   2,009   1,313   2,240   1,638   2,487   1900
Dcbt Service
Debt repyment                              127    269    225    253    393        279      491     299     509    290    521        323
Intereat charged to
operations                               137     118    236      137    377    230        422     293    407    370    415        391
Total Debt Service                       264    337    461       390    770      509      913     592     916     660    936    714
Contribuion to DCWFd /a                       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       1       0      12
Contribution to DPS /b                        0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       7       0       7
Nct Internal Sourcea                     299     148    619    259    709    757   1.096           M    1,324     97t  1.551   IJt6
Total Borrowings                          2,137    932   1.939    714   2,231       447   2.404     469   2,334      693   2,387   3.367
Governmeot equity                           500    860      640    962    684       646     732     799      786   2,274    *44   2,730
TOTAL SOURCES                          2 936   1,9     3 26t  1,935   3.624   1,t5    4,22   1 ,9S9   4444   3,94    4.7t   7,2t
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital ExDenditure
Contruction expenditum                   2,574   1,130   2.796   1.40   3,108   1,502   3,600   1.774   3.891   3.721   4.199   6,768
Interet during construction               244       96    302      136    341       58     479      56    475        61    479       76
Total Capital
Expenditure                           2 t12  11926   3,098   1,976   3,449   1,560   4,079   1.t30   4,366   3 72  4,678   6,t44
Canges in working capital, and Other       lt       15    170    (41)   175    201         153     158       78    282    104    504
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                     2,936   1,941   3,268   1.935   3,624   1 761   4.232   1,988   4.444   4. 064   4 72
/a DCWEB: Devclopment of Coopertives and Weak Economic Businesa.
lb DPS: Overal Development Fund.



ANNEX 5
-44-                                      Table 6
INDONESIA
Power Transmission and Distribution Proiect
(LOAN 2778-IND)
Project Completion Report
PLN - Balance Sheets
(Rp billion)
1987/1S        19SSIS9         19S9190          1990/91         1991192        1992193
Fieal Year                                Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                        9,085   8,779  12,993  11,846  16,429  14,550  19,613  16.832  23.940  19,124  28,201  23,917
Leas: Accuim. Depreciation              2,135   2,179   2.S00   2,826   3,599   3,570   4.527   4,516   5,666   5.560   6,985   6,794
Operating plant                        6,950   6 600  10,193   9.020  12,830  10,9S0  15,086  12.316  IS.274  13,564 21,216  17,123
Workinprogress                          4.255   4.112   3,73S   3,806   4,04.4  3,116   5,297   3,670   6,209   6.057   7,681   9,395
Total Fixed Assets                    11,2    1 2  13.931  1226  16.74  14.096  203    15.9S6  24.483   9,6    2,97 
Current Assets
Cash and bank                             298    239    372    295    478        595      547    705    578       804    625    916
AccoLmu  receivable                       222    204    316    231       382     293    470       326    526    412    587    477
Inventories                               ISS    210    220    244       257     292      298     332    342    409    401       563
Othercuerntaases                           96      86    105      9S     116      122     127     187    140    257       154    273
Total Current Assets                    804    739   1,013    86    1233   1302   1442   1550   1,56   1882   1, 767   2.229
Other Aaseta                                20    143       20    IS0       20      99      20     117      20     152      20    611
TOTAL ASSETS                          12,029  It.594  149    13,S74  IS,127  1S.49789 45  1655  30.64  2935
EQUITY AND LIABILITMES
Paid-in capitAl                         3.989   4,282   4.629   5,245   5,313   5.890   6,045   6,690   6,831   8.964   7,675  11,694
Retained eraings                         (484)  (2S8)   (353)  (421)   (171)   (217)    359    (217)   997         30   1,698   (207)
Revaluation surplus                     2,332   2,912   2,579   3.563   2,823   3,886   3,118   4,692   3,831   5,391   4,6t8   6,394
Total Equity                           5,S37   6.906   6,855   8,3S    7,965   9.559   9,522  11,165  it.659  14,3SS  14,061  17.SSI
Long-term debt (LTD)                      4,S66   3,458   6,581   4.044   8,419   3,995  10,333   4,164  12,158   4,567  14,023   7.609
less: Current portion                      225    318    393    563    491        329      509    329    521       402    522    448
Net long-term debt                      4.641   3.140   61S    3,481 7,92S   3.666   9,S24   3 835  11.637   4165  13 501  7,161
Current Liabilities
Current portion of LTD                     225    318    393    563    491         329     509    329    521       402    522    448
Accounut Payable                           157    316    ISS    404    226    404          271    494      326    659    391    681
Other curmnt liabilities                    31      61      37     56      45      292      54     309      64    436       78    594
Total Current Liabilities                413    695    618    023    762   1.025          834   1,132    911   1497    991   1,723
Consuners' contributions                   912    606   1,032    683   1.148       772   1,275     883   1,413     924   1,569   1,076
Other liabilities /a                       226    247    271    300    324    475          390     638    469    684    562   1,517
TOTAL EOUITY & LIABILITIES               I2 11594  14.964  1374  I 7  15.497  21,S45  17,653  26.089  21 655  30.684  29.35S
/n Including consumers' deposits.












u-i
r-
U .
-H ~ ~ -"
cC~~~~C,'
Z rJ
tlE
h:_E



