DumeNnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
aL/tf.               -J;c.
Report No. P-4427-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt226.O MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
December 18, 1986
- -           Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
(As of September 1986)
US$1               a  Rp 1,650
Rp 100             =  US$0.06061
Rp 1 milLion       =  US$606.06
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA AND PLN
FISCAL YEAR (BY)
April I-March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton                  =   1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)                   =   0.0063 barrels (bbl)
1 kilometer (km)              =   0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)               =   1,000 volts (v)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)       =   1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)               =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)              1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN     -       National Energy Board
BAPPENAS    -       National Development Planning Board
DCEP        -       Directorate-General of Electric Power, Hinistry of Mines
and Energy
JABOTABEK   -       Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi area
LNG         -       Liquified Natural Gas
LPG         -       Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC        -       Long-Run Marginal Cost
MME         -       Ministry of Mines and Energy
PERTAMINA   -       National Oil and Gas Company
PLN         -       National Electricity Authority
ROR         -       Financial Rate of Return
SFR         -       Self-Financing Ratio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:         National Electricity Authority (PLN)
Amount:              $226.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the Govern-
ment of Indonesia (GOI) to PLN for 20 years including a
grace period of 5 years; the onlending rate would be equal
to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus no less
than a quarter percent for administration charges. The
Government vould bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would support government objectives
to promote productive activities and to improve the wel-
fare of the population through the provision of electric
power, and also to improve the economic and technical
efficiency of energy supply and use. In particular, the
proposed project would: (a) expand transmission and sub-
station facilities in Java to efficiently utilize the
planned addition to generating capacity during the period
from 1986187 to 1990/91; (b) extend distribution
facilities in the Jakarta, Tangerang, Bogor and Bekasi
areas to supply electricity to industries, commercial
consumers and about 250,000 new residential consumers in
urban and rural areas; (c) expand PLN's center for testing
and certifying indigenous products and for researching
utility-oriented problems; and (d) provide consulting
services to (i) assist PLN's Engineering Services Center;
(ii) continue the detailed engineering of a coal fired
thermal power plant at Paiton in East Java; and
(iii) define and implement measures to improve PLN's
operating efficiency.
Risks:               The principal risk relates to possible delays in imple-
menting the transmission and substations component of the
project because of difficulties in land acquisition.
Advance action has been initiated by PLN to help prevent
such delays.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                       Local    Foreign   Total
…(US; million) ----
Transmission lines
and substations                    74.6       128.6      203.2
Distribution                         17.5        62.1       79.6
Testing and Research Center            1.0        5.0        6.0
Consulting Services for:
Paiton                              1.0         4.0        5.0
Engineering Services Center         2.0         8.0       10.0
Efficiency improvement              1.0         2.0        3.0
Total Base Cost                  97.1       209.7      306.8
Physical contingencies                7.4        16.2       23.6
Price contingencies                  21.5        14.3       35.8
Total Project Cost /a           126.0       240.2      366.2
Interest during construction           -         20.0       20.0
Total Financing Required        126.0       260.2      386.2
Financing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign   Total
Federal Republic of Germany            -        14.2       14.2
IERD                                   -       226.0      226.0
COI/PLN                             126.0       20.0      146.0
Total                           126.0      260.2      386.2
Estimated Disbursements:         Bank FY   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual                 11.0   60.0    75.0    64.0    16.0
Cumulative             11.0   71.0   146.0   210.0   226.0
Economic
Rate of Return:      17Z for PLN's investment program for Java for the period
1987 to 1991.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5491-IND dated December 17, 1986
Maps: IBRD 12453R6
IBRD 17207R2
/a   Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$9.7 million equivalent, and
the total project cost, net of tazes, is US$356.5 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$226.0 million to help
finance the Power Transmission and Distribution Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Indonesia:  Adjusting to Lower Oil
Revenues" (No. 6201-IND, dated May 20, 1986) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 27, 1986. Annex I gives selected economic data for the
country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about 2 mil-
lion km . It has a population of over 158 million, growing at about 2.11
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a diver-
sified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, significant
mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agricul-
tural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the less populated islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan,
while two thirds of the population lives on Java, which has areas with some of
the highest rural population densities in the world. About a quarter of the
population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban population
growth is about 4% p.a. The 1984 estimate of GNP per capita is UJ2540, which
places Indonesia at the lower end of the middle-income countries.-
Macroeconomic DeveLopments and Resource Management
4.        During the 19709, the Indonesian economy grew at almost 8% p.a.
This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures, total
investment and savings. Following the turbulence of the mid-1960s, the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic
stability, liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide
incentives for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant
external influence was the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net earnings from oil and LNG exports
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
1/   On the basis of the WorLd Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil and LNG also prb-
vided about 602 of budget revenues by 1980/81 and helped finance a sustained
increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures helped foster diversified
growth. Of particular note has been the support for agriculture through
investment in infrastructure and support services. This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. and led to the recent achievement
of self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate
during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low base
and predominantly oriented towards the protected domestic market.
5.        Over the past five years, the economy has been buffeted by unfavor-
able external developments, especially for oil.  Accordingly, the external
terms of trade deteriorated by more than 15% from 1981/82 to 1985/86. In
response, the Government acted decisively to stabilize the economy and provide
a basis for longer-term structural adjustment. Related measures included:
(a) restraints on public investment and reductions in budget subsidies;
(b) maintenance of a flexible exchange rate policy (following a major devaLua-
tion in March 1983); (c) wide-ranging structural reforms in the taxation and
financial systems; and (d) a major reorganization of customs, ports and
shipping operations. These measures had a positive impact on the balance of
payments, with the current account deficit reduced from US$7.2 billion (8.5%
of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.7 billion (2.2% of CNP) in 1985/86.
Domestic inflation was also reduced to less than 5% in 1985. However, this
stabilization process has involved a heavy cost in terms of lower investment
and growth. Since 1981, GDP growth has averaged only 2.6% p.a.; adjusting for
population growth and the terms of trade loss, per capita incomes have
fallen. The industrial sector has been particularly hard hit, with low rates
of capacity utilization and emerging financial problems in many enterprises.
6.        The economic outlook for Indonesia is dominated by the recent
collapse and uncertain prospects for world oil markets. Preliminary indica-
tors are that Indonesia's net oil/LNG export earnings could fall by more than
60% during 1986/87. Because of the cautious management strategy adopted by
the Government in recent years, Indonesia is better placed than most oil
exporters to cushion the short-term impact of lower oil revenues. External
reserves stand at over US$10 billion (equivalent to nine months of imports)
and another US$2 billion is available in undrawn commercial credits. However,
the Government is still legitimately concerned about the impact of a prolonged
shortfall in oil revenues. Despite tight controls over public external
borrowing in recent years, the debt service ratio had reached 25% by 1985 and
will rise further (even without new borrowing) over the next few years. The
scope, therefore, for additional borrowing to cover the resource gap is
limited. Instead, the Government has opted for further measures, to restrain
aggregate demand and promote structural change in the economy. Already, an
austerity budget has been announced for 1986/87, with total expenditure
budgeted to decline by 9% (24% for development expenditure). By itself, the
austere budget for 1986/87 would not have been sufficient to bring the current
account deficit down to manageable levels, nor to promote the necessary
structural adjustment in the economy. Therefore, faced with the prospect of
lower oil prices over the medium term, the Covernment decided to devalue the
Rupiah by 31% (IMF method) on September 12. This adjustment is considered
appropriate in light of the projected loss of oil revenues and helped to pre-



- 3 -
empt speculative capital outflows. With continued prudence and some recovery
in oil prices, the current account deficit could be brought back to less than
3X of GNP over the next three years. However, economic performance would
remain highly constrained, with CDP growth close to 2% p.a. and declining per
capita incomes.
Policies for Growth and Adjustment
7.        Indonesia's ability to achieve its goals of sustainable growth with
equity will depend crucially on the skill with which it manages the transition
from oil dependency toward a more diversified, semi-industrial economy. Some
of the elements of this strategy, including structural reforms in the taxation
and financial systems, are already in place. The recent devaluation will also
help to improve Indonesia's competitiveness and promote non-oil export
development. However, successful adjustment will require continued action in
three key policy areas: management of the public investment program (and
improvements in the regulatory/policy environment for private investment),
rationalization of the external trade regime and development of the financial
sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards regional
development and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the
import content of investment while still meeting the Covernment's equity and
employment objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are estab-
lished to facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multiyear expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection proce-
dures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project implemen-
tation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly.  Given the
budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be called
upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation.  To encou-
rage this process, the Government recently announced simplifications in
investment approval procedures and a major internal reorganization of the
Investment Coordinating Board. These measures were followed, in May 1986, by
a package of regulatory refDrms to make Indonesia more attractive to foreign
investors.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies.  In this context, the Government has introduced two
important policy reforms in 1986, aimed at reducing trade-related
distortions. The first package of trade ref' ;is, designed to provide interna-
tionally priced inputs to exporters, was announced on May 6.  Under the



- 4 -
scheme, "producer exporters" were given the option of importing their inputs
free from licensing restrictions and exempt from import duties. Preliminary
results suggest that the scheme is being implemented efficiently and is highly
effective in supporting exporters. The second package of trade reforms,
designed to reduce import restrictions, improve industrial efficiency and
promote non-oil exports, was announced on October 25. As a result of the
October 25 measures, import license restrictions have been removed on 166
items and relaxed on 105 items for actual users and licensed agents.
Together, these items account for 27% of all items and 44Z of total import
value previously restricted to approved importers. Although agricultural
products and some important manufactured goods (e.g., steel, textiles and
plastics) are excluded, the reform signals the Government's intention to shift
to tariffs as the primary instrument of import policy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobiLizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
inciaased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed among its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.



12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40X; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81 associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural nonagricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market could lead to
stagnant or declining labor income, especially in rural areas and the urban
informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
nonfarm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the subdistrict level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness.  This will have to be



-6 -
complemented by a major expansion in water suppLy and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970u is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 182 of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital FLows
15.       The ongoing program of economic reforms should help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term, despite
the impact of lower oil revenues. Even so, continued resource transfers from
abroad wiLl be cssential to sustain modest GDP growth (2% p.a.) over the next
three years. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(lLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.8 billion p.a. from 1986/87 to
1988/89, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development assis-
tance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the Government's record of economic management is good and a comfort-
able cushion of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past three years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1985 is estimated at
US$28 billion, with an additional US$15 billion of undisbursed commitments.
Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (including
nonconcessional multilateral aid) accounts for 48% and obligations at variable
interest rates for only 21%; there is no short-term public debt. The average
maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1985 is estimated at 16 years. The
Covernment continues to manage its external debt quite prudently. Until 1981,
Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service ratio, based on
gross exports, at below 10%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export
receipts over the past three years, the ratio rose to about 20% in 1985. With
the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export earnings,
Indonesiats public debt service ratio would rise to about 31% in 1986 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio would rise from 25% in 1985 to around 37% in 1986 and then
decline again.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.       As of September 30, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$908.10 million (less cancellations) and 113 Bank loans amounting
to US$8,835.19 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's public (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1985
was 14.8%, and the share of debt service, 9.7%, compared with 14.5% and 8.8%,
respectively, in 1984.  From 1968 until 1974, alL lending to Indonesia was
made through IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following
the commodity and oil-price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily an poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigra-



tion) for employment, food security and exports, over one third of Bank Group-
assisted projects have bean in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually alt ocher sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastrtucture and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilLed manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestmenc  studies and project execution.  Repelica III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiaLed, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
tures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its tending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on efficiency improvements in the
infrastructure sectors and on education and human resource development.
Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the Bank is
concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank is focussing
on efficiency improvements in the maricime sector and on improving the
national network of highways and ruraL roads. In urban development and water
supply, lending is being directed toward establishment of appropriate sector
policies and institutional development aimed at strengthening local government



and regional enterprises, in order to minimize demands on the government
budget and decentralize the responsibility for addromuing basic needs. In
all, the Bank'u landing program is intended to contribute about 20% of
Indonesia's capital requirements during the next three years and is expedted
to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Whore possible, we are
seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through technical nssistanco,
am well am complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with
other donors.
20.       Implementation, as rflected by disbursements, hai,been steadily im-
provig over the past three years. The disbursement ratio I has risen from
15% 2' in FY84 to about 18.5% in FY86. Although this is not yot a satisfac-
tory leveL, this improvement reflects the results of efforts which the Govern-
ment and the Bank have been making to address key implementation problem are-
as. These include budgeting and budget release procedures, procurement proce-
dures, managerial capacity, limited capacity in the local consulting and con-
tracting industries and land acquisition. Several special Bank missions have
addressed various aspects of these problems and made recommendations, many of
which have been adopted by the Government. Seminars on procurement and dis-
bursement procedures am welL as others which have addressed more broadly im-
plementation problems of specific sectors have been held, in addition to regu-
lar formal meetings between the Bank and the Government to review implementa-
tion and disbursement performance and project and sector-specific problems.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the Government has acted to
streamline some complex budgetary and financial procedures, improved its
information system, and instituted training programs in procedures and project
management. In addition, a ministerial level committee responsible to the
President has been established to monitor implementation performance, as well
as a ministerial committee on land acquisition. To continue to assist in
alleviating the problems which persist, the Bank has been, and will be in
future, working with the implementation monitoring committee as well as on
specific problem areas agreed with the Government. Activities are already
underway include: developing the consulting and contracting industries,
improving budgeting and financial procedures, simplifying reimbursement
procedures, and strengthening management information systems for procurement
and post-contract implementation monitoring.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
The Energy Sector
Energy Resources
21.       Oil.  Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including
oil, natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Oil and natural gas
2/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.
3/   Excluding the Special Assistance Program (SAP) - related disbursements
which added 2.8%.



-9-
now account for almost all of total commercial energy consumption. While
undiscovered oil reserves are estimated at 10-40 billion barrels, proven
resources are about 9.5 billion barreLs. Production capability is about
1.9 million barrels per day but the current production level is about 1.3 mil-
lion barrels per day, due to OPEC production quotas.
22.       Natural Gas.  The estimated pr3ven remp.ning natural gas reserve as
of January 1984 was about 80 trillion ft  (TTC),-  of which 901 is non-associ-
*       ated and can be developed independently of oil.  However, major reserves are
generally located away from population and industrial centers. The Arun field
in North Sumatra has 14 TCF and Natuma in the South China Sea has 41 TCF.
About 5.0 TCF of reserves are proven in offshore Java of which about 2.6 TCF
are in the East and 2.3 3CF are in the West.   Production of natural gas
reached 1,580 billion ft in 1985. Half of this was exported as liquified
natural gas (LUG) to Japg7 from Arun and Badak. LNC production was about
15 million tons in 1985.-   Gas pipelines have been Laid to domestic steel and
fertiLizer factories and domestic consumption is expected to increase by about
8.01 per year.
23.       Coal.  Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be as high as 20
billion tons, mostly located in West and South Sumatra and Kalimantan. While
production is currently about 530,000 tons per year, the Government has
planned for major increases. Work started early in 1982 on a 3.0 million ton
per year mine at Bukit Asam and on a 0.6 million ton per year mine at the
nearby Muara Tiga coal field. Proven reserves in this area are over 400 mil-
lion tons. The Government is also implementing a program to raise the coal
production at n;fbilin in West Sumatra to 1.3 million tons per year, mainly for
export. In addition, in 1981, the Government entered into a number of produc-
tion-sharing agreements with private foreign and Indonesian joint-venture
companies for the exploration and exploitation of Kalimantan coal reserves.
Coal reserves defined by these contractors and expected to be economically
recoverable, amount to about 1.0 billion tons. The South Sumatra and
Kalimantan coal has a potential for sustaining a large program of coal-fired
power generation in the country.
24.       Hydropower.  Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are large but
development is limited by their geographic distribution relative to demand.
The largest hydroelectric resource potential (over 35% of the total) lies in
Irian Jaya, where the demand is less than one percent of total domestic
demand, while Java, which accounts for 80Z of current consumption, has less
than 10% of the total potential. Existing hydroelectric installations
aggregate to 2,028 MW; they are located in Java (1,235 MW), Sumatra (612 MW),
and Sulawesi (181 NW). Schemes with an aggregate capacity of about 1,000 NW
are currently under construction. The National Electricity Authority (PLN),
assisted by Nippon Koei of Japan, has carried out a systematic countrywide
resource survey, using funds from IBRD Loan 1365-IND, that has produced an
4/   1 TCF of gas = 24.7 million tons of oil equivalent.
5/   1 ton of LNG = 1.2 tons of oil equivalent.



- 10 -
inventory of hydroelectric site,s. The survey is being followed up with
various prefeasibility and feasibility studies of the promising hydroelectric
sites. Prefeasibility studies o;7 21 such hydro schemes were financed under
Loan 1365-IND. In addition, prefeasibility studies for 20 sites and
feasibility studies for 6 sites are being financed under Loan 2300-IND.
25.       Geothermal.  Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are found
on all islands except Kalimantan, but only a few sites have been investigated
and only one, Kamojang in West Java, has been developed. It is believed that
potential reserves may approach 10,000 MW, distributed as follows: Java,
5,500 MW; Sulawesi, 1,400 KW; Sumatra, 1,100 MW; and other islands,
2,000 MW. The Government, in collaboration with the Government of New
Zealand, initiated development of the Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 MW
generating set was commissioned for commercial operation in January 1983 and
the station will be expanded by 110 MW under the Twelfth Power Project (Loan
2214-IND). Further development potential exists in Kamojang. In 1982,
PERTAMINA (The National Oil and Gas Company) entered into a joint operation
contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union Oil of California, for
development of the Salak Field in West Java. A potential of 100-200 MW has
been proven by explorations. Also, PERTAMINA has explored geothermal fields
at Dierng and Drajat in Java. The economic viability of developing these
fields is under study.
Institutions in the Energy Sector
26.       The principal agency responsible for implementing government poLi-
cies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). MME was
established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy sector and to
control the three state enterprises responsible for the carrying out of
government policies in the energy subsectors: PERTAMINA for oil and gas, P.N.
BATUBARA for coal and PLN for electricity. Other ministries and agencies are
also involved in the sector; for example, the Ministry of Public Works is
responsible for hydropower resource surveys, the Ministry of Agriculture
oversees forestry products, and the National Atomic Energy Commission is
responsible for nuclear development. To help facilitate appropriate coordina-
tion of energy policy, the Government has established an interministerial
National Energy Board (BAKOREN) to oversee sectoral development.  BAKOREN is
supported by a technical committee (PTE) consisting of senior officials in
different departments, chaired by the Director General of Electric Power and
New Energy (DCEP).
The Electricity Subsector
27.       The electricity subsector is regulated by ME through the Director
General of Electric Power and New Energy. The subsector comprises: (a) PLN,
the National Electricity Authority; (b) captive plants installed by private
parties for their own use; (c) some small municipal franchises; and (d) a
small number of cooperatives which were set up to provide electricity in
certain rural areas remote from PLN supply systems. An electricity act was
passed in 1985 (Law No. 15), consolidating earlier decrees, which permits
private and cooperative franchise participation in the electricity
subsector. The DCEP is the chairman of the supervisory board which oversees
PLN's operations and reviews PLN's investment plans, budgets and tariffs.



- 11 -
PLN's Organization
28.       PLN was established as a public corporation (Perum) under Presiden-
tial Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the generation, transmis-
sion and distribution of electricity and the planning, construction and opera-
tion of electricity supply facilities. PLN is managed by a board of directors
headed by a President Director, who is appointed by the President and is
accountable to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The President Director has
authority for all day-to-day operations of PLN. The board currently includes
five other directors with functional responsibility, respectively, for
planning, construction, operations, finance and administration. Operational
responsibility devolves to 17 regions, and responsibility for major construc-
tion to 14 project managers. Also reporting to the board are several staff
units responsible for power research, education and training, and management
services as well as an audit unit, called the Corporation Inspectorate, and a
Java system operation and control unit. An engineering services unit was
added in 1985.
PLN's Facilities
29.       PLN is the dominant entity in the electricity subsector.  In
1985/86, it had 5,240 MW of installed generation capacity--1,680 MW of steam
(oil-fired), 800 MW of steam (coal-fired), 930 MW of gas turbines, 740 MW of
diesel, 1,060 MW of hydroelectric and 30 MW of geothermal. PLN also operates
over 11,600 km of transmission lines at 70, 150 and 500 kV and about 86,000 km
of distribution lines.
Sector Development issues, Objectives and Strategy
30.       Since oil has been Indonesia's major export commodity, the major
thrust of the Government's energy policy has been to maintain the level of
export earnings by diversifying domestic consumption away from oil to
alternative and more economic energy resources such as coal, hydropower,
geothermal and gas. The Government's strategy is to use the electricity
sector as the principal agent for implementing this policy. The Government's
other major objectives are to increase the welfare of the population by
increasing the proportion of electrified households from the current low level
of about 14X to about 40Z over the next 10 years, and to support economic
development through the supply of electricity to productive users in urban and
rural areas. Extending the supply of electricity will also help to reduce oil
consumption by substituting electricity for kerosene and diesel oil in
applications where electricity is more economical. Currently, in support of
these objectives, PLN has formulated a 10-year investment program amounting to
about US$15 billion equivalent.
Captive Generation
31.       Due to nonavailability of electricity supply from the grid, a large
number of industrial and commercial establishments produce electricity for
their own use. The growth of this "captive" power was very rapid in the
1970s, and their installed capacity is comparable to the generating capacity
of PLN. Since the captive power generation is largely diesel-based and gener-



- 12 -
ally more expensive than P1N's supply, government policy supports the replace-
meat of uneconomic captive generation sources by PLN's supply as rapidly as
PLN's grid can be extended to these sources, and to license new captive plants
only when they are economically efficient or where PLN cannot supply.
Pricing
32.       Following the increases in international oil prices in the 1970s,
petroleum products in Indonesia were highly subsidized. However, the Covern-
ment has moved rapidly to remove the subsidies in the past four years. After
a total increase of about 225X since December 1981, the weighted average of
domestic prices of petroleum fuels in September 1986 was slightly above the
average international price, although the kerosene price remained at about 75%
of the international level. Electricity prices have been increased by about
130% since 1981, resulting in the current average price of about 96.0 Rp/kWh,
which was equivalent to about USC8.5/kWh prior to the devaluation in September
1986 and which now amounts to about USC5.8/kWh.  Mainly because of the devalu-
ation, adjustments are needed to fully reflect the long-run marginal cost of
supply both in the level and structure of PLN's tariffs. The proposed project
would address this need (para. 73).
Institutions and Manpower
33.       Weak institutions and scarcity of trained manpower continue to
constrain rapid and efficient implementation of the energy strategy in spite
of the progress that has been achieved. In the electricity subsector, PLN has
made considerable progress not only in achieving a rapid expansion (its sales
grew by over 300% in the 10-year period 1974/75 to 1984/85), but also in
preparing for an even larger program in the future. The Fourth Five-Year plan
(1984/85 to 1988/89) had set a target of increasing PLN's sales by 15OX, from
about 10,000 GWh in 1983/84 to about 25,000 GWh in 1988/89. These targets
have since been scaled down in view of the deteriorating economic environment
and financial constraints. The sales target for 1988/89 is now about
19,000 GCh.  To meet even this reduced goal, PLN needs to implement and oper-
ate projects and systems of growing size and increasing technical and manager-
ial complexity. PLN also needs to continuously enhance and improve its capa-
bilities in all areas of management to manage such rapid growth. Special
emphasis on project management, engineering, finance and accounts, and man-
power development are needed. Also, PLN needs to strengthen its capacity to
efficiently operate and maintain the increasingly complex facilities currently
being constructed as well as those planned for the future.
Import Substitution
34.       The electricity industry is capital intensive with high import
requirements. About 60% of PLN's total proposed investment in the 10-year
period from 1984/85 to 1993/94 is expected to be in foreign exchange and to
amount to over US$10 billion equivalent. To help reduce the import content of
the program, the Government has been promoting, inter alia, increased use of
local consultants for engineering, and increased domestic manufacturing of
selected equipment. The implications of this policy for PLN are twofold.
First, it needs to strengthen its engineering capability to supervise and



- 13 -
guide the work of consultants, and secondly, it needs to develop its Testing
and Research Center to undertake a program of product testing, quality control
and guidance to local manufacturers, for the products for which it is a
dominant purchaser.
Bank Role and Strategy
35.       The Bank has been actively involved in developing and implementing
most of the sectoral objectives described above.  In 1981, the Bank carried
out a study of energy sector issues and prepared a report entitled
"Indonesia: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector". The report confirmed
that alternatives for oil must be developed quickly for electricity generation
and recommended that this strategy should be extended to other sectors such as
industry, transportation and households. It emphasized the need for efficient
pricing, stronger institutions and manpower development as major objectives.
In support of its ongoing dialogue with the Government on the pricing of
energy products, the Bank prepared a report entitled "Indonesia: Selected
Issues of Energy Pricing Policy" in 1983. Actions of the Government on the
pricing of petroleum products and electricity in the past three years have now
eliminated net subsidies. In October 1984, the Bank carried out a detailed
review of PLN's investment program for the ten-year period from 1984/85 to
1993/94. The findings supported the general direction of the plans but sug-
gested a scaling down of the programs and some measures for improving
investment efficiency. These findings, which were accepted by the Government,
were presented in the Bank report "Indonesia Power Sector Investment Review"
in 1985. Also, a Bank mission studied the possible measures to improve the
operational efficiency of thermal and hydra plants and the maintenance of
diesel plants, and presented its findings in a report entitled "Indonesia:
Power Generation Efficiency Study" in 1986.  The Government and PLN have
accepted the recommendations of these reports. In addition, the Bank reviewed
the rural electrification program in Indonesia and presented its findings in a
report in November 1986, entitled "Indonesia: Rural Electrification
Review." An Energy Options Study is currently being carried out which will
assist the Government in formulating a strategy for the development and use of
primary fuels.
36.       The Bank is also financing considerable technical assistance for
institutional development in the energy sector, including support to PLN in
such important areas as project management, planning, power market survey,
hydro survey, accounting, manpower development and training. Furthermore, in
the coal subsector, various steps are being initiated for institutional and
manpower development under two Bank-assisted projects: the Bukit Asam Coal
Mining Development and Transportation Project (Loan 2079-IND) and the Coal
ExpLoration Engineering Project (Loan 2153-IND). In the gas subsector, a
study on liquified petroleum gas (LPC) was financed under Credit 898-IND and
an energy pricing study is being financed under a Bank loan for the Gas
Distribution Project (Loan 2690-IND).
37.       The Bank's involvement with the electricity subsector in Indonesia
has gone through two distinct phases and has now entered the third and most
crucial phase. In the first phase (1968-1977), the Bank's work was directed
towards creating an autonomous nationaL entity to deal with the sectoral



- 14 -
problams and, after PLN's creation in 1972, to heln put in place procedures
and systems to manage and improve its then small-scale operations. In the
second phase (1978-83), the primary thrust of the Bank's work has been to
assist PLN to rapidly expand its supply facilities (sales increased 122Z in
the period) and, coupled with efforts to evolve integrated grids (particularly
in Java), to take full advantage of advanced technologies to reduce supply
costs. The fruits of this effort are expected to be reaped in the period
1985-89 with the commissioning of large power plants at Suralaya (1,600 MW),
Saguling (700 MW), and Cirata (500 MW), with an overlay of a 500-kV transmis-
sion grid. The costs of electricity supply are expected to drop significantly
in real terms during this period. The current phase of the Bank's involvement
is focused partly on contributing to the financing of Indonesia's massive
power programs to meet its development needs, and more so, to build on the
foundations laid in the second phase to transform PLN into a modern and mature
utility like others in the region through a major emphasis on institutional
objectives. These include greater financial autonomy, better operating
efficiencies, and improved engineering and research capabilities. The
proposed project addresses these concerns and would provide technical
assistance, inter alia, for the efficiency improvement measures. Suitable
efficiency improvement measures have been agreed with PLN. Action plans have
been formulated and their implementation would be monitored (paras. 53 and
70).
Earlier Bank Group Operations and PLN's Performance
38.       Since 1969, the Bank Group has provided US$2,083 million for power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities through 14 separate
projects. Four distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and 334-IND, and Loans
1259-IND and 2056-IND) rehabilitated and expanded distribution facilities in
the greater Jakarta area. Ten power projects (Credit 399-IND and Loans
1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-IND, 1708-IND, 1872-IND, 1950-IND, 2214-IND, 2300-IND
and 2443-IND) assisted PLN to expand electricity generation capacity in Java,
to provide a strong all-Java 500-kV grid, to extend distribution facilities in
Java, to reduce system transmission and distribution losses, and to introduce
a program of mini hydro development in Sumatra. Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) on the first six projects (Credits 165-IND, 334-IND, 399-IND
and Loans ll27-IND, 1259-IND, and 1365-IND) have been issued and the lessons
learned from these operations are being applied to subsequent operations.
They relate mainly to the need for timely appointment of consultants, and
delays in procurement and constiuction.
39.       PLN's implementation capacity has grown substantially since the
Bank's early association with it. All Bank-financed projects have been or are
being implemented as desigrned and generally within the estimated cost.
However, delays of the order of six months to two years in implementation have
been experienced compared to the appraisal estimates. The growing size and
complexity of the projects, coupled with cumbersome procedures for the
appointment of consultants, award of contracts, opening of letters of credit,
and budget approvals, have been responsible for most of the delays.
Implementation schedules for Bank-financed projects, however, have generally
been optimized to international standards with little slack to accommodate the
delays which can occur in a still-maturing utility like PLN. Moreover, steps



- 15 -
are being taken at the entity and national level to streamline budgeting and
procurement procedures.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       Feasibility studies for the transmission expansion in Java were
funded under the Sixth Power Project (Loan 1365-IND) and were completed in
1982. The feasibility studies for the expansion of distribution facilities in
the Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi (Jabotabek) area were completed in
1980, for the period up to 1990. PLN updated both these studies and presented
them to the Bank in October 1984. Bank missions appraised the project in
December 1984 and updated the appraisal in September l9B6. Negotiations were
held in Washington from November 20 to November 24, 1986. The Indonesian
delegation was led by Dr. Arismunander, Director General of Electric Power and
New Energy, Ministry of Mines and Energy. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5491-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
41.       The proposed project would support the Government's objectives to
promote productive activities and to improve the welfare of the population
through the provision of electric power, and also to improve the economic and
technical efficiency of energy supply and use. The extension of the network
would enable PLN to supply electricity to currently unelectrified areas to
serve residential, commercial and industrial consumers. In Java, the waiting
lists of industrial consumers alone amount to over 500 MW. Extension of PLN's
supply would also reduce the growth of uneconomic captive generation and help
to reduce oil consumption. In addition, by ensuring that the investments in
transmission and distribution during the next three to four years proceed at
the desired level, the project would help to reduce the cost of electricity by
optimizing the productivity of ongoing investments in generation projects.
42.       The project would also help to further strengthen PLN.  The project
would improve PLN's engineering capability by providing technical assistance
for strengthening the new Engineering Services Center, and thereby promote
more efficient use of scarce engineering talent. PLN's Testing and Research
Center would also be equipped for an expanded role in the testing and certify-
ing of indigenously produced equipment. In addition, the project would help
to strengthen PLN's financial position by ensuring continued attention to
measures necessary to achieve this objective, including tariff adjustments and
technical assistance for efficiency improvements. Finally, the project would
support detailed engineering of the proposed coal-fired power plant at Paiton
in East Java, which is the next important step in the Governmentts energy
diversification strategy.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
43.       The Bank strongly supports the Government's objectives in the power
sector and has played a major role through 14 projects since 1969 in helping
to build PLN into an autonomous power utility capable of meeting the demands
imposed by a large and sustained investment program. At this juncture, given
Indonesia's tight resource constraints, the Bank considers it of particular



- 16 -
importance to work with PLN to further improve its capacity to manage the
expanded system efficiently and to draw the greatest benefits possible from
both the proposed expansion and PLN's existing assets.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would comprise:
(a)  construction of 150-kV and 70-kV transmission lines and substations
in Java;
(b)  construction of 20-kV and 220/380-V distribution facilities in the
Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi areas (Jabotabek);
(c)  equipment for PLN's Testing and Research Center; and
(d)  consulting services for:
Ci) efficiency improvement measures;
(ii) engineering of the Paiton steam power plant in East Java; and
iii)  development of PLN's Engineering Services Center.
45.       Transmission and Distribution.  In 1981, using funds from the Sixth
Power Project (Loan 1365-IND), Beca Worley International of New Zealand
reviewed the development requirements for the transmission and distribution
program for the period up to 1987. Their report, dated April 1982, identified
additional requirements which have resulted in several projects financed by
the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan), the Federal Republic of
Germany, the Asian Development Bank, and export credits. PLN has carried out
further studies to define the total required program of transmission and
substation development in Java up to 1990, to match the ongoing program of
generating capacity additions in the same period, which amount to over 1,800
MW. A review of the ongoing transmission projects with respect to the
required program has identified the balance of requirements for Java, which
are proposed for financing in this project.
46.       The distribution component of the project covers the requirements
for the expansion of distribution facilities in the Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang
and Bekasi (Jabotabek) areas up to the middle of 1990. The studies for iden-
tifying these requirements were carried out by PLN, following up on the
studies carried out by SOFRELEC of France in 1979/80, to identify requirements
up to 1990.
47.       The scope of the transmission lines component of the project, in
terms of physical construction, involves about 174 km of 150-kV lines, 229 km
of 70-kV lines and 49 km of 150-kV underground cables. The quantities of
substation equipment covered by the project include about 1,410 MVA of
stepdown transformers, materials [or 136 switching bays at 150 kV and 70 kV,
393 units of 20-kV switchgear and 25 new substations. The distribution
component includes construction of about 1,406 km of 20-kV lines, 2,417 km of



- 17 -
400-V lines, 1,505 stepdown substations and 254,000 service entrances. To
improve the utilization of stepdown transformers at 150-kV and 70-kV
substA'tions included in the project, PLN would carry out a comprehensive
transformer relocation program to suit the project impleir.etation schedule.
48.       In view of the difficulties experienced in the past with the acqui-
sition of land for substations and rights-of-way for the ctransmission lines,
advance action has been initiated in this project. Out of chea 25 new sub-
stations proposed to be constructed, Land has already bee!  plirchllsed for
10 locations. Acquisition of land for the remaining lcatioLns would be
completed by June 1988.  Surveys and inventories for tran.mins.lou lines in
East and Central Java have been completed, while the remainit. slucetys and
inventories would be completed by October 1987. Compensaa:ion For a;ll rights-
of-way is scheduled to be completed by March 1988.
49.       Due to long Lead times for procurement of transmLs; itol tines and
substation equipment, PLN has encountered difficulties in respoatding quickly
to requests from industrial consumers for supply of power in arena requiring
installation of new 150-kV or 70-kV substations. As a result, irndulstries
sometimes find it necessary to purchase their own generating, equipNn.-nt, mostly
diesel plants, even though it may be uneconomic to do so. In order to respond
to such situations, the project allows flexibility for PLN to meet urgent
needs for power supply to consumers at locations which may not be covered by
the currently envisaged list of substations. Moreover, the proposed transmis-
sion Lines and substations in the project have been derived on the basis of
the current expectation of demand growth in different areas in Java, which
could change, requiring alteration to the physical plans for lines and substa-
tions. PLN has already standardized the transmission lines and substation
designs, which will permit changes in the program to be made without diffi-
culty. The project cost estimate therefore provides physical contingencies of
10% to permit variations in the required quantities of materials. PLN has
agreed to review annually, beginning December 31, 1987, the plan for substa-
tions and transmission lines included in the project in order to identify any
necessary changes. PLN would subsequently reflect these changes in the plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
50.       Testing and Research Center.  PLN's Testing and Research Center is
responsible for the testing of electrical power equipment, including certi-
fication of Local products and assistance to the power equipment industry, as
well as applied research on problems relevant to PLN's operations. Studies
have been carried out with French assistance to prepare a master plan for the
development of the Center for the next 15 years. The project provides for a
part of the funds needed for the first five-year period, primarily for the
purchase of additional equipment for existing laboratories, to enable them to
augment and modernize the test facilities.
51.       Consulting Services.  Funds for commencing the design and detailed
engineering for a thermal power plant in East Java (at Paiton) were provided
in the Eleventh and Thirteenth Power Projects (Loans 2056-iND and 2300-IND).
Consultants have been appointed following Bank guidelines. They have now
completed the design work and specifications for turbine generators and steam
generators, and other major components. The project would finance an exten-



- 18 -
sion of their services for procurement, post contract engineering and con-
tracts coordination work involving about 250 man-months of effort over about a
one-year period starting in early 1987.
52.       As agreed under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), PLN
has established an Engineering Services Center to integrate expertise and
optimize use of scarce manpower in project formulation, engineering and impLe-
mentation. PLN has now proposed to employ the services of a consulting
engineering firm to help in the development of the center. The proposed
project provides for such services, amounting to about 500 man-months spread
over a period of about three years. Terms of reference for the services and
shortlist of consultants were agreed with the Bank and proposaLs from the
consultants have been received and are being evaLuated. The appointment of
consultants is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.
53.       The project also provides for technical assistance to enable PLN to
formulate in detail and carry out certain efficiency improvement measures
(para. 70) including: (a) renovation of hydro-plants at Plengan, Ketenger,
Lamajan and Jelok in Java; (b) improvement in the availability factor of the
Suralaya coal-fired thermal plant; (c) improvement of the data base for
distribution systems, including detailed mapping; and (d) training. The
assistance may be in the form of individual experts or consulting firms to be
selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. These would be carried out
in 1987 and 1988 and would amount to about [50 man-months of consultant
services.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
54.       The total cost of the project including the physical and price con-
tingencies is estimated at about US$366.2 million equivalent, of which about
US$240.2 million (66%) is in foreign exchange. Costs are incLusive of taxes
and duties estimated to be about $9.7 million. All costs are based on
December 1986 prices and physical contingencies average about 7.7% of the base
cost. The price contingencies, which amount to about 10.8% of the base cost
plus physical contingencies, are based on: (i) domestic inflation rates of 10%
in 1987, 5% in 1988, and 3.5% in 1989 and thereafter; and (ii) international
inflation rates of 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% p.a. in 1988-90, and 3.5% in 1991 and
thereafter. Total financing required for the project is estimaLed at
US$386.2 million (including interest during construction of about US$20.0 mil-
lion), of which about US$260.2 miLlion (67%) is in foreign exchange.
55.       The proposed Bank loan of US$226.0 million would cover about 59% of
the total financing requirements of the project, including 87% of the foreign
exchange component.   The Government and PLN are in the process of finalizing
arrangements for financial assistance from the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany to cover the foreign exchange cost, estimated at about
$14.2 million, of goods and services required for the construction of trans-
mission lines and substations in Central Java. The Bank Loan would be
extended to the Government for 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Government wouLd onlend the
proceeds of the loan to PLN with the same amortization and grace periods at an
interest rate equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus no less



- 19 -
than a quarter percent for administration charges. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The onlending to PLN would be made under a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The
Government and PLN would finance the local costs, including taxes and duties,
and interest during construction.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Except for concrete poles which would be procured by local competi-
tive bidding, all equipment financed under the Bank loan would be procured by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. The Bank-financed items will
include: (a) transmission towers, conductors, insulators, and accessories;
(b) transformers; (c) 150 kV cables; (d) 150 kW, 70 kV and 20 kV switchgear,
control cables and accessories; (e) substation equipment; (f) distribution
materials; (g) concrete poles; and Ch) consulting services. Consultants would
he engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines. All bidding packages for goods
financed by the Bank and estimated to cost over US$1.0 million equivalent
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documents, which is
expected to cover all Bank-financed contracts.
57.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of
ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured items; (c) 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally (ex-shelf); (d) 80% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for concrete poles; and (e) 80% of local
expenditures for the services of local consultants and 100% of foreign
expenditures for the services of other consultants. All disbursements would
be on the basis of full documentation. No disbursements would be made for
expenditures prior to loan signing. Loan disbursement is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1992. The disbursement period has been estimated taking
into account the advanced state of preparation of the project and the Bank's
past experience with similar projects.
Project Implementation
58.       PLN would have overall responsibility for implementing the proj-
ect. PLN has car.ied out the feasibility studies for the transmission lines
and substations, completed most of the preliminary survey and design work, and
prepared tender documents. Consultants have been selected for assisting PLN
in tender evaluation, contract negotiations, post-contract engineering work
and construction management of the project. The total work is divided between
three local consulting firms, each assisted by a foreign consultant. These
arrangements have been accepted by the Bank and the work is being financed
under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2h43-IND). The engineering and con-
struction of the distribution component of the project would be carried out by
PLN's own distribution staff. The staff in the Jabotabek area is already
implementing the ongoing program for the expansion of the distribution network
(under the Eleventh Power Project, Loan 2056-IND) and is sufficiently



- 20 -
experienced for the proposed program. ALL procurement would be carried out by
PLN's staff at its head office. Since there were considerable delays in the
procurement cycle in the Eleventh Power Project (Loan 2056-IND) and in the
Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), which resulted in delays in
implementation and disbursements, both the Government and PLN plan to
implement an action program to complete all contract awards by October 1987.
59.       The construction of the transmission lines and substations is expec-
ted to be completed by the end of 1991 and the distribution equipment is
planned to be installed by the middle of 1990. Project implementation is
expected to be completed in all respects by December 31, 1991.
Institutional Aspects
60.       Over the past ten years, PLY has grown impressively to become the
largest utility in the country. Inevitably, such a rate of growth has been
attained at the cost of considerable strain on PLN's management. Key areas in
which a need for strengthening has been recognized as a condition of main-
taining the growth are planning, project management, management information
systems, efficiency improvement, manpower development, and accounting and
budgeting.
61.       In all of these areas appropriate technical assistance has been
devised in consultation with the Bank, and in most cases supported with Bank
funds. For its overall planning activities, PLN established a corporate
planning unit in 1981 and a market survey unit in 1982. The Government has
recently set up a new planning directorate in MME which would establish
procedures to ensure coordination of the relevant agencies in providing policy
guidance and in reviewing and approving the demand forecasts prepared by PLN's
power market survey group. PLN has also, as agreed in the context of past
projects, begun to prepare a rolling ten-year financial forecast and financing
plan based on its long-term investment program (para. 67). Both operational
and financial objectives were elaborated in PLN's five-year corporate plan,
approved by its Board in November 1984. PLN's manpower development and
planning needs have been addressed under a number of Bank-supported
projects. Of particular note is the Twelfth Power Project (Loan 2214-IND),
which includes a major training component focussed on reorganizing and enlarg-
ing PLN's manpower planning, training and personnel management functions for
middle- and lower-level staff. Special attention is also being given to the
training needs of PLN's accounting and auditing staff.
62.       In the project management area, the Eighth Power Project (Loan 1708-
IND) included technical assistance which specifically addressed all aspects of
project management. The recommended project cost and progress reporting
system has been implemented. The Bank has also assisted PLN in developing an
integrated management information system, including improved accounting and
financial management information systems. In all of these efforts, the
assignment of local counterpart staff has been emphasized in order to ensure
the transfer of know-how and effective maintenance of the systems by local
staff once the systems are installed for operation. Finally, to strengthen
PLN's engineering capabilities, as agreed under the Fourteenth Power Project
(Loan 2443-IND), PLN has established an Engineering Services Center (para. 52)



- 21 -
to unify project formulation, engineering, design, procurement and construc-
tion monitoring. Thus, while much remains to be done in terms of institu-
tional development, considerable programs is being made through a wide range
of initiatives.
Long-Term Development Plan
63.       PLN follows a practice of preparing a long-term development plan to
cover the projected requirements of generation, transmission, distribution and
other facilities. The latest plan, covering the development period 1985/86 to
1993/94, shows generating capacity increasing from about 5,240 KW in 1985/86
to over 10,000 MW in 1993/94. The major growth would be achieved by the
construction of coal-fired thermal, hydro and geothermal plants, reducing the
share of oil-based electricity generation from the current level of about 66%
to about 40% in 1993/94. It is a balanced program which support. a vital part
of the Government's objective of reducing the domestic usage of oil.  While
PLN appears capable of implementing such a program, a major constraint may
develop in mobilizing the required finances if the Indonesian economy does not
improve within the next two or three years.
64.       In order to ensure soundness of the overall development program, the
Bank has made the following agreements with the Government and PLN, which
would be continued under the proposed project: (i) the Covernment would review
annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN's development plan and associated
financial forecast and financing plan, and would take appropriate measures to
facilitate PLN's access to required finance; (ii) the Government would,
through PLN, review annually with the Bank, in particular, potential changes
in the load growth for electric power on Java and any adjustment which may be
required in PLN's development plan to accommodate these changes; (iii) the
Government and PLN would review annually with the Bank, PLN's proposed
investment budget for the following year in order to enable the Bank to
express its views on the priorities reflected in the budget and on the balance
among the generation, transmission and distribution investment; and (iv) PLN
would prepare and furnish to the Bank annually for review its proposed
customer connection program, and thereafter implement the program.
Financial Performance
65.       Concurrent with PLN's incorporatLon in 1972, measures were taken
with the support of the Bank Croup to establish a sound financial basis for
the organization, and to eliminate the operating losses which were then being
incurred. This was achieved by 1976. During the period 1982/83 through
1986/87. PLN is expected to have self-financed about 19X of its capital
investment program, mainly from depreciation and consumers' contributions.
The government equity contribution accounts for about 35% of the program, and
the major source of funding has been borrowing, which corresponds to about 46%
of the program. As a result of this mix of funding, PLN's debt/equity ratio
is still low at about 40/60 estimated for 1986/87, and its debt service
coverage ratio exceeds the required 1.5. Its latest balance sheet (1985186
unaudited) shows a healthy current ratio of 2.1 and substantial liquidity.



- 22 -
66.       Since May 1980, tariff. have been adjusted upwards four times, with
the last much adjustment being in March 1984. The magnitudes of these tariff
adjustments have been inadequate to cover cost increases other than the oil
price impact on PLU's fuel bills, and they have also lagged behind the fuel
price .ncreaseu. PLN's not income, therefore, declined steadily after 1980/81
and remained negative (on a revalued asuets basis) through 1985/86, and this
trend is expected to continue in 1986/87. Howeverp with depreciation,
consumers' contributions, and lower than expected capital expenditures, PLN
was able to meet until 1985/86, the indicative targets of a solf-financing
ratio (SFR) required or projected under previous Bank inns. The Government,
in the past, provided PLN with substantial funding, mainly in the form of
equity. Although PLN is authorized by its charter to borrow from local and
foreign lenders and to issue its own obligations, the Covernment in practice
secures all foreign borrowings on behalf of PLN and bears all foreign exchange
risks. Due to growing budgetary constraints facing the Government, foreign
borrowings through onlending arrangements have become increasingly import-
ant. In addition, the Covernment is allowing PLY to borrow from government-
owned banks at subsidized interest rates to finance its local cost investment
expenditures.
67.       Given the size of PLN's planned capital expenditures and the
resource constraints faced by the country in the near term, PLN's long-term
objective is to minimize government equity funding, increase the level of
self-financing, and fill financing gaps by substantially increasing both
foreign and local borrowings. As agreed under earlier Bank loans, PLN has
begun to prepare a rolling ten-year financial forecast based on its proposed
development program and also a financing plan for the first five years, as
part of its corforate planning procedures. The financial forecast and
financing plan ate adopted by PLN's Board and discissed with the Government
and the Bank. These practices would be continued under the proposed project.
68.       During the past three years, PLN has initiated various measures to
improve its operational efficiency and reduce costs. These measures, along
with a 10% rRduction in July 1986 of the prices of industrial fuel oils (the
impact of which was offset partially by a simultaneous reduction of about 6%
in the electricity tariff for industrial consumers), have helped to improve
PLN's operating ratio. Its financial rate of return (ROR) is estimated to be
about 0.5Z in 1986/87, compared to -0.2% in 1985/86 and -0.9% in 1983/84. The
SFR for 1986/87 would, however, be at a level of about 15%, compared to 20% in
1985/86 and 22% in 1983/84. This decline is mainly because debt service
payments would absorb a larger share of the internally generated funds, as
repayments on some of the onlent foreign loans have now started. The improve-
ment in PLN's operating ratio during the last 2-3 years, however, is marginal.
PLN is not able to satisfy the revenue covenant adopted under the Fourteenth
Power Project (Loan 2443-IND) in 1984, which requires it to achieve a ROR of
not less than 6% in 1985/86, and annual RORs of not less than 8% in the fiscal
years thereafter. For PLN to have achieved the covenanted RORs for 1985/86
and 1986/87, tariffs would have to have been increased by about 13% at the
beginning of 1985/86, and by about 52 in 1986/87. The Government, however,
did not permit any tariff increase, as it considered a tariff increase would
have reduced the pressure on PLN to improve its efficiency. The Government
also considered that PLN's financial performance needed to be evaluated in a



- 23 -
broader context because of the inherent differences among its regional opera-
tions.
Financial Performance Monitoring
69.       The Government, PLN and the Hank have reviewed jointly whether the
revenue covenant currently applicable to PLM, is appropriate for PLN's opera-
tions as a whole and whether PLN realistically can be expected to achieve the
*       financial o',jectives underlying the covenant.  PLN's operations in Java, which
account fvr about 801 of its total energy sales, are profitable. These opera-
tions, vnich include Large central power stations which supply electricity
through an interconnected grid system, are at a scale which is reaching a
level comparable to, and have conditions which are similar to, those prevail-
ing in other large utilities in the region. By most standards, PLN's opera-
tions in Java are considered well established and sufficiently commercially
oriented to warrant their performance to be measured by normal utility
yardsticks. PLN's operations outside Java, however, differ substantially from
those in Java, and are highly unprofitable. These are small-scale operations
based largely on diesel which are dispersed over a large number of islands,
and encompass over 600 separate power generation and supply networks. These
networks have a high cost of energy generation. This, coupled with isolated
load centers, limited demand and high transmission and distribution losses,
results in high overall energy supply costs. Moreover, PLN carries out at the
Government's direction, both inside and outside Java, a variety of socially
oriented operations, such as its rural electrification programs which are not
of a coumercial nature. These noncommercial activities comprise a major
portion of PLN's operations outside Java and have a significant adverse impact
on PLN's overaLl finances.  PLN is not able to set a tariff outside Java which
is higher than in Java because the Government considers a countrywide uniform
tariff to be desirable to meet social and regional development objectives.
The Government and PLN, however, recognize that over a period of time these
operations should become self-sustaining and eventually profitable.
70.       As a means for improving its overall operating performance, PLN has
agreed to carry out, in consultation with the Bank, action plans: (a) for con-
trolling and reducing system losses in its 1986/87 and thereafter; and (b) for
efficiency improvements for all its operations, including detailed, monitor-
able targets for its operations outside Java. These improvements are,
however, not expected to alter significantly in the medium term the opera-
tional differences between PLN's operations in Java and those outside Java.
The Government, PLN and the Bank have therefore agreed that PLN should adopt
separate financial nerformance targets for the two types of operations, where
the operations in Java would be expected to earn annual RORs commensurate with
the nature of these operations, and the operations outside Java would
progressively achieve a break-even situation within the next five years.
Agreements have been reached that: (a) PLN would take all measures required
to realize for its Java operations, no later than in 1988/89 and in each
fiscal year thereafter, an annual ROR of not less than 8%; and (b) PLN would
take all measures required with respect to its non-Java operations to produce
for each fiscal year after 1989/90 total revenues equivalent to not Less than
the sum of: (i) total operating expenses for non-Java operations; and (ii) the
amount by which debt service requirements for non-Java operations exceed the



- 24 -
provision for depreciation. For the purpose of the ROR calculation, it was
agreed that PLN would carry out an annual revaluation of its assets from
1986/87 onwards in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and that for both its
operations in Java and outside Java, it would provide the Bank with separated
historical financial results (beginning with 1986/87) and forecasts on a pro
forma basis, but not separate audited financial statements. This arrangement
is satisfactory.
Future Finances
71.       The 8% ROR covenant for the operations in Java would be met in
1988/89 when a tariff increase of about 251 is expected to be required at the
beginning of that year. Smaller annual tariff increases are expected to be
required in 1989/90 and 1990/91, to maintain the rate of return at a level
above 8%. A tariff increase in 1987 is not considered practicable by the
Government, as it is trying to contain inflation following the recent
(September 1986) currency devaluation, and has declared its intention to main-
tain the prices of essential commodities as well as to limit price increases
by state enterprises to the extent possible. Tbe break-even covenant for the
onerations outside Java is projected to be met in 1990/91, with the tariff
increases projected during the period from 1988/89 to 1990/91, along with the
implementation of the action plan to improve the efficiency of operations
outside Java (para. 70).
72.       Achievement by PLN of an 8% ROR for its operations in Java would
improve its overall ROR from -0.2% in 1985/86 to a range of 5-7X from 1988/89
to 1992193. In spite of such significant improvements in its rate of return
performance, PLN's SFRs during the period 1987/88- 1990/91 are estimated to
remain in the 16-21% range, but would gradually improve to about 29% in
1992/93. PLN's annual capital expenditures (including interest during
construction) in 1990/91 are expected to be nearly three times the level in
1985/86 when its SFR was about 20%. One of the reasons for the lack of
improvement in the projected SFRs is the increase in the amount of investment
in Rupiah terms because of the September 1986 currency devaluation. However,
PLN would finance an increasingly larger share of its investmenL program (55-
70%) through local and foreign borrowings, and rely less on government contri-
butions. On this basis, debt as a percentage of debt pius equity (excluding
rtvaluation surplus) would rise from about 41% in 1986/87 to 56% in 1989/90
and stabilize thereafter. The debt service coverage ratio would be about 1.6
to 2.0 times for most of the years of this period. This projected performance
is satisfactory.
Power Tariffs
73.       In 1979, the Government and PLN agreed under the Seventh Power
Project (Loan 1513-IND) that the tariff structure for electricity should
reflect the long-run marginal cost (LRKC) as closely as possible; satisfactory
changes were implemented in May 1980. However, the tariff increases of 1980-
83 resulted in some deviations from LRMC pricing. First, since these tariff
increases were effected entirely through energy charges without appropriate
adjustments in demand charges, the fixed charges (demand charge) were low
relative to the variable charges (energy charge). The Government and PLN have



- 25 -
already moved toward correcting this distortion in 1984 and it is expected
that further progress would be made in the coming years. Second, the tariff
changes have resulted in a significant degree of cross-subsidy between
different categories of consumers, with commercial and affluent residential
consumers compensating for low tariffs for small residential consumers. While
no major changes in the latter policies are foreseen, the Bank has advocated
continuing review of the situation, with no increase in the degree of cross-
subsidy. The existing covenant requiring PLN to carry out an annual review of
its tariff level and review its LRMC periodically would continue under the
proposed loan. PLN would review the results of the tariff level study with
the Government and the Bank before the end of each calrndar year.
Accounts Receivable
74.       PLN's general consumer accounts receivable position has been kept at
about one and a half months of annual billings, which is satisfactory.
Collections from government users, however, have not been as prompt. The
Government has been aware of the unsatisfactory payment performance of govern-
ment users. In 1983, the MME issued instructions jointly with the Ministries
of Finance, Defense, and Home Affairs to expedite payments by government users
to PLN. Overdue government accounts receivable were reduced from over one
year in 1981182 to about five months of billing in 1983/84. As a result of
continued efforts by the concerned ministries and PLN, the overdue government
accounts receivable were further reduced to about two months (62 days) of
billing in 1985/86, and are currently less than two months (54 days) of bil-
ling. An existing covenant, which requires that amounts owed to PLN by all
government users in aggregate not be overdue by more than two months of total
yearly billings for such users, would continue under the proposed project.
Insurance
75.       PLN currently carries transit and marine insurance on equipment and
materials in transit. Projects under construction are covered by the
contractor's all-risk and erection insurance. Fire and other hazards on
assets in operation are still self-insured. In view of the geographical
spread of PLN's assets, any single loss would be relatively small by compari-
son with total assets and operations, and this policy has been accepted by the
Bank. However, some very large-sized projects have recently been completed
and others are now under implementation which would result in a greater con-
centration of assats in certain locations than in the past. As agreed under
the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), PLN has, with assistance from a
local insurance company, carried out a review of its insurance practices and
requirements. As a result of the review, PLN now recognizes the need to take
out commercial insurance for at least its major operating assets. The Govern-
ment has approved, as a first step, PLN's plans to take out insurance for
about 30% of its high-risk assets, at Muara Karang and Suralaya thermal power
plants. PLN is continuing to review the question of the proportion of assets
to be insured by commercial agencies, versus that to be carried as self-
insurance, and is expected to inform the Bank of its decision by March 31,
1987.



- 26 -
Benefits and Risks
76.       The project would provide support to the electricity subsector
through a crucial period of its growth and development (pars. 37). The tech-
nical assistance components of the project, combined with ongoing efforts,
would support PLN as it continues to move toward technical and financial
maturity. In addition, the project would help to extend the supply of elec-
tricity in Java to residential, commercial and industrial consumers. About
250,000 residential consumers who have no access to public power supply would
benefit, in addition to a large number of industrial and commercial consum-
ers. The project would help to optimize the efficiency of ongoing investments
in generation projects, by maintaining the balanced development of the
necessary transmission and distribution facilities.
77.       In projects involving transmission and distribution networks where
it is difficult to assess the benefits attributable to the specific components
of the expansion program and where the schemes represent an area and time
slice of a total development program, it is appropriate to evaluate the
economic rate of return of the entire program. In the case of this project,
the economic analysis of PLN's investment program in Java for the period 1987-
1991, of which the current project is a part, was carried out.
78.       The internal economic rate of return tIERR) for the investment
program in Java is estimated at 17%. It would fall to about 15% if the
investment costs rose by 10% or if sales went down by 10%. The internal
financial rate of return (IFRR), using revenue to PLN at the prevailing tariff
as the benefit, is about 8%. This shows that the tariff is still somewhat
below the cost of supply. If tariffs were increased by 20%, the IFRR would
rise to about 11%.
79.       The risk in the implementation of the transmission and substation
projects is primarily one of delay that may occur in the acquisition of land
for substations and rights-of-way for the construction of overhead lines. PLN
has already initiated advance action to avoid such delays. A satisfactory
action plan for completing the acquisition to suit the project implementation
schedule has been agreed with PLN and the Government. There are no unusual
risks in the implementation of the distribution component of the project.
Environmental Considerations
80.       The transmission and distribution investments would be designed and
carried out in accordance with the current technological practices and are
expected to cause minimum disturbance to the environment. Also, PLY would
coordinate the routing of the lines and the land acquisition with local
authorities to reduce their adverse impact. No environmental hazards are
foreseen.



- 27 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
December 18, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-28 -                                                              M    I
IICOCIA - ECONOMC  IISICATS                                                     Fe.   I of 2
X         .....  ...... ........... ....... 0 _ _.   _.... _                       _..
Plemn   I  35".=2  IllIwIco (.1449low)
p..re Capita, i ISGO DOES3 .a.ooSi")
Annual *,-.t   rats (1) (at eo.Ltent 1963 prig")
Aemur r"r   %i,          ..... ....... _..................................................... ...... ........ ............... ................__.___....__._._
(milIion UN  ati                           Actuam                        ALo                          Proj.csod
lhdigtr                              1,1113                   1961       196i2     1655      1904      I S       flft      3967      IC"       3two       3000     13
afltNAL ACCOLEI
Ore".  dmatis pro.dut /s              63,076                 7 4       -0.3  a       a      a         1 1       0 2       k 7       20 *        a         5 1     43
Ariculture                          19.4                   4 a          I71                         I                     i a9  32  11  21  30        3 0       30
Industry                           29.457                 is        -s.1       2.0       aA       -33       -i 0       27         35        A*         a;       JI
3or.iaea                            32.152                12.1       7.4      *a         a:           a       a0  a     Io        25        35        40        50
Consumption                           W.TL2                  117        2.1      -0         1 I0      30       -19I        I2       L?        32        3a        49
.Ore  I--o oten%t                     2210?                 32 9        0.3    10 *        aa       -i2    -12 3        -04        43        3?        53        63
Eaport- of GS                         21949                 -9.5    -L0.0        14.5       4.6      -2         5 0 a     34        45        a0        27        13
teorts of 0WS                         2i.7?3                ;0i a      *     -13.1    -10 2          -7r     -16 3       -0a5       3         33        33        4a
Crms .astional s.i.p                    37."6                  41 7    -13.3       19.0      23 3      -21       13?         14       39        a6         45        2a
PrICES
COP doflator (1963.1001                                       62         5a       100       1OS       104       lO0       ii?       122       126        130       lil
Eahc,Og  rate (RP Par  Liss)                                 532        553       09       1025      111      1412
She,r  of CDP at -orht pr.c.. (                                    A ..a.. go  nnu i ,-cr-a   (6)
(st eurrvnL Priico) /e                                    (at eoeotAot 1963O pr.ca)
- --  _.-_ -- -----_  _- -- -..- ---------_ _  ---- -- ------ --- _ _  -- -       ---  ......... .. ..........._... ..._. .. .._.........._.._._. . .
1470      l20s      19        t    1968  2090     1995             1970-75  ls18-0O  ieeO-ma  lw6-90  1990-95
_~~~~~-         -       ---       ---   . . --_._--    _______      ___..  ........  -------  -   --_-_  .......  ------
Cross dwaast.i  product                            100       100        1t0       100       iD0       10o                 a         7 4       3 6       24        3 9
Arcutul.ura                                       47        32        25        24        24        23                  41        33        34        23        30 
Industrir                                         36        3         41        35        as        34                130        96        aa         2 4       3O
Sir.ceo                                           35        3J        35        40        40         42                 97        95        *6        2 3       5 e
C.u..Pt;_--                                         m9         10        71        70        57        as                 *'        02        34         a5       42
Cropsu,n.satsot                                      14       20        23         25        22        24                163       122        50       -03I       S 
E.Port m of CNFS                                    23        23        32        26         25        25                 92        20       -12        '2        13
I-Port of OWF                                      -16       -22       -2?       -21       -17        -1I               22 1       1  0     -  5      -2 1       43 
Crosn not. eanl so.  nfo                             9         1?       25         24        29        28                23 1      14 2       3 4       59        3 5
As S of COP
1970          ~~~~1075             1980               12GM
RELIC F l1hCCE lb
Currant r.a..o.                                                                            10 1                174                 209                 224
C.,rrnt esad,ture                                                                          5 4                  9 I                11 e                £5 3
Surpluo                                                                                     1 6                 7 5                 90                  73 
Captal opsd.turo                                                                           5 0                 11 3                12 1                10 2
For-.qn *iane.s                                                                             3 5                 3                   3 I                 2 0
1970-15             1411-40             1960-"5             1985-90             1090-45
T071   INDICATORS
.... _.._..........
Arnnu   04D *ronth rate (5)                                                       7 6                 7 1                 3 a                 2 7                 4 0
Annual tWp .r,so  ta  oro th rat   ()                                            5 I                  4 7                 1 2                 0 6                 I 9
Annual .- ttgy counpti@ lgroath rote (3)                                         11 2                Li 0                N A                 N A                 N A
ICOR                                                                             2 2                 3 3                 79                   9 2                 5 9
Maro.nal mc  ngo rots                                                           0 48                 0 26                0 23                0 63                0 25
lpportlt      e tr                                                               2 a                0 84               -0 42                -0 71                3 10
Vs At morkat pr-es
lb  C-nt.sl Coe-rn-t  M1y. On                          fatal f  ss' bass
ft  At constant prc-.  fC-  1980 on
Eput A. a -4 P e V e Ro-g.ol Off-Co
Ocoobor U1954



-  29  -                                                               I
I      A - SALMCE  OF e AWOETI * DtTL CAPITAL *Me OCT                                           _
.  ....................... ......... ,:.............               ne  It of, 2
(LjS alIisn. at current poises)
Population    i    i1.52 m111lon (mid-l3)
C  psr CapitAa tlUS (160 seItwlsta
AC                       Eat.                    Projest.d
.... .................................................... ...    ....-  ,............................ . ......................... .........
1962     1uS      5It      1264       1UB     lgg       1q37     164       16ie      l660     104S
6ALNMC OP PAWHID i s
......................
1   bpot g.,306   19. 172   20,2921  20 ,9                                                    36.312   34.300   37311  19.730   21.334   22,243   33,374
(a) ail and LMI ({m-a)                              16,42A   14,744   14.449   14.436   12. 51    6.27         .C45   10.60    l2.072   11,219  14,672
(h) N*noll                                          4. 170                       D. we 5*170    *we  maw   six *aua JU*42    e02ns    emsN2    1u1i1
(a) Nli                                                ale5     a         472      575   IU3          s0        776      U7    1.I33    1,15U    1,eS
2   laperl                                              22Cm 2_,66   20,126   17,824   IS,16I    15.060   15.604   16.510   17.35,   10,619    26,i23
(a) ail asetr                                      5.407    4,602    3.311  2,948    3.241    2.477    2.602    3,179    3.367    3.57T    5J360
(h) Nono1 I laponta                                 14.581   15.624   14.248   12.705   11.010   10.42   10.661   11.067   11,575   12.134   17.665
(c) Ws                                              2.617    2.218    2.042    2,374    2,290    2.120    2.250    2.314    2.385    2,463    3.367
3.  Assures halance                                        424   (38667)      l65    3,011   2.733        (760)   1,82    3.16       S. 777    4.046    6.751
4.  Factor ara.Icaa                                     (3.206)  (38.0)  (4,52611 (5.0145)  t4l7u   (3.585)  (4.364)  (4.999)  (4. O4)  (5.106)  (6.72'3
[a)  "aslipta                                        1.673    L1.0t       666      we        743      669       799      7`6       744      666       63
(2) Patoants                                        (4.86)  (4.729)  (8,425)  (6.0412  (8.512)  (4. WS)  (8.163)  (5,7U9)  (5.72)  (3.778)  (7,150)
5.  Capital gants                                           67       ION       95       100      120       111      1o0       1bO      150      I2O       10
6.  blanea gn currant * aeount                          (2.717)  (P.162)  (4.270)  11.846)  (1.6943  (4.301)  (2Q.82)  (I M58)  (1,066)    £912)          177
7.  Dirct foreign in.eatasnt                               142      312       143       245      2eo       250      325       425      49        562    1IJI3
a.  Pulilc N A LT lea                                    1.640    2.711    3.873    2,e6o0   1.160    8,23        2.157    1.122    1.004        927       75
.  Ethor capital (not)                                   (28S)     61o    1.qa3    (357)        949       637     (330)    (WQ)    (203)    (356)    (726)
10. Changs  in roar-s.  (- inrease)                        93     3.330   (I.669)    (639)    (515)       176      5am       442     (2343    (220)    (659)
II  Hot official raarn-                                  6.35a 4 a .004    4.613   5.332    5.847    5.671    5 .26        4n719    4,653    5,113    7.76
la-aresa in anna.  of noen;I
imoet.I NFS                                          4.4      2.0       L a      4.3      5.3       54        4 6      4.2       43       4 2       44
HeNs,rsnda Its.
Nat foreign  mats of the
hanliage arstsa lh                                10.622   6,321    6,488    9.376   10.825   10.440    993,6        9,467    9.731    9,651   14.419
Total rm-r-a in renAiL  Of
nonol  ipor. * iFS                                   7 3      4 2       6 2      7.7       6.6       66       6.2      6         6 4 *    a2 
--OX ML CAPITAL AND OMT Ic
Gross Diahub,aaents                                     2.673    4.192    *,e96    3.645    8.524
Cncausi -ol   Loan.                                       764       86"      60       S62       600
siHtarI1                                               716      so0       541      4*6       531
IDA                                                     69       73        60       54        U
atu-                                                     6        6         a        l       33
bononca... ioil Loas                                   1.6879    3.503    4.357    3.263    2,625
off. Cil .#eat erC, ts                                 170      II7       A"       404       122
lo                                                    32'       SOS       45       772       736
Othe,  ultilatral                                       6S       122      Lao       185      166
Pr..ata-aou.                                         I.3 Q    2.334    3.220    3,944    1'698
E.tsrnal Dmb1 /4
D.bt outsnding A dirb. .4d                          15,570   10e313   21.467   22.672   26,642
Off.eisl.-ourea                                   10.059   11,113   12.034   12.824   2d.974
f which  IBRD                                 1,306    1.735    2.123      2.793    3,375
Prinata-acu,ca                                   5s,63      7.402    Q,649   10.049   21, 5B
Und.bsurssd debt                                    11U367   12.670   13,778   13.973   15.095
Dabt Seneca
otl  a rw-ca payment.                               2.047    2.246    2.548    3.251    A,.o9
of  h. ch  IBR                                   146      207       254      316       420
I1.tdraat                                           (994)  (1.145)  (1.255)  C3,624)  (21,654
Panass ma 1 *.oorta /                                  8-2     12 1      12 0        46     176
Total debt *.ric. rat,o /f                            10 4     16 4      I  7     194       23 7
A-ra. Intarat Rat  -ono- La ..n- C)                       a7           2 7    6         1       6 1 I
Ofhei-l-o.,-cs,                                         6       6.8       6 7      88        7 6
Pri,ata-ao. . e.                                       O4       9.5       a a                4a  a
A-rao. "t-atu   of Na. Loans (Ysara)                     25.5     15.2      15-1     259       I s9
Official-urn.                                         20 5     20 6      22M3     20.9      217
Prinata-aourc.                                        21 I     11 I      10 3      6 2       7 6
A. S Ofra   outsanding at .ad of 1265
aturi,y atruetuer of d.ht oLtatading                              ---------        -------------------
Hatunitian  dud witin 8  Ja                                                             3e
Nturitia  due within 10 yasra                                                           U7
Interest trocts'. of d-b2 ostatandLng
Intarast du. withia f.at  ..sr,                                                       A 5
/a On an Aer I-to-Msrch fiacal Yaar baai.
lb  lnlqudes foreign -assaL of daoait asy  b-nk- in addition to offic-ai raaor.n
/c  E-cludse nrnasts noneuaranta.d loans and LiC s-Panaion.
/d  At and of period
/a  Oil saports traatd on gro.  baia.  EaPorts includa aar..csa  Debt marnics aacluds  r-PayarnLt of ayndcatsd loan-  in 1985
/f  Inclvd.a pri-at  nongua.antead loan..
Ebat Ass* and Pao;f.c Ragonal 0f' c.
Uaeab-r 1QB6



-     30 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1986) Ia
Loanl                                                         Amount (USs million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Forty-one Loans and forty-five Credits fully disbursed  1,950.45   819.70           -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                            107.00       -        16.34
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           50.50       -         4.71
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                      53.60       -         5.34
1707    1979   Transmigration II                            54.00       -        28.14
1108    1979   Eighth Power                                169.00       -        25.46
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                          35.49       -         3.56
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -       12.00       5.35
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III          92.00       -        15.67
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                           -       37.40       3.77
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II              -       39.00      14.49
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00       -        28.32
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV           30.00       -        14.42
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research               35.00       -        31.32
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                 235.00       -        39.82
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development              25.00       -         1.79
1904    1981   University Development                       45.00       -        20.80
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00       -         7.16
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                            22.00       -         9.89
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00       -        17.33
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           134.00       -        75.07
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00       -        60.76
2056    1982   Eleventh Poser                              170.00       -        30.47
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00       -         8.92
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loanl                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
t
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 183.70      -        48.49
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -        31.02
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      79.59       -        54.11
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        18.65
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -        13.63
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00       -        30.10
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             40.09       -         3.46
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           55.50       -        41.23
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -        11.92
2214    1983   TweLfth Power                               300.00       -       203.85
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         138.90       -       130.35
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        20.15
2236    1983   Jakarta Severage and Sanitation              22.40       -        18.44
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        40.35
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00       -        22.35
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60       -        12.36
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -       117.41
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        58.16
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -       103.06
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       144.31
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        42.39
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20      -        43.32
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        30.41
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        44.76
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -       138.16
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.25       -        30.87
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.65       -        27.20
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -        60.33
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -       184.23
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00      -          8.38
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         72.87



-32 -                       ANNEX I}
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ milLion)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation           11.30      -         11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II            131.00      -        130.98
2529    1985   Fourth Population                             46.00      -         45.31
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)          39.00      -         38.66
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                                i56.00      -        150.63
2547    1985   Second University Development                147.00      -        147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                  43.40      -         43.01
2577    1985   National Ports Development                   111.00      -        109.73
2578    1985   Transmigration V                             160.00      -        159.56
2599    19R6   Science and Technology Training               93.00      -         88.90
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development                32.00      -         31.74
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply                 43.30      -         43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health         33.40      -         31.97
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support             33.00      -         33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation             166.00      -        166.00
2690    1986   Gas Distribution la                           34.00      -         34.00
2702    1986   Export Development /a                         64.50      -         64.50
2705    1986   Manpower Development and Training             58.10      -         58.10
2717    1986   Highway Maintenance and Betterment           300.00      -        300.00
2725    1986   Housing Sector Loan /a                       275.00      -        275.00
2748    1987   Third National Agricultural Extension         70.00      -         70.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          8,835.19   908.10
Of which has been repaid                   -671.36   -26.22
Total now outstanding                     8,163.83   881.88
Amount sold to third party                  -57.56       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         8,106.27   881.88
Total undisbursed /c                                           4317.20
/a Not yet effective.
7i Prior to exchange adjustment.
7- Includes loans not yet effective.



33 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal                                                                Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                             Type of business          -- ([1$ million) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                   10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                         Textiles                   2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                  2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                 Cable                     2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                     4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel              Tourism.                  9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                  2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                    Electronics               0.9      -      0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                           Dev. fin. co.              -      0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. Ramaltex                        Textiles                  2.4    0.6       3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                    5.0    1.5       6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                      -     1.1      1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                     0.4      -       0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                   1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                         Textiles                  0.9      -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                 Capital market            4.0    1.2       5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries        Glass dinnerware         il.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia         Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing           Capital market            5.0    0.3       5.3
1984 - P.T. Semen Cibinong                   Cemenc                   25.0      -     25.0
Total gross comitments                                       143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                          116.7    8.1   124.8
Total held by IFC                                             26.9   11.5    38.4



34 -                              AENEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Section r: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    One year
(b)  Project prepared by:                    PLN
(c)  First presented to the Bank:            October 1984
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission:   November 1984
(e)  Postappraisal mission:                  September 1986
(f)  Completion of negotiations:             November 1986
(g)  Planned Effectiveness:                  May 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) PLN would undertake a transformer relocation program (para. 47);
(b)  PLN would acquire land for substations end rights-of-way for trans-
mission lines in accordance with a satisfactory schedule (para. 48);
(c)  PLN would review annually the transmission and substation plan,
commencing December 31, 1987, to identify changes necessary, and
subsequently reflect the changes in the plan in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 49);
(d) The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and PLN would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 55);
(e)  The Government and PLN would take all actions necessary to enabLe
PIN to achieve an 8% ROR for its Java operations by no later than
1988/89 and thereafter (para. 70);
(f) PLN would take all actions necessary to achieve break-even in its
operations outside Java by no later than 1989/90 (para. 70);
(g) A satisfactory action plan would be implemented by PLN for
controlling and reducing transmission and distribution losses in
1986/87 and thereafter (para. 70); and
(h)  PLN would carry out, in consultation with the Bank, an action plan
for efficiency improvements for all of its operations (para. 70).



ICn,,         THAILAND              '                                110                                I V
'Z' Banda Mobh
I-"
~~oArun
an                                                              Naluna                          BRUNEI *4
-p                  MALAYSIA
r        *an                                         N-V -Lm
V    ,Asohwn,                                                             
IL                               f                                               MALAYSIA   ,
|-..c>-SINGAPORE
J *                         Tbnjung Pinang                      N                                   A  SdF F              lf N
K,   A L I M  A  N  r A  NI
Ponlaonakl.       V                                     MUhoko Somorlndo
Pa g  Oun6lin      r_{
b                                                                             (owhlurdo           VI
J          JSUM Er A           S~#ANC6$A                                                     Senrakin0    *lhpapan
-'                     ~~~~~~~~Pongbolulnung 
S V 4M A  r  zf R A        bagnungpnundon  S 5OUV Hf R N                             . K A I 14 A IVrA N
IV          -Iembrq2njqndn                            OU ¶FR
Tabo CauIbn Arua.,Taqung Enim                      an 'rWvr                                        b
Bongkwlue           Hulu,il Atom                                                    Bmnjarmunin
MuorN l1ga    Bmnko
Tulukbaluuq,      /                                                                               Ujung F
/      JAKARTA
Sa-loW           JAWA
-   ,iluhiO    cir" iw'umrong                 MADURA
Bandwqg ° Komo)ono        3
otgko to           Suraboyo
Paitorp     BAL1            SUMOAWA
JAWA                          oKakaf s, oewo?  Slum
Denpaoar LOMbllO
*t  aPd acsiI vbm n s S t a. of fle hrUflrA  ndlA Wsniawulxr
-COena The  naptuLm_w und Ills boazane hu wn ao  - l p na aotn
I Me Hd of The WbS fI NtW M IiNabld flimm Cnuzoflm mh'4ut
v*  a.b of aww arfty or rw waiman   or smeua of sugr be_wdws
1W                 ..lOT                                                '!°-                                II



-::1
:t:
IBRD 12453R6
-  f  120'                          Il)'                              tJO'                                'I                                 lE-o
.-     ..   4                                                                                          INDONESIA
PHILIPPINES -   -                               PLN GENERATING CAPACITIES BY REGIONS
C~   /  .nMACH1 1D.
-"                                                                                            w ~IAL,_I1W        ZISOL.ALLID MW           0li,Nt WILA VAN NiMltts
S                   S            - v-l Y WILAVAM BOUNOAIIS
S     WILAVAM MtACQUAFITINI
nm              -  PD
,,,   .  ,   -  -   l dINMNATINAL NOUNDANhIE
\'                                               ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~/ *'1                                      hiM' '  l
/                                                            TOI 4311e
Menado               I'
..                                             d             I                        I
S   .A  tAMAHfEA'A
Goronfolo                  
/                       ~~~~~~~~Moafkwar,
*                                             ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I         / 
I ~~~~~~~~~~~2ni ~~~~~~~~~~~~joyapurO
*         \              la.arUhSdF  
'--ULAWESI                 y1            ['        \\Fok                            X     Nobre          fR/A  IV  I AA )A4
*Kendorl              '        L/R vr. .-                                                          enorolal                              5°
Vill                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kokonasu 
Aqats               ! 3
I.Pandon*n
'- - ~~~~~Boubou   f 
N
xi                                  At  ounr  ombuo<
,~~~~                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~ R  o 0ol  200  3WO       400        SWt                    to
Slobg.pu  RMIEES 
-:   Susr        aliipu                                                                                            2  tt    00 3s000 . ,30    4y  0,0   500               to
SLifIA            ~~~KupongMIE
o      30 00    2 0 30    600   !jI    60 790       500_IO
KILOMETERS
12r                                 125'                                  130'                                 135                                 140-
OCTOBER 1986



100'                                                                         1tr
SUMATERA
Kra&mIka Smtee
c Ra ngg/ id.b lu                                                               cI-
[c        JJAIGXRTA               i    ran
-          ;      >     Rorsl~~~~~~~~biursX            =_Iorlorny
Ckmjour
A ulu~~cum6wn
Pehuhan             C     q -f                                                                                         e 
Santera
Puntcksto  ~-un
,SSRnOdRrX     ~TerikrrebyrJ   ...M   
Rowulao_
toe'                                             cn.9 R4hbumua
,               ~~~~~10b                                                                                                                                           _
JAKARTA
t        u farn        An* o  Prick      Marunda
Ir pKaaridng   SEMARANG                                                             t                       r
Nalogadung      Int6   Sa p                                                                       Kudeau
Palo            ikmn                                                                                      SURABAYA
~t 5s; M PendakibUDem k
Clk« \1<~~~b Kelap.                                                                                                                               Pefrckimniat
S. Harbour                                           SLaniang        /      Gralk
|\ Ganul      ankaua ,                                             Well
UngKran
Kr          '                 
-  /   \                                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mcra



IBRD 17207R2
110@  1|7*                                                   114
INDONESIA
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
(COWMITTED FOR     FUTURE         PROPOSED
ERISTINO    COMPLETION BY 1917) DEVELOPMENT     PROJECT
Tronsmission Lines;
500 kV
150 kV + 70 kV
*                               111                        Power Stations
*                                                           500 kV Substations
*                               0              *             O150 kV 4- 70 kV Substations
XIV     PLN's Wiloych Numbers
6       Wiloych or Distribusi Headquarters
.. ..... PLN's Wiloyah Boundaries
SEMARANG              J       Rmai
P.k   ' gm -I                                      Ponin Tt                   SURABAYA
Store 
IAWA1                                                n *              T 
|    I  !              ,.s           s     ...        ,.-    c w  solons toI                                            S M,c. .  5v.
G Wcttmotebo _ . :                                        /5 GrnModura   PChO
=lncg<ag~  Salailga°\BO b                                                                IS.pOng
Bkobck                                              EAST JAWA
Vies       W      a.   j         Sa' o.                            xott
_Pmwas II                                                                 _
ono .                                                                       t 
Wana.or.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ag
Paiton   ~- -- ieubondo
110.                                          no~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAr3                                      Bondo-we
Wmn&t                    Lunrajang
Ce)and\.
0            5IS 1O 150 KILOMETEltS
W Mu                                             I        I  ---tI    
| 2 \        ~~~Suklxdlc           0        20      JO       o0       80       100 MILES
t: ,:D'CE\-   . BI
jp . - =                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEC EM13ER 19816
i.



