Document of              FLE COPY
The World Bank    FL CO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-29 38-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 31, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                             Dirham (DH)
DH 1                                      US$o.263
US*l                                      DH 3.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                             British/US System
1 meter (m)                               3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                          0.62 miles Cmi)
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47 acres
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
MHAT      Ministry of Housing and Regional Development
DRHAT     Provincial Delegation of Ministry of Housing and
Regional Development
MOI       Ministry of Interior
MEN       Ministry of Education
MJS       Ministry of Youth and Sports
MSP       Ministry of Health
BCP       Central Popular Bank ("Banque Centrale Populaire")
FEC       Communal Infrastructure Fund
ODI       Industrial Development Office
FNAET     National Fund for Land Purchase and Infrastructure
ERAC      Regional Planning and Construction Agency
RADEM     Meknes Public Utility Authority
RAK       Kenitra Public Utility Authority
PTU       Project Technical Unit
HB        Housing Bureau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:             U.S. $36.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Amortization in 17 years, including a 4-year grace period,
at an interest rate of 9.25 percent per annum.
Relending
Terms:             The Government would make $21.6 million available as
budgetary allocations to the Ministry of Housing (MHAT).
Residential and business plots developed under the project
would be sold to project beneficiaries at nominal interest
rates of 7 and 10 percent per annum, with maturities of 20
and 10 years, respectively. $6.7 million would be made
available as budgetary allocations to the relevant
ministries for the construction and equipment of community
facilities. $5.1 million would be on-lent to the
beneficiaries through the Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP)
for self-help construction, at an interest rate of 7
percent per annum over a period of 10 years. $2.6 million
would be on-lent by the Ministry of Finance to the project
Municipalities for the improvement of municipal services at
the same terms as the Bank loan.
Project
Description:       The project would support the Government's efforts to
provide shelter, basic services and employment to low-
income urban families, through a program to be implemented
in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. The project would
finance: i) upgrading of squatter settlements; ii)
provision of affordable serviced residential plots; iii)
credit for self-help housing improvement; iv) construction
of community facilities; v) development of serviced land
for business activities; vi) provision of facilities,
equipment and technical assistance to improve municipal
services in the project cities; and vii) studies for the
preparation of new urban development projects. About
66,000 persons in the urban poverty group, representing 39
percent and 57 percent of the urban poor in Meknes and
Kenitra, would benefit directly from the project. Improved
municipal services would benefit about 70 percent of the
urban poor in the project cities. The primary risks relate
to the need for adequate staffing of the project
implementing agencies in order to monitor, supervise and
coordinate project implementation, particularly in view of
the relatively limited experience in Morocco with
beneficiary selection and cost recovery for this kind of
project. These risks have been reduced by ensuring the
timely provision of appropriate qualified staff and by
careful review of beneficiary selection criteria and
procedures and cost recovery arrangements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                -----     US$ Million----------
Local         Foreign       Total
Slum upgrading                             13.4           3.5           16.9
Sites and services                         14.2           4.2           18.4
Building materials loans                    7.9            2.3          10.2
Community facilities                        5.8           1.9            7.7
Employment generation-!                      .9             .1           1.0
Municipal services2/                        1.6            1.4           3.0
Advisory services
and project administration                2.9           1.2            4.1
Studies for new projects                    1.2             .5           1.7
Base cost                                  47.9          15.1           63.0
Physical contingencies                      2.6           1.2            3.8
Price contingencies                        10.0           4.3           14.3
Total Project Cost                         60.5          20.6           81.1
of which estimated
taxes and duties                          8.0                          8.0
Total Cost (net of taxes)                  52.5          20.6           73.1
Financing Plan:
Kingdom of Morocco                         45.1             -           45.1
World Bank Loan                            15.4          20.6           36.0
60.5          20.6          81.1
Estimated
Disbursement:                                          US$ Million
Bank FY       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual                                   2.7      6.1    11.0    10.6       5.6
Cumulative                               2.7     8.8    19.8    30.4    36.0
Rate of Return:      18 percent (for components totalling 93 percent of project
cost)
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3118-MOR, dated September 30, 1980
1/  Includes costs for Kenitra only.  Costs for Meknes are included within the
slum upgrading and sites and services components, since the several
economic activity areas are scattered within the residential zones.
2/ Includes technical assistance for this component.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
l.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$36 million, to help
finance a second urban development project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-MOR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. A basic economic
mission visited Morocco in February 1979, and updating missions in September
and December 1979 and in May 1980. A draft basic economic report was
discussed with the Government at the end of 1979, and is due to be issued
shortly. The findings and conclusions of this report and the missions are
reflected in the following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.       Morocco has now moved towards a constitutional monarchy.  While the
regime remains highly centralized, the establishment of elected assemblies at
the national and local levels has had a marked effect on the political
structures and on the debate on major social and economic issues. The
dependence of the elected assemblies oii popular support has made them and the
Government increasingly aware of and sensitive to local aspirations, including
the needs of the poorest members of the population.
4.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential. Intensive
irrigated agriculture has expanded in the Northwest plains, where the humid
and temperate Atlantic climate combines with fertile soils. Extensive
coastlines on both the Mediterranean and especially the Atlantic offer
considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's largest and most
easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key
one in the economy as regards the generation of foreign exchange. Other
minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, etc. are also exported, but
in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants help to meet part of the
country's energy requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil.
Morocco has however uranium and oil shales in very sizeable quantities which
could become profitable to exploit in the near future. In addition, Morocco's
geographical location gives it other advantages; its proximity to Europe has
been a factor favorable to the development of international trade, tourism and
labor migration with the EEC countries.



-2-
5.        During the Second and Third Development Plans, which covered the
1968-77 period, national income grew distinctly faster than population, with
per capita income growing at an annual real rate close to 3 percent. The
conservative approach which had tended to predominate in the post-independence
(1956) years gave way after 1970-71 to a greater emphasis on growth. Thus,
the 1973-77 Plan aimed at a marked acceleration of economic growth and also an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, it was initially
based on an export-oriented investment strategy and a much intensified savings
effort. However, taking advantage of the sudden but short-lived rise in
phosphate prices in 1974-75, the Government launched in 1975 an ambitious
investment program which brought about a considerable increase in demand for
imported goods and services (their share in GDP rose from 20 percent in 1972
to 40 percent in 1977). Growth of GDP averaged 7.3 percent p.a. during
1973-77 and imports grew rapidly. At the same time, however, exports of
phosphates and agricultural products lost their dynamism, altbough exports of
manufactured goods continued to increase at the rapid rate of 11 percent per
year in real terms. These various factors produced a skewed growth pattern in
which the weakness of exports and savings contrasted with the dynamism of
investment and Government consumption, and by 1977 the economy's resource gap
exceeded 20 percent of GDP, whereas it had never exceeded 5 percent before
1974.
Recent Developments.
6.       After the 1973-77 period of rapid growth which led to financial
disequilibrium, the Moroccan economy entered in 1978 a phase of adjustment,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels
and a significant reduction in the rate of growth. In 1978, the first year of
the adjustment, public investment was cut back by 40 percent and the growth of
current budget expenditure held down to about 13 percent (or less than 3
percent in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined with
tight credit policies and stringent import controls. As a result, the
economy's resource gap was reduced from 22 percent of GDP in 1977 to 14
percent in 1978, while the overall Treasury deficit declined from 17 percent
of GDP to about 11 percent. Since then, however, progress towards
stabilization has been slow and both fiscal and external imbalances remain
substantial. This loss of momentum can be attributed in part to the
deterioration in the terms of trade related to the recent oil price
increases. The Government was also led to relax its austerity program in 1979
in order to meet the pressing needs of its social programs, and to keep the
rate of growth of the economy from falling below the rate of population growth
(about 3 percent p.a.).
7.       The policies adopted in 1978 had an immediate impact on the external
payments situation, which improved considerably in that year. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments was reduced by $500 million in 1978
to $1.3 billion (excluding special grants). This reflected a $400 million
improvement in the trade balance on goods and non-factor services, along with
a substantial increase in factor service income induced by the establishment
of an exchange rate premium on workers' remittances. Merchandise imports



- 3 -
declined more than 25 percent in constant 1969 prices. Except for food and
petroleum, most import categories showed considerable declines in current
terms. As a result of this performance, the growth of external borrowing
(excluding grants) slowed considerably in 1978, but remained at about $1.4
billion.
8.       Since 1978, there has been relatively little change in the overall
balance of payments situation, which continues to require large amounts of
borrowing. The trade deficit on goods and non-factor services widened in 1979
as imports began to rise again and the cost of petroleum imports jumped to
$710 million from $430 million a year earlier. The total import bill for
goods and non-factor services increased from $4.0 billion in 1978 to $4.7
billion in 1979. On the export side, although weather conditions adversely
affected several key agricultural export crops, overall export growth in 1979
was reasonably satisfactory at about 5 percent in constant 1969 prices, and
workers' remittances continued to rise. The current account deficit of the
balance of payments increased by about $250 million to $1.6 billion in 1979,
reflecting both the rise in the import bill and a substantial increase in
interest payments on the external debt. As in 1978, this deficit required a
net external funds inflow of about $1 billion, in addition to $350 million in
special grants from Saudi Arabia. Gross borrowing (excluding grants) remained
at about $1.4 billion as in 1978, requiring the use of nearly $1 billion in
financial credits. In 1980, favorable export prospects and a substantial rise
in the price of exported pbosphates suggest that the resource gap will decline
despite the impact of the most recent petroleum price increases.   However,
there will again be a substantial increase in debt service costs, so that a
gross external inflow of around $1.4 billion would be needed to fill the gap.
9.       The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints have had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity. Annual GDP growth
dropped from 7.3 percent in 1973-77 to 3.1 percent in both 1978 and 1979.
Gross fixed capital formation was reduced to DH 13.4 billion in 1978, compared
to DH 15.4 billion in 1977 (current prices). According to official estimates
it dropped further to DH 12.9 billion in 1979 but should recover slightly in
1980. The adverse impact of the retrenchment on employment has probably been
substantial. A rapid rate of employment creation had been one of the major
achievements of the 1971-77 period. Since then, the growth of employment is
estimated to have slowed significantly. To offset this, the Government has
initiated programs for municipal and regional investment and for small and
medium enterprises in industry, construction and modern services. The rate of
inflation, as measured by the cost-of-living index, dropped from 12.5 percent
a year in 1977 to 8.3 percent in 1979, as the Government continued to rely on
subsidies and controls to moderate the rate of price increases of basic
commodities. In addition, domestic inflationary pressures have been kept
under control as a result of the Moroccan Treasury borrowing policy, which has
generally been to finance the bulk of its deficit abroad in order to avoid
putting excessive pressure on the local banking system.



-4-
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
10.      Confronted with the need to overcome the large imbalance in external
payments, the aim of Government policy since 1978 has been to cut back
investment and increase domestic savings until the resource gap is reduced to
a size comparable with the level of external borrowing available. Initially,
the Government had hoped to achieve this goal by 1980. The difficulties
encountered internally in maintaining the necessary degree of financial
austerity led to some relaxation in these efforts. It is now apparent that
the rapid adjustment originally envisaged may not be feasible. The adjustment
process may instead have to be spread over several years into the 1980's.
Morocco now seems to face a period of relatively slow growth, during which the
Government would seek to further restrain current public expenditure and
improve domestic resource mobilization in order to maintain a desirable rate
of investment. In the external accounts it needs to accelerate the growth of
exports and to minimize net borrowings on commercial terms in order to
restrain the growth of debt service and maintain its creditworthiness.
11.      While the unexpectedly large increase in petroleum prices in 1979-80
has made the adjustment more difficult, Morocco should benefit over the next
few years from quite favorable market prospects for some of its major exports,
notably phosphates and phosphate-based intermediate products. Bank
projections summarized in Annex I reflect the likely outcome of a continuation
of present policies of gradual adjustment, with continued austerity but no
major structural reforms.  According to this base case scenario, the annual
rate of growth would remain in the 4.0-4.5 percent range throughout the
1980's. Efforts to increase domestic savings would bear fruit only slowly.
The ratio of gross domestic savings to GDP would rise from 9.5 percent in 1980
to 12.2 percent by 1985 and 14.6 percent by 1990 (in constant prices). Under
these curcumstances, it would not be possible to finance a level of gross
fixed investment in excess of about 15 percent of GDP (in constant prices)
throughout the 1980's and the rate of employment creation would slow down
significantly, with the level of employment rising by 2.7 percent a year,
against 3.4 percent in 1971-77. Open urban unemployment would thus rise above
10 percent in the short run. On the basis of the GDP growth rates and
investment levels envisaged in the base case scenario, it should be possible
to keep the overall growth of imports relatively moderate. This, combined
with favorable export trends (exports of goods and non-factor services are
expected to rise by more than 6 percent a year in the 1980's) should permit a
slow reduction in Morocco's external resource gap from about 14 percent of GDP
in 1979 to 8 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in 1990 (calculated in current
prices).
12.      Medium-term prospects could however be considerably more favorable if
the next few years were used to initiate a number of far-reaching policy
changes designed to overcome the structural weaknesses which are at the root
of the present disequilibrium while implementing a larger and more selective
investment program. The major policy adjustments that would have to be
undertaken in order to achieve these objectives would have to do with
deliberate and closely pursued policies with respect to agriculture, energy,



- 5 -
export priorities, savings and investment criteria. A dialogue has already
begun with the Government on the need to proceed vigorously on each one of
these issues, and the Government has recently requested Bank consideration of
a structural adjustment loan. If these structural changes were to be
introduced, preliminary projections suggest that the rate of growth of the
economy coul- go back to 6-7 percent a year, gross fixed investment could rise
to 17 percent of GDP by 1985, and the level of employment could increase at
3.4 percent a year during 1980-90, thus keeping pace with labor supply. It
would simultaneously be possible to bring the external disequilibrium under
control in a few years. Under the structural adjustment scenario, the
resource gap would go down to about 5 percent of GDP in 1985 and 2 percent by
1990 (current prices). Gross external capital requirements would rise much
more slowly than under the base case scenario.
13.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a decline in
real consumption for poorest households in Morocco. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970's, while disparities have continued to
grow, household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition; infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased since 1960, both
significantly. More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally
elected assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems
and greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have
been at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than one-third of
total budgetary spending and more than one-half of current outlays. However,
social indicators still apear to be at low levels in Morocco. This is partly
due to institutional weaknesses, including policy evaluation capacity and the
lack of a clear definition of target groups and type of services to be
provided. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and a new strategy is being prepared in the context of the
1981-85 Development Plan, which would emphasize rural development in rainfed
areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live, and
improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet basic needs at an affordable
cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being made to increase the
involvement of local communities in providing basic needs particularly for
sites and services for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these
areas, it is urgent to proceed with the implementation of these policies in
order to better meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the
budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
14.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provides for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period. From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's



- 6 -
external debt rose rapidly to an estimated $6.2 billion (disbursed only) by
December 1979. In 1979 debt service amounted to $799 million (21 percent of
total exports of goods and services). As a result of recent and projected
borrowings, debt and debt service may be expected to fluctuate around 21-22
percent in the early 1980's; it would reach 25 percent by 1985 in the case
where no structural adjustments would take place, but would remain at
approximately 21 percent under a structural adjustment program. Because of
the growing burden of debt service, external debt management has become more
restrictive and selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable,
Morocco will have to continue this policy over the next few years. Additional
commercial borrowing should be limited, and efforts should be continued to
seek loans on softer terms.
15.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $286 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and to $862
million in 1977, dropping to $434 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1979, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 8.4 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in 1977, and 8
percent in 1979. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 10 percent and 11 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
16.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 47 projects, financing
a total of $1,471.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $986 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits, totalling $50 million,
have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for $25
million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $42.5 million ($40.4 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of November 30, 1980, and notes
on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases delays in
project implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints; however, overall performance in project execution has been
improving and is satisfactory. Total disbursements as of June 30, 1980,
amounted to 63 percent of original appraisal forecasts, and 71 percent of
revised forecasts.
17.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 35 and 25 percent respectively of
total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (12 percent),
education (11 percent), roads (7 percent), tourism (5 percent), energy (4
percent) and urban development (1 percent). While limited as regards the
transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to
2.2 percent of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the
main objectives of Bank lending in the early years of Bank operations in
Morocco were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide
technical assistance, especially for project preparation, and increase
productive capacity, in order to improve the balance of payments.



- 7 -
18. While these objectives remain, over the last few years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of more concrete policy
objectives: to promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities;
to reduce imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for
the delivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve
income distribution.
19. Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers.  The Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly addresses these
objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The Loukkos project,
approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives to a less favorably
endowed region and finances investments for agricultural development, erosion
control, forestry and livestock. It should have a significant poverty impact
and address major issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely populated
but poorly endowed mountainous regions. Continued Bank support of rainfed
agriculture is expected to be provided through an extensive livestock project
in central Morocco and an integrated rural development project in the
Khemisset province, both under preparation. A fourth line of credit to CNCA
has helped provide credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is
under preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for fruit and vegetable marketing and production, as
well as from a project currently under preparation to improve tne efficiency
of the coastal fishing industry.
20. Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently, job
creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A fourth loan to Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) which has
encouraged the adoption of important sectoral policies, is being submitted
concurrently for consideration by the Executive Directors. The ninth project
in support of the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE),
planned for presentation to the Board in late FY1981, will incorporate a pilot
component for export-oriented industries and a substantial component for
small-scale industries to replenish the successful first line of credit for
this purpose approved in FY1979; this component is expected to generate
increased employment opportunities. Preparation is underway on a project to
increase the incomes of artisanal and small-scale miners in southeastern
Morocco, a region largely bypassed by previous development efforts.
21. Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A third highway project approved in FY1980
supported the Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth project would
continue support for maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan for
village electrification approved in FY1979 will help bring power to over a
hundred small towns and villages. A third water supply project, to be
presented to the Board in late FY1981, will provide access to safe water in
small towns and semi-rural areas as well as expanding a pilot component
initiated under the second project to provide credit for house connections to
low-income urban populations. In addition, a project to strengthen the
capacity of local communities to prepare and implement their own development



- 8 -
programs and provide financing for such programs through the Communal
Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being prepared. It will not only help to widen
the distribution of infrastructure and services but will also support the
Government's policy of encouraging administrative decentralization and local
participation.
22. Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, attention has also been given to expanding
basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater orientation in
primary schooling towards practical training. This would be complemented by
future projects in non-formal education and vocational training. The
Government's recent policy supporting primary health care would be tested
through a project currently being prepared as a first phase in a nationwide
program to reorganize medical and paramedical training, health education,
nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning services, especially
in rural areas.
23. In order to reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the Moroccan
economy, a project was approved in April 1980 that would contribute to the
Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of its
petroleum potential. Preparation is also underway of an Engineering Loan to
finance studies and a pilot unit to test the potential for commercial
extraction of oil from oil shale.
24. The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the public
sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings, would be
reinforced by the policy changes envisaged to be supported by a first
Structural Adjustment Loan, planned for consideration by the Executive
Directors in FY1981. These policies would address structural issues that
underly the present disequilibrium and would improve the medium-term prospects
for economic growth and balance of payments.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
25. With 41 percent of its population of 19.5 million living in urban areas,
Morocco ranks among the rapidly urbanizing countries of the Middle East and
North Africa. Historically, Morocco's urban population has concentrated in
large centers, mainly along the north western Atlantic coast. More recently,
secondary cities have also experienced rapid increases, under the pressure of
rural immigration and natural population growth. If the current urban growth
rate, estimated at 5 percent per annum, continues, the urban population will
reach 15 million, or half the total population, by the end of the 1980's.



-9-
26.      Until the last few years, public investment focussed heavily on the
modern industrial and agricultural sectors, bypassing over 80 percent of
Morccco's rural population. Despite recent Government attention to rural
infrastructure and rainfed agriculture, urban per capita income still averages
three times that of rural areas, attracting large numbers of rural migrants to
the cities in search of job opportunities.
27.      Responsibility for meeting the needs of the urban population is
shared by central and local governments. Most public services are provided
through the Provincial Delegations of the central ministries. The Ministry of
Housing and Regional Development (MHAT) has particular responsibility for
financing and implementing public housing programs and coordinating land use
planning and building standards. The municipalities are generally responsible
for providing environmental services such as sewerage, garbage collection,
street cleaning and solid waste disposal, and for maintaining the relevant
infrastructure. In major cities, water and electricity distribution is the
responsibility of local autonomous authorities ("Regies"), and in other areas
this is carried out by the national water and power agencies. Coordination
among the various public entities is the responsibility of the provincial
Governor, responsible to the Minister of Interior (MOI). Although the
municipalities were invested with wider powers for planning and organizing
municipal services under the 1976 Communal Charter, they are severely hindered
in practice by their lack of qualified staff and their dependence on the
central government for financial resources. About half of the municipal
operating budgets comes from local taxes; the remainder comes from Government
subsidies. Most capital expenditures are financed through grants from special
central government funds or through borrowing from financial institutions such
as FEC. Municipal investment has been very limited up until now, due as much
to lack of effective capacity to prepare and implement such programs as to
lack of funds. Proposals for the reform of local government finance are now
being prepared.
Urban Conditions
28.      The inability of Moroccan cities to provide serviced land and
financing for housing construction for their rapidly increasing populations
has led to the proliferation of squatter settlements, now estimated to contain
25 percent of the urban population. Since these settlements are illegal, the
cities have not provided them with basic infrastructure. Moreover, the lack of
security of tenure discourages slum residents from improving their
neighbourhoods or dwellings.
29.      Lack of access to basic utilities by large portions of the low-income
population constitutes an acute problem in most Moroccan cities, creating
serious health hazards. In 1971, the time of the latest survey, 48 percent of
urban households were without water connections, 32 percent without
electricity and 45 percent without sanitary installations. This situation has
probably worsened in recent years because of the rapid increase in the
low-income urban population. Sewage is generally discharged untreated. On the
average, provision of social services in urban centers is better than in rural
areas, but health and education facilities in low-income areas are usually
severely overcrowded and are often inaccessible to squatter settlements.



- 10 -
30.      Over 2 million people, or about 28 percent of the urban population,
have annual incomes below the 1979 Bank-defined absolute urban poverty
threshold of US$400 (DHI,516) per capita. Urban unemployment (13 percent in
1977) is estimated to be twice as high as in rural areas, and is particularly
severe among the age group of 15-24 years, many of whom are unskilled rural
migrants.   About 40 percent of the urban labor force is etxoloyed in small
artisanal and commercial enterprises, whose development is critical to
relieving urban unemployment. However, lack of adequate facilities and
working capital often prevents small labor-intensive units from growing.
Past Government Policies
31.      Despite considerable efforts by the Moroccan Government during the
past decade to provide adequate housing, public investments have mainly
benefitted middle and high-income households. The Ministry of Housing and
Regional Development (MHAT) was created in 1973 in recognition of the urgent
nature of urban problems. MHAT's early policies with regard to slums and
squatter settlements basically consisted of their replacement through urban
redevelopment and public housing programs. Because of this costly approach
and limited implementation capacity, only one-quarter of the projected
low-cost housing program was completed during the 1973-77 Plan. Two new
public agencies were created which were to improve performance during the
1978-80 Plan: the National Fund for Land Purchase and Infrastructure (FNAET),
intended to purchase land and develop it for low-cost housing construction,
and the Regional Planning and Construction Agencies (ERAC), for the
construction of middle-income housing. However, due to financial and
managerial constraints as well as high unit costs, these agencies fell far
short of their program targets. In addition, inefficient land-use, costly
design and infrastructure standards as well as restrictive lending criteria
for housing finance, put the serviced plots and social housing units beyond
the reach of the low-income groups.
32.      Similarly, because of their limited financial and staff resources,
cost recovery policies and regulations regarding squatter settlements,
municipalities and public utility agencies have in the past primarily extended
their services to central and higher-income peripheral areas. In addition,
poor management and organization of municipal services have resulted in
inefficient delivery systems and high unit costs. The high cost of initial
connections to basic utilities has further constrained access to these
facilities by the urban poor.
New Policy Responses and Bank Strategy
33.      Conscious of the shortcomings of past policies, the Moroccan
Government has adopted a two-pronged approach to rapid urbanization. On the
one hand, administrative and economic decentralization has been promoted, with
a view to improving infrastructure, services and employment in secondary
cities and small towns and thus deflect migration away from the heavily
congested cities of Casablanca and Rabat-Sale to communities where urban
growth may be more manageable. The Bank has supported these efforts through



- 11 -
projects for village electrification and rural education and is planning
projects for water supply in secondary centers and rural areas and for local
community development (paras. 21-22).
34.      On the other hand, the Government has introduced new policies
designed to integrate existing slums and squatter areas into t,,e cities and
develop more cost-effective methods of meeting their needs for shelter and
basic services. This new approach capitalizes on existing resources by
upgrading slum areas, providing low-income households with affordable serviced
sites for self-help housing construction and increasing employment
opportunities for the urban poor. The Rabat Urban Development Project (Loan
1528-MOR) was instrumental in achieving this policy breakthrough. This new
approach, which will be continued under the new Five-Year Plan, has been
reflected in similar projects recently launched in Tangiers and Casablanca,
the latter financed through a loan guarantee program of the U.S. Agency for
International Development. The Government has also prepared a program for
upgrading infrastructure in small squatter areas ("bidonvilles moyens")
throughout the country, and is studying possible reforms of the housing
finance system.
35.      The Bank has supported a pilot program to provide credit for
individual house connections to the water supply system in low income urban
areas (Loan 1724-MOR). The Third Water Supply Project would help extend this
program to all Moroccan cities. The Bank has also financed the provision of
credit to labor-intensive small-scale industries (Loan 1687-MOR). The
replenishment of this loan, expected in late FY1981, would generate increased
employment both in large urban centers and secondary cities and in particular,
would complement the development of serviced industrial land in the project
zones financed under the proposed Second Urban Project (paras. 20-21).
The First Urban Project
36.      The Rabat Urban Development Project, approved in February 1978,
provides financial assistance to the Government for carrying out an innovative
approach to the problem of urban poverty in three major squatter areas of the
capital city, comprising some 45 percent of its total slum population. The
project includes the upgrading of infrastructure and social services, the
development of serviced sites to accommodate households displaced because of
project construction works, and the implementation of a program to create
additional job opportunities through serviced land for small-scale industries,
vocational training and credit. The project introduced reductions in
infrastructure standards to ensure affordability to the lowest income groups,
the provision of long-term financing so that slum dwellers could acquire
secure title to their plots, and cost recovery to permit replicability. A
special Slum Upgrading Unit was set up within MHAT to monitor the impact of
the project and to prepare similar projects in other cities.



- 12 -
37.      The project has suffered initial delays in execution.  Start-up of
the infrastructure works was affected by delays in contract awards, and
problems were also encountered in the identification of beneficiaries of the
slum upgrading component and in completing the selection of beneficiaries of
the sites and services component. These difficulties, combined with slow
payments to contractors, have caused a considerable lag in disbursement of the
Bank loan (as of November 30, 1980, only $1.4 million of the $18 million loan
was disbursed, compared to an appraisal estimate of $15.2 million). Apart
from the innovative nature of the project, the main sources of the delays
outlined above have been inadequate staffing of the project unit, limited
participation of local government in project implementation and inadequate
coordination among the various implementing agencies. Measures are now being
taken to resolve the above difficulties by increasing the role of the Rabat
Governorate in supervising project execution, including secondment of staff to
the project unit. To avoid these problems in the proposed project, the
municipal councils and the provincial Governors of the cities concerned, have
been involved in project preparation; in addition, an important feature of the
project design is a mechanism for coordinating the implementation of the
various project components through these Governors (para 53).
38. The socio-economic problems experienced by the low-income families in
urban areas obviously extend to major Moroccan cities other than Rabat.
Hence, based on the lessons being learned from the First Project, it would
appear advantageous to begin coping with those problems in other urban areas.
Since the cities of Meknes and Kenitra contain the largest squatter
settlements outside of Casablanca, combined with high immigration rates and
housing shortages, the Government suggested that these two cities be the focus
of the proposed project.
39.      Meknes.  The fifth largest city, Meknes has a population of 360,000
which is projected to grow at 4.1 percent annually over the next five years.
This implies a yearly increase of about 15,000 persons, of whom nearly 30
percent will be below the urban poverty threshold. About a third of the
population in the city does not have access to municipal services and
infrastructure facilities. New housing construction totalled only half the
growth in households over the last decade. The deteriorating housing supply
has led to a rapid growtb of squatter settlements, which account for 20
percent of the city's population, or 70,000 persons.
40.      Kenitra.  Kenitra is the seventh largest city with a population of
about 215,000, projected to grow at 4.6 percent per annum over the next five
years. This implies an increase in population of 10,000 persons each year, of
whom over 20 percent are expected to be below the urban poverty threshold. It
is estimated that 40 percent of the population does not have access to
municipal services and infrastructure facilities and that 65,000 people (30
percent of the city's population) live in squatter areas. Housing output has
amounted to less than two-thirds of the growth in demand.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Background
41.      The proposed project would continue Bank support for the development
of a policy framework for urbanization and for the design of low-cost,
replicable programs to provide shelter, basic services and employment to
low-income urban families. The project also aims to further strengthen the
capacity of the central and local governments to prepare and implement such
programs, confirm the appropriateness of the new policy approach and extend
the experience gained under the First Urban Project in Rabat to the secondary
cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Although the innovations introduced under the
First Project have not yet been fully tested, it is important to maintain the
policy momentum generated by the Rabat project and to demonstrate the
applicability of the new approach to institutional and technical conditions in
other Moroccan cities, with a view to building up a solid body of experience
with this kind of project in Morocco. The design of the Second Project
includes a number of new elements growing out of the Rabat experience:
improved affordability, by reducing land-use and infrastructure standards; a
larger-scale program for sites and services, in order to address the shelter
needs resulting from future urban growth and thus avoid the expansion of
squatter settlements; attention to the problems of urban management as key to
increased involvement of local governments in planning and executing urban
projects; the creation of mechanisms for better coordination of integrated
multi-sectoral programs; and a greater reflection of the architectural and
urban design traditions of the project cities.
42.      The project was identified in May 1978 and prepared by the Government
with the assistance of consultants and Bank missions through 1979. It was
appraised in April 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
November 1980; the leader of the Moroccan negotiating team was Mr. Hassan
Belkoura of the Prime Minister's office. The main features of the project are
outlined in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report; a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet, Annex III, is also attached. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3118-MOR dated September 30, 1980) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
43.      The Second Urban Project will: (a) help meet current and future
demand for low-cost shelter and basic services in the project cities; (b)
increase employment opportunities for low-income urban dwellers, by promoting
the establishment of business activities within the project zones; and (c)
improve the management and delivery of municipal services.
Project Description
44.     The proposed  project would consist of the following components:
(i) Slum upgrading: provision of secure land tenure as well as basic
infrastructure and services to 81,500 residents of squatter settlements in
Meknes and Kenitra;



- 14 -
(ii) Sites and services: development of 6,400 serviced residential plots
in Meknes and Kenitra;
(iii) Credit for housing improvement: provision of loans for building
materials, for self-help housing construction;
(iv) Community facilities: construction of primary schools, dispensaries
and youth centers in the project zones;
(v) Employment generation: development of serviced land within the
project zones for the establishment of business activities;
(vi) Municipal services: provision of facilities, equipment and technical
assistance for expanded delivery of municipal services in the project cities;
(vii) Studies: financing of studies to prepare new urban development
projects.
45.      Slum upgrading. The squatter settlements of Bordj Moulay Omar and
Sidi Baba in Meknes (43,000 inhabitants) and Saknia in Kenitra (38,500
inhabitants), comprise about 60 percent of the squatter populations of the two
cities, and cover 130 hectares. Forty-eight and 44 percent, respectively, of
their populations have incomes below the urban poverty threshold; the median
monthly income per household is about US$200 (DH 760), and the slums exhibit
characteristics of the worst housing conditions in Morocco. The project would
provide secure land tenure to residents by offering them the possibility of
acquiring their plots through long-term lease-purchase financing. Some 1,500
infill plots would also be developed, with priority for acquisition given to
200 families to be relocated due to project works. Access roads, water and
sewerage facilities, and electricity networks would be improved or installed,
with optional individual connections. Administrative offices for project
management will be located in the project zones.
46.      Sites and services. About 3,760 and 2,640 serviced plots will be
developed for sale to the urban poor on 46 ha. and 26 ha. sites adjacent to
the squatter settlements in Meknes and Kenitra, respectively. Plot sizes range
between 60m2 and 100m2,and several levels of on-plot housing development
will be available, to maximize affordability to lower income groups. All plots
would have individual water and sewer connections provided up to the plot
boundary. The electricity network would permit optional individual
connections. Approximately 60 percent of the plots would be sold with some
form of core unit. Some of the larger plots with vehicular access could
develop commercial frontages, which would be reflected in higher plot charges.
Land use and building regulations for the plots would be submitted to the Bank
for approval by December 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10).
47.      Credit for housing improvement.  Loans would be provided to the
beneficiaries of the slum upgrading and the sites and services programs, for
the purchase of building materials to improve their houses or build on the
serviced plots. This credit can also be used by beneficiaries to build or



- 15 -
improve commercial facilities and to improve pedestrian pathways in the
project zones. It is expected that about 7,000 households in the slum
upgrading areas and about 85 percent or 5,450 households settling in the sites
and services areas, would take advantage of this option.
48.      Community facilities.  Primary education and basic health services in
the project zones would be brought up to the average level currently
prevailing in the project cities, entailing the construction of 6 primary
schools and 3 dispensaries, and the extension of an existing primary school.
In addition, a youth center would be built in each site and service area.
49.      Employment generation. A survey of small-scale enterprises in the
project cities by the Industrial Development Office (ODI) indicated
considerable demand for serviced land for the creation or expansion of these
activities. A small business zone of 6 ha. with basic infrastructure would be
established adjacent to the project site in Kenitra, where it is estimated
that 45 medium and small-scale enterprises would purchase land, employing
about 1,500 of the residents. Four areas totalling 2.5 ha. within the project
zone in Meknes would be developed for the installation of about 80 small
businesses, creating approximately 770 job opportunities. Selection criteria
for the enterprises were agreed during negotiations to be the same as for the
Small-Scale Industries Program, in order to facilitate access by such
enterprises to the credit for investment and working capital provided through
this program, which has been supported by the Bank (Loan 1687-MOR). Land use
and building regulations will be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1981
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.10). Total investment per job excluding land is
expected to average $3,570 (DH 13,560). The Second Project would improve on
the administrative arrangements for promoting business development used under
the First Project by financing 36 man-months of technical assistance from ODI
to MHAT to assist in promoting the sale of land for business activities in the
project areas (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(d)), for which terms of reference
would be submitted to the Bank for review and comments by September 30, 1981.
50.       Municipal services.  A municipal depot would be constructed in each
city to centralize and reorganize the activities of the municipal public works
department. Preliminary engineering studies for the depot are being
completed. More efficient and expanded service delivery would be facilitated
by the purchase of new equipment and the provision of qualified professional
staff (Loan Agreement, Section 3.12). Technical assistance would be provided
to improve the organization of the tax and accounting departments of the
municipality of Meknes (8 man-months), and to prepare a sewerage master plan
for Kenitra (60 man-months). This component was carefully tailored to the
technical and financial capacity of the project municipalities.
51.      Studies.  The Government has requested financing for the studies
needed for the preparation of new projects aimed at alleviating urban
poverty. The Government would consult with the Bank prior to undertaking
these studies (Loan Agreement Section 3.16) and it is expected that the
detailed content of the studies would be defined during a comprehensive sector
review of urban and regional development policies, including an evaluation of
the experience to date of the first and second Bank-financed urban development
projects, to be carried out in late 1981.



- 16 -
Project Implementation
52.      Project construction is planned over a four-and-a-half year period,
with an additional year for completing disbursements of the building materials
loans to project beneficiaries. Land acquisition is under way and the
Government has already initiated the relevant expropriation measures (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05). Final design and bidding documents for the first
year's infrastructure works are being completed.
53.      In view of the multi-sectoral nature of the proposed project, the
initial difficulties experienced by the First Urban Project (para. 37) and the
need for liaison between the central government, responsible for overall
policy, budgetary allocations and project monitoring, and the local
institutions which would actually implement the project, specific mechanisms
for project coordination have been created. The Interministerial Project
Coordinating Committee, set up at the central level under the First Urban
Project, would have a local counterpart Project Steering Committee in each
city, composed of representatives of each implementing agency and chaired by
the provincial Governor. In addition, each Steering Committee would have a
Permanent Unit which would coordinate and monitor the implementation of the
project components, and prepare progress reports and consolidated project
accounts for the Bank. Its full-time technical staff, including an
experienced engineer and an accountant, would be attached to the Governor's
office (Loan Agreement, Section 3.12 and Schedule 5, Part B). The
establishment and staffing of the Permanent Units would be a condition of
disbursement for all expenditures in the relevant city (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07 and Schedule 1, para. 4(a)).
54.      Implementation of the slum upgrading, sites and services and
employment generation programs would be carried out under the supervision of
the Provincial Delegations of the Ministry of Housing (DRHAT) with assistance
from the Slum Upgrading Unit within the Housing Department of MHAT whose staff
will be reinforced to handle the additional responsibilities implied under the
Second Project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)), and from ODI. In view of
the increase in the activities of the DRHATs implied by the project, a major
reorganization is under way. A new Project Technical Unit (PTU) has already
been established within each DRHAT to manage the execution of the physical
works, most of which will be carried out by private contractors with the
assistance of local consultants (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). The
construction and operation of project works relating to water and electricity
will be carried out by the public utility authorities of Meknes and Kenitra
under contracts with MHAT.  The PTU manager has already been appointed for
each city and additional staff would include two engineers, one architect, one
accountant and para-professional and support staff, for each PTU. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations regarding the appointment of the PTU
professional staff, according to an agreed schedule (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07 and Schedule 5, Part C). All legal, financial and social aspects of the
project, including selection of and assistance to the beneficiaries of the
shelter and small scale enterprise components, would be handled by the
existing Housing Bureaus within each DRHAT. These tasks have proven to be the
most sensitive and difficult under the first project, and additional
professional and paraprofessional staff will be required for each Housing
Bureau, including at least an accountant and a lawyer. Assurances were
obtained during negotiatons



- 17 -
regarding the recruitment of this staff, according to an agreed schedule (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.07 and Schedule 5, Part C). MHAT would also be
responsible for supervising execution of the studies for the preparation of
new urban projects.
55.      The municipalities of Meknes and Kenitra will implement the municipal
services component as well as assume responsibility for the operatXon and
maintenance of the project infrastructure once completed, including the new
municipal facilities. The Municipal Councils have approved the investment
programs to be implemented under the project and reserved the lands required
for the construction of the Central Municipal Depots. In order to carry out
these responsibilities, the professional staff of the two municipalities would
be strengthened (Loan Agreement, Section 3.12 and Schedule 5, Part G)).
Technical assistance would be provided for the reorganization of the tax and
accounting system of Meknes and for the preparation of the sewerage master
plan in Kenitra, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b) and (c)).
56.      The Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP), a fully government-owned bank,
would be responsible for recovering residential and industrial plot charges on
behalf of the Government and providing credit for building materials, through
branch offices to be established in the project zones by June 30, 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.13). BCP would receive a fee for its administrative
expenses in connection with the recovery of plot charges, to be incorporated
into the interest rates charged to beneficiaries. It would also earn a spread
on the building materials loans.
57.      The Ministries of Education (MEN), Public Health (MSP) and Youth
(MJS) would construct and operate the relevant community facilities and
reimburse MHAT for the costs of the serviced land.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
58.      The total cost of the project including cost of land, taxes and
contingencies is estimated at $81.1 million, of which $20.6 million or
approximately 25 percent represents the foreign exchange component. Taxes are
estimated at $8 million on local costs. Estimated costs for civil works are
based on preliminary engineering studies and land prices as appraised by the
State Property Commission ("Service Des Domaines"). Estimated costs for
vehicles, equipment and building materials are based on the latest quotations
from suppliers. Costs for foreign consultant services (totalling 106
man-months) are estimated at $8,000 per average man-month. Costs of local
professional services are estimated at an average of $4,000 per man-month.
The cost estimates include provision for physical contingencies of 10 percent
on all civil works, equipment and consultant services but not on the building
materials loans, nor on the studies for preparing new urban projects. Rates
applied for price contingencies are 10 percent in 1980, 9 percent in 1981, and
8 percent thereafter. Total contingencies amount to 29 percent of the
estimated base cost.
59.      The proposed Bank loan of $36 million would have a maturity of 17
years including 4 years of grace. It would finance approximately 50 percent
of the total project cost, net of taxes. This would cover 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs and finance about $15.4 million of the project's local



- 18 -
currency costs, which is by Morocco's current tight external payments
position. The remaining 50 percent of project costs will be financed by the
Government through budget appropriations. The Government will assume the
foreign exchange risk.
60.      The Bank loan proceeds, supplemented by counterpart funds, would be
allocated by the Government to the project implementing agencies in the
following manner:
(a) in the form of budgetary allocations totalling $28.3 million to MHAT,
MEN, MSP and MJS for the implementation of their respective components,
including the off-site infrastructure which will be handed over to the
Municipalities upon completion (see para. 65);
(b) in the form of advances of $5.1 million to BCP for providing building
materials loans to project beneficiaries. These advances would be repaid to
the Treasury as repayments from beneficiaries fall due (see para.62); and
(c) in the form of loans to the municipalities of Meknes and Kenitra
totalling $2.6 million for financing the extenditures related to the municipal
services component. The loan would be made on the same terms as the Bank loan
to the Government (see para. 65).
Cost Recovery and Selection of Beneficiaries
61.      Overall, project costs related to land acquisition, site preparation,
on-site infrastructure, on-plot development, project administration buildings,
design and supervision, as well as interest during construction (together 57
percent of total project costs), would be fully recovered with interest
through down payments and monthly charges for residential and business plots,
to be collected by BCP on behalf of the Ministry of Finance (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.08). Plots with commercial potential in the sites and services
areas would be sold at prices above cost, and the surplus would be used as a
cross-subsidy for plot prices in the slum upgrading areas. Residential plots
in the sites and service areas would be sold at cost. Building materials
loans, representing 18 percent of total costs, would be repaid with interest
by the relevant beneficiaries.
62.      The costs for the residential plots would be repaid by beneficiaries
at an interest rate of 7 percent over a period of 20 years. Existing plots in
slum upgrading areas would receive 100 percent financing; a down payment of 10
percent would be required for plots in the sites and services area and for
infill plots in the upgraded slum areas. Loans for building materials would
be repaid at an interest rate of 7 percent over a period of 10 years. Costs
for the business plots would be repaid at an interest rate of 10 percent over
a period of 10 years; a down payment of 20 percent would also be required.
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 (d)). Prospective entrepreneurs would be given
the option of acquiring business plots for cash; it is expected that about
half would take up this option. The proposed interest rates for residential
land and building materials loans are comparable to interest rates currently
charged for social housing loans (6-7 percent), beneficiaries of which are
generally lower middle-income groups. Interest rates for the business plots
are comparable with those presently charged by commercial banks for industrial
projects in Morocco. Inflation is projected to be 12 percent in 1980,
declining to 8 percent in 1982.



- 19 -
63.      In order to prevent speculative sales, plot allottees would be given
a lease-purchase contract in exchange for their monthly payments. Resale
would not be permitted for 5 years and then only upon satisfactory payment
performance (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 (d) (ii), Part C). Draft
lease-purcbase contracts for residential plots were reviewed during
negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.14). It was agreed during
negotiations that beneficiaries of business plots would be permitted to sell
their plots only after having built the relevant facility (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06 (d) (ii) Part D). Terms and conditions for plot charges and
repayment of building materials loans (para. 61) and arrangements for
collection of payments would be reflected in administrative agreements between
the Government and BCP which were reviewed during negotiations and signature
would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01 and 6.02).
64.      A substantial portion of low-income dwellers in the project cities
would be able to participate in the proposed project. Existing plots in the
slum upgrading areas would be affordable to 95 percent of the residents, with
monthly payments representing about 10 percent of household incomes.
Households unable to afford the payments required for their present plots
would be permitted to subdivide, to a minimum size of 40m2. Monthly
payments for infill plots would represent about 20 percent of household
incomes; however, relocated families would pay a lower price for the plots.
Surveys indicated that beneficiaries would be prepared to pay 20-25 percent of
their monthly income for housing. On this basis, plots in the sites and
services areas, including core units, would be affordable to all but the
lowest 15 percent of the urban population of Meknes and Kenitra. The 10
percent down payment would not exceed 3 months' average income and corresponds
to the amount that households declared they would be willing to contribute. An
understanding was reached during negotiations concerniing criteria (including
income ceilings) and procedures for selection of beneficiaries (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.11). The surveys and cadastral work needed for the
demarcation of plot boundaries would be started by June 30, 1981 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.09).
65.      The municipalities would incur the costs of the construction of
off-site infrastructure carried out by MHAT on their behalf and of the
municipal services component (9 percent of total costs). These would be
repaid to the Government at the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
Draft agreements between the Government and the municipalities were reviewed
during negotiations and their signature is a condition of loan disbursement
for relevant project components (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 (a) and (b) and
Schedule 1, para. 4(b) and (c)). The costs related to the construction of the
community facilities (16 percent of total costs) would not be directly
recovered but borne by the Government.
Procurement
66.      Contracts for civil works total about $40 million.  Due to the
labor-intensive nature and the relatively small size of most individual
construction works, it is expected that only local contractors or
international contractors locally established will bid on these civil works.
Consequently, procurement would be on the basis of locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank and which do
not exclude international contractors



- 20 -
Construction of water and electricity facilities would be carried out by the
local public utility authorities, which have a monopoly on such works, and
would be charged at cost plus a fee for professional services instead of their
more expensive normal billing procedures. Signature of agreements between
MHAT and the utility authorities confirming these arrangements would be a
condition of disbursement for relevant components (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06 (c) and Schedule 1, para. 4(d) and (e)). Procurement of equipment,
totalling about $3.5 million, would be carried out by the relevant
implementing agencies. MHAT would be responsible for procurement of the
equipment used by the Permanent Unit. All contracts for goods above $75,000
would be awarded through international competitive bidding, in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Contracts for equipment and furniture for the community
facilities (totalling less than $0.5 million) will be procured as part of bulk
contracts by the relevant ministries according to procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Other contracts would be awarded according to local competitive
bidding. In evaluating international bids for equipment contracts, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent of the CIF
price of competing goods or the prevailing level of customs duties, whichever
is lower. Consultant and advisory services totalling 106 man-months and which
would cost about $3.7 million, would be procured by the relevant agencies
according to terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02).
Disbursement
67.      Disbursements of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be made over the
period July 1, 1981-June 30, 1986, on the following basis: (a) 55 percent of
expenditures for civil works; (b) 35 percent of building materials loans
disbursed by BCP; (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported
equipment and 75 percent of the expenditures for goods procured locally; and
(d) 60 percent of expenditures for consultants and advisory services.
Retroactive financing will be provided to cover expenditures for the
preparation of final design carried out after project appraisal in April 1980,
for an amount not exceeding $800,000 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(f)).
Project Benefits and Risks
68.      The economic rate of return (ERR) for the slum upgrading, sites and
services building materials loans and community facilities components which
together represent about 93 percent of total project cost, is estimated at 18
percent. The evaluation of benefits for the upgrading and sites and services
programs is based on estimates of imputed rental values for housing and market
sale prices for serviced plots. Difficulties in the guantification of benefits
for the employment generation and municipal services components prevented a
reliable computation of the ERR for these components. However, it is estimated
that the small-scale enterprises which would locate in the project-financed
serviced land, would employ about 2,270 persons. In addition, project
construction works would provide employment to at least 1,000 residents of the
upgrading areas. The creation of the central municipal depots and provision of
equipment would increase the operating efficiency of the municipal public
works departments, reducing current operating costs by 20 percent and freeing
staff to expand the delivery of municipal services to previously neglected
areas.



- 21 -
69.      Of the total population to benefit directly from the project, about
39,200 people in Meknes and 26,400 in Kenitra have incomes below the
Bank-defined urban poverty threshold. These represent about 39 percent and 57
percent of the urban poor in the two cities. Improved municipal services would
benefit about 70 percent of the urban poor in the project cities. Reduced
design, infrastructure and land-use standards improve affordability and ensure
cost recovery, maximizing replicability of the project in other Moroccan
cities. Project impact would be monitored by MHAT's Slum Upgrading Unit.
70.      Technical risks have been minimized by thorough project preparation;
nonetheless the innovative nature of the proposed programs may entail certain
risks, particularly in view of the limited implementation experience to date
under the First Urban Project. Lack of managerial and technical staff could
delay project implementation, resulting in substantial cost overruns. This
risk has been reduced by providing gualified staff to the Permanent Units and
project municipalities, by employing consultants for the preparation of final
design and bidding documents as well as for construction supervision and
studies, and by requiring assurances regarding the staffing of the provincial
delegations of MHAT (paras. 53, 54, 55). The pressure of demand for housing
could lead to the displacement of intended project beneficiaries by
higher-income groups. This risk has been minimized by establishing precise
criteria and procedures for beneficiary selection (para. 64). Moreover, the
lower building standards should reduce the attractiveness of the site to
middle-income groups. Cost recovery under the project may be hampered by the
limited experience of both beneficiaries and Government with this kind of
collection procedure. This risk should be reduced by the careful affordability
analysis carried out during project preparation to ensure accessibility by the
urban poor and by ensuring that particular attention be given to these
problems by BCP and the Housing Bureaus in each project cicy.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of Morocco
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.      Among the features of the Loan Agreement which are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following features are of
special interest:
(a) Signature of agreements between the Borrower and BCP which are
satisfactory to the Bank, concerning the terms and conditions for
industrial and residential plot charges and repayment of building
materials loans, is an additional condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01 and 6.02).
(b) Special conditions of disbursement against related expenditures are:
(i) Tne Government shall have established and staffed the Permanent
Unit associated with the Project Steering Committee in each project
city, as a condition of disbursement for all components in the
relevant city (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.07 and Schedule 1, para.
4(a));



- 22 -
(ii) The Government shall have entered into agreements with the
municipalities concerning the terms and conditions for repayment by
the municipalities of the costs relating to the off-site
infrastructure and the municipal services component (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06(a) and (b) and Schedule 1, para. 4(b) and
(c)); and
(iii) MHAT shall have entered into agreements with the local public
utility authorities (RADEM and RAK), concerning the execution of
and charges for civil works and equipment relating to water and
electricity (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c) and Schedule 1, para.
4(d) and (e)).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 31, 1980
Washington, D.C.



23 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  1  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEaGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM-.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            447.0/e                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     203.4 /.c                            MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         NORTH FAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 190.0        300.0     670.0                698.2                  1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     148.0       180.0     285.0                545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     11.6        15.0      18.9                    .                       .
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3        34.6       39.3                 45.7                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        70.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       26.0        34.0      42.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. 10. AGRICULTURAL LAND     59.0        76.0      93.0                 598.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.0        47.5      46.5                 44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         53.0        48.3      50.1                 52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         4.2       3.4                  3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.5        2.9                  2.6                     2.7
URBAN                              6.4         4.2       4.6                   4.5                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     52.0        47.0       45.0                 41.6                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0         17.0      13.0                 13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4jd       3.4        3.2                  2.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         1.0       5.4                  16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          99.0        98.0      79.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0       102.0     105.0                 103.6                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0        66.0      67.0                  69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        13.0      13.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     30.0        22.0       17.0                 17.5                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0        52.0      55.0                  54.4                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 ..          ..        ..                   ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        51.0      55.0                  62.5                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        92.0     100.0                  82.9                    80.4
RURAL                               ..        28.0      25.0                  45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        29.0        ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..        75.0        ..                   ..                     79.4
RURAL                               ..         4.0        ..                   ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9400.0/d   12650.0   10136.0                4688.7                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2820.0    1826.0                1751.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            626.0       688.0     774. 0               635.5                    480.3
URBAN                               ..       460.0
RURAL                               ..      2980.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        15.5      16.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.8         5.5
URBAN                              4.3         4.9
RURAL                              5.1         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.2         2.4
URBAN                              2.1         2.1        ..
RURAL                              2.3         2.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             76.0/e
URBAN                             85. 47w     68.4      65.0
RURAL                             31.0/e        ..        ..



-244 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MDROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                        REFEBNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
iDDLE INCOHE
1OST RECENT         9DRTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AlSERICA 6 CARI3E1AN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    MOTAL                47.0         52.0      68.0                 76.4                   ".7
MALE                 67.0        67.0      86.0                92.2                    101.0
FEhALE               27.0        36.0      50.0                 59.9                   99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  5.0        13.0      17.0                33.3                    34.4
MfALE                 7.0        18.0      21.0                41.9                    33.5
ENALE                 2.0         7.0      12.0                24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   ..         2.0       3.0                  9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          43.0        34.0      40.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                          ..        20.0      21.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       14.0        21.0      28.0                 39.7                    76.3
CONSUHPTIOY
PASSENGER CARS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       11.0        15.0      19.6                 15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       46.0        60.0      83.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS FER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.4        12.0      29.0                 29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
SdOUSAND POPULATION                 22.0        16.0     21.0                 22.2                    63.3
CINEnA ASNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0         ..        1. 8                2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FCRCE (THOUSANDS)    3369.7      3951.7   4954.8
TEKrLE  (PERCENT)                 10.6        15.2      16.0                 9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.0       56.9      53.0                 47.0                    37.1
DUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.8        17.4      20.0                 23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              29.0        26.4      26.1                 26.1                    31.5
MALE                                52.1        45.2      44.4                47.4                    48.9
FEMALE                               5.9         7.5       7.9                 4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             2.0         1.9        1.9                 1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
nIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f     20.0f .O
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEZOLDS  43.3f      49.Of       .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.O/f      4.0/f       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0Lf      12.0/f     .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US  PER CAPITA)
URBAN                            107.0       157.0    389.0                262.5
RURAL                            66.0        101.0    238.0                140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    242.0                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      157.0               122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                            51.0        38.0      28.0                 22.1
RURAL                            49.0        45.0      45.0                 33.1
Not available
INot applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Excludes Morocian provinces in V. Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick buildings only; /f Consumption expenditures
of households.
April. 1980



- 25                                                 ~~~~~ANNEX T
25                                              ~~~~~Page 3 of 6
Chfftlhh  Of SCIAL_f$Cl
viel> -fh bel  dat   e    rs et. -ocen--aeI,,li,   jsdond th    os   utoittve   and rls   e    thadal   esede-sre-es   o   eI
se b  sefeveprahl -    ibenas  ofth,t-  t      seadadi re-,d -a  n   nsc cnet   isdb   ifrn    oretti   tol ea dn the l da The,                                 data era,Itore
vi oe.o sabjee s ceossen   eacee  dor ''Capital isepi acCiiEnynrtrs' troePah-re ''iiddle 1Isnon.e here)  Afiri ta ad Middil en' Is" thesenb . heaefoese
heat  ha-1 lf ath  eIoeccstaet   has data  far that 1,dicast -ticeth                                -ier ge at coneie  eeI  the irdireesh -depnsi           esec-e,h  Use
data as.   nnteifr,cuisms   eesrie.erlte    regna   e d                                       -o-eno  to one-ri-   nfr she anbfeer
of oetdatoatesine n__o  the e-snseydenddeatseance
PTal  -loa  sefece acs    nri-sog ladJ             re-ed.e. an.eter.                                 is Loss-  es- -  ,   ornoeeso                 s   foonrsto -
tee orvs. paearna  sarbe   and iotohengardes  an totie  taoe; tif dat             sate  ed femle giesastejl_es ifreetlattreresleea  taciea en nrsee-
:92,  nd  n-lldat-                                                                          shli eto cener-dlastt-sareeneeltshseb, pee-neni  staffed,,
sod?E  CAPIuon   ,eS$nem   e-esel ga Wn.yro,neer   se-               a - eahks-    elan-             cesserst-        -pe-ecn lysafdhBaeydiobeh      elotassat
soivspt  i-  ilogars   t cai eeinlentper  spis; iIC,  971  andtif                 etese,  etdtfa,ets.  eboh atertn-ptien6soandedsttnhstirrnid
GN~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et -inlude IIntals  dHsopat cg_eal ad setelieni.d hosponats ,otros
Neat  MPuTIIn,PE  CAfId- Ae feAI-Ios-no   uy1   it   91    n  lif,utsis.  pee ftssivl Cd -Inel  nben   dtsotss   rdshn
"etI   PPelaeon(iecetif-saiE-Raioetbleitotaalpesist
d  na.et       ssn    yae  n   e   ndternrtle    e  tasili p97 rae,                               tehtenl   e    tnsla    opn
leat,  ctfeele  if   esecaso   sthitetg  a  7.1  eas,   he   at-     delideg f, eepatel.) Nih ell _egsetis e.  _npedats- strac -ires an
fetltysoese oteo          ee  Asd pas fetly     paeitpefemse                       inoea  tflederfoit  _penes  at tsltgf                  joa,i     eo,ea   va 
tine Sloth  rte  Is e~sei  o she death  ase, act 9ais   the ate  nsesesare  re-
saint eantass.  thi  is asbiad anty seer fertiity 197se  tetdn 197           Ptfantt tnda-de-tRatio
esiastnose-ai  efsete'inee   obrerlest tion  of  hapapslee                                peenr e-P has1dii-ege     l  h pa  -b-tes  etral bed.,      bttenaed6l
cateya   11,adsert  a   eln    tfetle    sstarpeeIer  hat atjsstet  a  difeen   l-engh   af petwll mac  etscei-s; ta
earn  leeeL                                                  -~~~Ib.   r    ~ f_,  ..     dt  HO SIoNG ee    iSsttntasatstealetmyeoe   i                               cs
, earnss..ttateo   1960ultlos is enacted..                                                     A-hlea   hnsttaet    esgte  isesn  papti  seeh,1   ......  ...chan  th  tita   schoa  age
fee  a, Io. -lid-ear   epo -tie    a  sqoereti   ti-aerter flat bhedeae   198 atpArdsgna,voetal  athj      -i..          i.       teee    rann          esrais   farp
P."lgtheir -Ite'ity  Id f.ltility rssallyof f  tnt7_yAr  at age;" Ideerrespeedeye Il bee es a.re  dnedal
ter  n. .b.aginsiesby    lot-C_aa   saenta    giseells                                              nldathe .i -      j                                                           _
aely                                                                                                           f.setea   enr tletn(ecn   fseeay   -laeinflsiot
tear papotttass  fantill-hI,   960-fl.  sd lifi-Pi                                      soellenp -ettec _ferris.
tahasfr191h,  il-f   ad17-f.aayrnaaeatsstgtl  peyisle   ag_ed 15yasanb                                                                                                n
Cedelis, tase  fy tshosa i-e  1sas1  lie   Scetfins  pee -henanb a  m~it-year                ..      .E_ret  (ee                     .lig)-tl..le,.dr. 
C  .rat   -sti y Rat  (oehsea         enldat hs  eeshosetgtdst-ea                              Pasege  Casfe   haes.e..ln   -Psegrorseses    at
Irnsepta te Reederg    en fe ath dasisne   eanb at., wIl  hYearIta                                slte Iymhls
toi -tjstes  otsliad  fin-esanse   afa,o11,17C  aud tpAll                                     brCeeteaies s  central~ psthi  peerthasityed  ofil paps-tie-;entadasonl
Etosils- Oaseica-fees tytroteat"iI Pars  -d as1f-i.  therseoae  at s_tee                   casetes, abelish-d ticeesWelag -g   eptil
wheans   t If'child-ttn   age1  lllyesiabehseabdes-tohrol. detate,  len                       teeetrslreh satooitf-ytecsra eehadntt
alt earned enern inn~~~~~e age geaop.                                         genteel pabite per rhasased  papsittian; esslatna  stilteeted TI reeetseArsIt   Elll1Ie,.l l
the r.plate-  t1-1  f Iet  _Prld,en,eetetrsielasfee tasneteorlsnss)-  haeshh- hageleols
voncleoa y'           ase    Cno         iileee   pr.limary gnt eg.t   cagrrse                 n  h   dail'!If1 i        - appar  as  Please  fear  ele e a  ta..tg     fl
letet  fesar  aih   reaiba   cttsttessrens   eg.onfe   nt                             Ciea  eaelAePt'e  ear Capl Iita pe   ea-aede  teenbra
tee see       0 enldt. d aggegace pr jdateo ofeah   asesIsbaeda
yer  le-easei hnlrisCaoo.ersirmrtf-Cnoa   fers                                                   andi.bll  ot         g.
esoyes- aeeo  net-i-  fon neacpie -aTh.lybta  is.  e iantay peeif capeta                    meltJ- dP-OlCRf.
raot,aei-neiore. fe  upiseslth.m.                                        ed   ees               re  tre    n  seemp-layed ese -ee laig               n    eie -s  s  ItetO  e-tc
;oseci-s..iesoet      nto   rcnlc   e   essi   tsiaso. tqta                                        ettts    ssns    aeet   r  te   smarbl;19I                              lifeen
ciyaedhat   ostro    oiorta   esreae   oywihs                                              eriat f    .ete.   il -  ae bsel-  trensp_heee   fnta   aarIst
Pee  1  kapsee sap-yp...eeel PPisrice Per  da-yf ki-feesi    ets   tprosia                     fds-         ernsf-lhrtrtt    -lig   sCsserotidon, e- maoaeneeg
arsseinetectoeo   tgas  feslpleye.   1geta                                                       esst    ae   e  caoe   sett  sale,and tasetahoe farc  an Pl
Chlet   -df cer.adl 65y Rte(or.  tbda.s.atf   pe-atrAl  eseba  ortinoysandin                 t  the sast leber. farce..i..
lAirEapeeate- a  fieh fears) -  ertr1 n  sobe1 of-1 year  of f tte   i                           _;eret, rioheas        pares,  eaas   21 y        toes, an    naessIferen
uvesooeI5to  fper 1950  at ppolaies      otl    bs  n  eda19t0 -8issiest   uslod                                    et Inestl denel f1    e   ase    tba   a   aa
fsa .r ni  500  16 peyl   eest rht  an  rual o17   len- sesor bl- aushs  safeer..p..         inAdslntse Pteeity  Lsoafrs is,ha    -nnelve                    a  ohio  ad eitisa
-                                                                                                       "le~~~~~~~~~~~~~fSrtbe
on Br,E    thttnPrsce  ioeoa,srns,attttr    tn                                                         ...ree    natonPnee   dnen Ins.etltirrort)-  os   c   aa 
pcrveera1et n-Iebeurr       A-..IcIi-applsms bith anerbatae- apsbfc                      cratrelsav   peety (teent   leve  is             . see-hr   af yerag   peevad
e-nsorah veRsi enPferptly-d           AI. tha   the theusen r Innl ehoes- at they. hCOse          SUMPfTIOae NosaieftsAsl                     ns       etlvlfrret    ta
I; 19  vsnl'G'   rvd 78   t ts'  as lo-tota. soh-. ad
Gr-e                                                                              t~~r-riln'tn



26-
Pult..lat io    :  ie;.') (j6d-1978)                                                                                                ANNI.A I
OGNP Per Capita:  670 (1978)                                                                                                        aig.e 4  of 6
MOROCC:O - ECONOMiOC TNTrATORS
Amount
(nmillion 1IS4 at                             __    Annual Crowth Rates (Z)
current prices)                    Actual                                          proj'ct__
Indicator                         1978           1975    1976    177    978 19797/    1980    1981    1982    1983   984 4 ]97
NATIONAT. ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   12426               9.3    11.8    6.0      3.1    ;.1          3.5      2.9      4.0      4.4      4.4
Agriculture                  2248          -8.6   10.6  -13.b    18.2   -6.0            4.0      2.4   i .4         2.4      2.S
Industry                     4010          13.8   10.0   11.3   -0.7        4.8         3.0      3.0      4.4       5.1      5.5      t.'
Services                     6168          12.8   13.2    8.3       2.0    4.7          3.3      3.0      4.2       4.5      4.'      4.-
Consumptioni                    11138           9.8   11.7      2.0     7.4     3.0         5.2      2.9      2.8      3.7      4.1       4.:
Gross investment                 2976          24.0   20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2          -14.8    -1.1        2.4      6.7      4.7      65.
Exports oi GIS.S                 2167        -16.0    6.3       9.8     3.8     5.5        6.0       5.4      5.5      6.1      '.9       5.-
Imports of CNFS                  3990         24.1   23.8   13.5  -16.1    -1.1           -4.7       1.4    -1.2       4.3      4.6      6.'
Gross naticnal saviTngs          1753          21.2   13.9   20.6  -16.6    11.5          -5.8    -2.3        6.5      1.7      4.6       5.'
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)            .        14S.7  150.9  161.3  173.0  187.3
Exchange rate (USS per DH)           .         .247   .226   .222    .240   .256
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                        Average Annul-        2rnarU)
(at constant 1969 prices)                      _                     (at corstant 19' )2ric.s)
1960   1070   1975    1980   1985  1990                  1960-70   1970-75    1975-8-tS 19--85    1985-90
Gross do,aestic product                                                                 4.0         4.9        5.5         4.2        4.5
Agriculture b/           29.1   19.9   15.1   14.0   12.9  11.7                      3.5       -0.5         7.         2.4         2.5
Industry b/              23.5   27.6   30.6   30.6   31.6  33.0                     4.7         8.6        5.6         4.8         5.5
Services b/              47.4   52.5   54.3   55.5   55.6  55.3                     4.1         5.5        6.5         4.1         4.4
Consumption                 89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   86.2  83.4                      4.1        4.7         5.8        3.5         3.8
Gross investment            10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   16.4  16.8                      8.0        15.9       -2.4        4.1         5.2
Exports GN1'S               27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.7  18.2                      1.3        2.6         6.3        5.9         6.4
Imports GNFS                26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   19.4  18.5                      3.5        7.2         2.1        2.7         3.5
Gross national savings    11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   15.4  16.2                        3.5        13.1        3.1        3.2         5.8
As Z of GDP
1960       1970        1975
PUBLIC FINANCE  /
Current reverues                                     16.5       16.6        22.9
Current expenditures                                15.6        14.9       20.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           0.9         1.7        2.7
Capital cxpenrditure                                 3.8         5.9       12.2
Foreign financing                                    -           1.4         3.7
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-S5    19Y -90
OTHIER INDICATORS
CNI growth irate (Y)                       4.0         6.0        5.0         3.q        4.2
GNP per capita growth rate (X)             1.6         3.1        2.1         0.8        1.1
Energy consumption growth rate (8)    3.8              6.7        4.3         4.2        4.5
ICOR                                       3.09       2.77        4.52        3.90       3.62
Marginal sevings rate                      0.10         .40         .002      0.08       0.17
Import elasticity                          0.95        1.44        .16        0.57       0.94
a!  At market prices; components are also at miarket prices except fot imwpirt ta,xes which are included io, s,rvices.
b/  Sbare of GC)l at factor cost beginning ini 198iO and sectornil growth rates at factor costs beginning in 1475-80.
c/  Current revenues are consolidated Treasury revenues (including Special Accounts).
Current expenditures include subsidies, interest on debt. Milit.rte invcstmsnt is included in capital expenditure.
Capital expenditure includes transfer for non-gevernie-nt invnstwent Projects.
e/  Estimate.
ul MNv ?,  12 .
rF:t IA (P I r_ r



- 27 -
Popitlationil     18.9 (mid-1978)                                                                                              ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita;  USS 670 (1978)                                                                                                 I'OgQ S of ',
MOROCCO - EXTERNAl. TRATPE
Amount                                   Annuc.,1 Crowth Rato, (2)
Indicator            (million us$ at                              (at constant 1q69 prices)
current prices)
1978         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979q.i    1980  1981    1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTEIIIAL TRADE
Mcrzl.adise exports (FOB)        1502       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    5.5          9.4    5.5    5.7    6.5    6.1    6.4
Primary products             1143       -25.3   13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5           8.2    3.4    I .      3.6    3.7    3.7
Phosphate rock             488       -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.3           6.1    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
OLhers                     655       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6           9.8    2.2    2.3    2.7    2.5    2.7
Interimediate & manufactures 360         -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3   11.4          12.6   10.9   11.3   12.9   11.5   11.5
Merchandise imports (CIF)        2967        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7         -1.8    2.9    4.3    4.8    5.0    5.0
Food                          481         35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    2.0         -1.3    3.0    3.0    3.0    2.9    2.8
Petroleum                     427         12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2          3.9    3.2    4.4    4.8    4.9    5.4
Mochinery and equipment        813        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2          6.3    3.8    5.6    6.4    6.9    7.0
Others                       1246          5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1         -3.5    2.4    4.3    4.8    4.9    4.7
PRICES (1969 = 100)
Export price index                 .        256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  233.9    266.8  294.7  323.6  353.3  385.9  418.1
Import price index                 .        205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  247.8    287.3  317.2  345.7  372.6  601.2  431.6
Terms of trade index               .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   94.4         92.9   92.9   93.6   94.8   96.2   96.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (M)                        Average Annual Increase (8)
(at crrent                               __i_es)    (at constant 196 price,)
1960    1970   1975   1950   1985   1990         1960-70  l970- 7- 1  -58         1020-85   1985-90
ExpOrt s                                                                           2.0     -0.7         7.5        6.o        6.2
Frimary products          89.5    89.7   86.9   72.5   65.2   60.7             *-      -2.2        4.7        3.6        4.3
Intermediates &manufac- 10.5    10.4   13.1   27.5   34.8   39.3               ..       9.0       17.8       11.6        9.2
tures
Imuports                                                                           4.0       8.1        0.0        4.5        4.7
Food                      27.3    16.8   24.9   14.6   13.0   11.1              ..     14.0        0.8        3.0         2.6
Petroleum                  7.4      5.5   10.7   23.8   27.0   30.3             ..      9.5       10.2        4.6         5.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   22.2   22.7   23.2                ..     12.8       -3.0        6.0        6.3
Others                    58.6    53.7   40.5   39.5   37.3   35.3              ..      3.8       -5.4        4.3        4.5
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with              Share of Trade  uith
Industrial Couintries (7)         Developing Countries (2)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)
1960       1970       1975        1960       1470       1975      19lO            1970            1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                         72.3       73.7       60.8        27.7       25.4       38.8        ..             0.9             0.4
Imports                         76.7       74.9       65.7        23.3       25.1       33.9        ..              -              0.4
a.  Estimate.                                                                                             July 2, 1980
EMENA CP 11-B



-28-
1:  it  ('...'tl.<   till I I' 4                                                                                              PageFo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 6
01(1CO1     rAflA,Nt:F OFI'Al5Yt KN7S, 1EXt 8111A. C.m1'APtAl AND DF.PT
In,!i icat r                              190          95            A ctital                                                          Projected
T9 7-   ~ -~  --9 7 6        1 977      1978            P       1980      198 1     1982?      198 3    1984  1-9 8 5      1990
51cr to  pec..  a01  sors'Vicos             7 75      2 580      2 2 88      2486       3995        2609        4441       10(58     5 728     648 5    7341    8 302    14578
C'f  Xitsl:     chlaaji-efob                    4 88      1 530       1.74 5     1 28 3     14,88       18.52        240 1     2 798     3747      3774    4375    504 1       9342
.ctrsof g,.sant services                      946        3134       3691       41364       4353       5275         5740      8442      7038       8049    8979   10116)   17479
(If   Mct: Nrelutol iso   .06                   6 25      2 2567     2 30 5      730        228         3345         3 719     4274      4.304     5430    61319    69 31    12761
Ntcurrent t raniors                               27-          8         4,7         52         50          50          26          -         -         -        -        -         -
Cttrreo,t  ccou nt alir                             1446      - 546     -1345      -1I8376     - I134/8   -16 16       -12 69    - 1384      13 10    -15 64   -1 638   - 18 14    -290 1
Spo-cial ;rrr                                         .        30         45          30         20          350          350       300       250       200      150      100-
Cor,rnt a~ccunt baaince  after grants             - 144       -446       -L        -1466       -1098      -12 66         -9 19    - 1084    -1060    -1264   -1488   - 17 14    -2901
Privzte direct investm,ent                           21         21          38         68          77         37           25        25        28        31       35       39         79
141T loans (net)                                     90        304        336        1338       1119        1033         931       1247      1174      1533    1608    1864        3143
Official                                         ..          .           .          ..         ..         ..          497       716       643       683      554      612       618
Private                                          ..          .           .          .           .         --          434       531       432       849    1055    1253        2.524
Othter capital                                       56        104'         30         54       -306,        163           87       -70       -2         30        -        - 
Monietary sto-amento                               -23          17          16          6           8         53           50     -117        -99      -169    _155                -321
International reser'ves                             161        437        548         609        7 72        917         867        984      1083      1251    1406    1595        2828
Of which:   Gold!                                21         55          82        104         154        360          360       360       360       360      360      360       360
Reserves Es monthis imports                        2.0         1.7         3.8        1.7        2.1         2.1          1.8       1.8       1.8       1.9      1.9      1.9       1.9
EX'TF,N'AL CAPITA!. ANDO DEBT a)
Gross disbursements                                 175        664        726        1785       1191        1434
Concessiomal loans                               .         164         121        634        334         321
DAC                                          ..         109         73        107         100         76
OPEC                                         ..         42          41        507         189        179
IDA                                          ..           1          4           3          -           -
Other                                        ..          13          3          17         45         66
Non-concessional loan,s                          ..        500         614       1155         857       1113
Official Export credits                       .           3         22         27           2           2
IBRD3                                        16         110         59         68          72        1237
Other multilateral                           ..           7          2           7         51           7
Private                                      25         380        531       1049         732        967
Suppliers credits                         .        127          iD        171          10           1
Financial credits and bonds               .         253        521        878         722        959
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                  703       5753       2345        4078       5133c       6165~
Official                                      ..      1121        1761       1984       3473        2842
Private                                      ..        622        1080       2094       2666        3343
Undisbursed debt                                239        652        P05        1026       2282        2246,
Debt service
Total service payme,.nts                         58        145         162        265         548        799
Intetnet                                     23         50          66        148        252         411
Paynents as 2 exports of 0+1                    7.5        5.6         7.1       10.7       18.5        21.2
Average interEst rate on new  loans  Ml                 4.4        7.3        7.5         6.8        6.9        8.3
Average mtaturity of new  loans (years)               18.5        14.7       12.2       13.3        13.3       15.8
As % of fleht  aasuc j   at End of Hour Recent Year  1(l79)
Maturity structure of debt ootstasding
Maturities due within S yours                                                        38.5
Maturities due within 10 youars                                                     73.2
ItetresL structure of debt ou~tstanding
Interest due, within  first year                                                      6.9
p2   Prolicinary                                                                                                                                    y* 19P8
a)Fruit TROD. Esera Pet Reporting Syst s.Tie,re  ore, aliceuhl  d iscrepn-ncl-5   n  ,w   t'c                                                 E AC   11-C
itctsw-   th, ectersn I ca1ital and  lelit ne,rvier  flues r -port- -d tdnr th, TRllP P-it let t
cr6  rcordead  in the, official balan-s of p'-tt   sUlListics  ol'"r4n in thepi                     rtt   iistlc



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of November 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                                           US$ Million          /
Credit                                                                 Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans      Fully disbursed                              392.9
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                           36.0
1017           1974       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                    1.0
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                   12.5
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        12.8
1123           1975   -  Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              18.5                    2.6
1201           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                   11.1
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   13.1
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education         .    25.0                    25.0
1299           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   49.0                    2.7
1361           1977       CNCA                    Agriculture           35.0                    0.0*
1383           1977       CIOR                    Industry              45.0                    1.0
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   39.8
1428           1977       BNDE                    DFC                   45.0                   21.1
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    1.4
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       16.6
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   63.0
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                   15.0
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  113.0
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   25.0
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   61.2
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   46.6
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   56.2
S-18           1980       BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   49.4
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   62.0
1848           1980 1/   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              34.0                   34.0
Total 2/                                                        1421.9        50.0       728.0
of which has been repaid                                       169.0        0.7
Total now outstanding                                           1252.9       49.3
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid 2/               17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1250.5       49.3
Total undisbursed                                                715.2        12.8       728.0
NOTE
1/ Signed, but not yet effective.
2/ As of October 31, 1980.
*   US $40,783 undisbursed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of November 30, 1980)
US$ Million_
Loan     Equity   Total
1963/1978           BNDE                          Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                           Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory             -        1.4       1.4
1977                Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.8       2.4       7.2
1979                Agadir                        Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SO!tIFER                      Copper Mining            12.9       2.2      15.1
Total Gross Commitments                                                31.1      11.4      42.5
Less cancellation, terminations,
repayments and sales                                             0.8       1.3       2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      30.3      10.1      40.4
Total Undisbursed                                                      25.5       4.8      30.3



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS TN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 1017 Maroc-Phosphore I Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness:  February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project was physically completed in October 1976 and the phosphoric
acid plant is now in commercial operation.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on schedule in
1975. The project area roads construction program was completed in 1977, and
the farm roads program in 1978. The Loan Agreement was amended in July 1980
to transfer funds earmarked for the construction of flood protection dykes to
equipment and to other infrastructure works related to the Sebou I and II
projects, in view of the high costs of the dykes, and the advancement of the
construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of flooding.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date;
June 30, 1982.
The tube wells required for new irrigated areas (6,400 ha) were completed
and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
distribution as well as construction of the Project Headquarters and
Development Centers have been completed. Works related to the social
components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are now
underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the
operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel, causing
2 years delay in project implementation, and consequent cost overruns. A
revised work program has been prepared to reflect this. Agricultural yields
are very satisfactory.
Cr. No. 555   Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project has faced substantial delays in project implementation due
mainly to the complexity of land consolidation in a rainfed area, attempted
for the first time in Morocco under the project, and hampered by management
problems. The cadastral and socio-economic surveys are now
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They sbould be read in this sense, and with the undertanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
underway, and disbursement has begun. The coordination of project activities
between the project authority and the central offices of the Ministry of
Agriculture has improved but continues to require close monitoring. A revised
land reform and redistribution program which meets the project's objectives is
currently under preparation, although final decisions on rehabilitation of the
irrigation perimeter and inclusion of seed production estates are still
pending. A nationwide study on collective lands has been postponed.
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30,1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Construction of irrigation and drainage works is nearly complete. The first
4,600 ha. have been completed and put in service. Completion of the remainder
of sectors is underway and expected to be on schedule. Agricultural
development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities-for the development
of 260 ha. on which 7,000 hotel rooms and 2,600 housing units are expected to
be constructed. The project includes also regional infrastructure, facilities
and studies for the development of Agadir's tourism assets. The major project
component, UAT-Founty (SONABA) land development, is ready for construction of
hotel and residential facilities and land sales are underway. The
implementation of other components experienced delays of about one year.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date.
May 1, 1981.
The project in designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation has been
delayed due to budgetary restrictions, staffing-and management problems, with
the exception of the rural development and extension training center,
construction of which is almost complete. Construction is now underway for
about two-thirds of the project components. It is expected that
implementation will accelerate, and progress is being closely monitored by
supervision missions.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1299  Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam on the
Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation,
construction of about 200 km of 225 KV transmission lines, and preparation of
preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating dam and
power station. The project should be physically completed in early 1981 and
disbursements are on schedule.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million of February
7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production and
at expanding the capability of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
as an agricultural lending institution. The project covered most of CNCA's
program for medium- and long-term lending through August 1979 and included
related technical assistance. Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing
on-farm investments of small farmers, cooperatives and farmers' associations.
Virtually all the Bank loan is disbursed, with the exception of funds for
technical assistance, which has begun only in late 1980.
Ln No. 1383   CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 19, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distribution
facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory. Training of key
personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate.  The cement plant
started operation in January 1979, and the distribution center, in July 1980.
95 percent of the Bank loan has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date;
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco and is likely to result in a two-year
delay in completing the project. Civil works are now underway in 60 percent of
the project area.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is fully committed and about two-thirds disbursed.
Ln. No. S-7   Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness:  August 18, 1978; Closing Date:  April
30, 1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. Construction is proceeding
satisfactorily; however, there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects
of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Implementation is proceeding rapidly, due to excellent
project management and good interagency coordination.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of October
27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the
construction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
'construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and commercial operations are
expected to begin in mid-1981.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project; US$25.0
million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  December 17,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in full commitment of the loan within the first year of the project.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems have delayed project start-up. Consultants have been recruited and
are in the field.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1704  Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of Ma  23,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
Juine 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of CNCA's medium- and long-term lending
program and farm investment program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75
million is provided by IFAD and KfW.
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; qni
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays. Signature of the co-financing agreement
with KFW bas been delayed but the KFW loan is expected to become effective in
February/March 1981. There is strong demand for the credit facilities for
low-income house connections.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US058.0 million of
November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. S-18 Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would assist Morocco's efforts to accelerate the
exploration and development of its petroleum potential. It will help the
Bureau de Recherches et Participation Minieres (BRPM) complete its exploration



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
of producing areas and assess the petroleum potential of unexplored basins.
The project will provide technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis
of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Ln. No. 1830 Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date, June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii) a
three-and-a-half year program of routine and periodic road maintenance,
including the purchase of equipment; (iii) technical assistance for the
Ministry of Public Works, to improve road maintenance; and (iv) technical
assistance and equipment for the Ministry of Transportation, to improve
transportation planning.
Ln. No. 1848 Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to                  Two years
prepare project:                            (May 1978 - April 1980)
(b)  Preparation by:                               Provincial Delegations of the
Ministry of Housing for Meknes
and Kenitra; Municipalities of
Meknes and Kenitra
(c)  Project first identified by                   January 1978
the Bank:
(d)  Appraisal mission:                            April 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                                 November 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                April 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Condition of effectiveness
Signature of agreements between the Borrower and BCP which are
satisfactory to the Bank, concerning the terms and conditions for
business and residential plot charges and repayment of building materials
loans, is an additional condition of effectiveness (para. 63).
2. Conditions of disbursement
Conditions of disbursement for related expenditures include:
(i)   The Government shall have established and staffed the Permanent Unit
associated with the Project Steering Committee in each project city,
as a condition of disbursement for all components in the relevant
city (para. 53);



38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 5at 2
(ii) The Government shall have entered into agreements with the
municipalities concerning the terms and conditions for repayment by
the municipalities of the costs relating to the off-site
infrastructure and the municipal services component (para.65); and
(iii)  MHAT shall have entered into agreements with the local public utility
authorities (RADEM and RAK), concerning the execution of and cbarges
for civil works and equipment relating to water and electricity
(para. 66).
3. Other conditions
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(i) The Government has acquired the land needed for project
implementation or has initiated appropriate expropriation measures
(para. 52);
(ii) Beneficiaries of slum upgrading, sites and services and business
plots would be selected according to criteria and procedures and
within a schedule agreed between the Borrower and the Bank (para. 64);
(iii) The Project Technical Units and the Housing Bureaus within the
Provincial Delegations of the Ministry of Housing (MHAT) of Meknes
and Kenitra would be staffed according to an agreed schedule (para.
54);
(iv) Duly qualified and experienced staff would be provided to the
Permanent Units of the Project Steering Committees and to the Project
Municipalities (paras. 53, 55);
(v) On-site project costs for the slum upgrading, sites and services and
employment generation components would be fully recovered through
plot charges for the residential and business land (para. 61).



