OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS It"-A
The World Bank                                 1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEI -433              Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
October 8, 2014
His Excellency
Dr. Ivin Acosta
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida Bolivar, Frente a la Asemblea Nacional - 4to piso
Managua, Nicaragua
Re: Credit No. 4471-NI, Grant No. H4070-NI (Nicaragua Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project) and Grant No. H8150-NI (Additional for Nicaragua Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project)
Additional Instructions: AMENDED Disbursement Letter
I refer to the Financing Agreements ("Agreements") between the International
Development Association ("World Bank") and the Republic of Nicaragua (the "Recipient") for
the above-referenced project, dated July 25, 2008 for Credit No. 4471-NI and.Grant No. H4070-
NI and dated March 1, 2013 for Grant No. H815-0-NI. The Agreements provide that the
Association may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Credit
No. 4471-NI, Grant No. H407-0-NI and Grant H815-0-NI ("Financing").       This letter
("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the additional instructions.
This letter is a Third Restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated July 25, 2008 and
amended on March 1, 2013, for IDA Credit 4471-NI, Grant H407-0-NI and Grant No. H815-0-
NI, restating section II, (viii) to increase DA Ceiling from US$500,00 to US$1,000,000. This is
consistent with the Recipient's request dated September 30, 2014. In addition, paragraph (i) of
Section III was updated to clarify to which categories and operations th Custom Statements of
Expenditure are relate to and paragraphs (iii) and (iv) of Section II wer2updated to authorize the
use of secure identification credentials ("SIDC") and the new Form of Authorized Signatory
Letter and the Terms and Conditions of Use of "SIDC" are included as attachments. All other
provisions and attachments of the Amended Disbursement Letter dated March 1, 2013, except as
amended, shall remain in force and effect.
The World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines"), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The manner in
which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is specified below.
Sections and subsections in parentheses refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the
Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms used
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements


﻿(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2).; The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Financing:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
* Direct Payment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date
will be notified by the World Bank.
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Condition(s)
in Schedule 2, Section IV, B of the Financing Agreements.
II. Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter should be furnished to the World Bank, in the form attached (Attachment 1) at the
address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s)
authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: J. Humberto Lopez, Director, Central America, Latin America
and the Caribbean Region
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed applications for
withdrawal, together with supporting documents, to the address indicated below:
Banco Mundial
Setor Comercial Norte
Quadra 02, Lote A
Edificio Corporate Financial Center
70 andar
70712-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the
World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
World Bank by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the
World Bank for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all


﻿such officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the
World Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with SIDC for the designated
officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by
completing   Form    2380,   which   is   accessible  through   Client   Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to
use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms
through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of
Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Identification Credentials") provided in Attachment 2; and (b) to cause such official to abide by
those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
US$100,000 for Direct Payment and Reimbursement.
(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6)to Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia (Emergency Social
Investment Fund - FISE) for IDA Credit 4471-NI.
*  Type ofDesignated Account (subsection S.3): Segregated
*  Currency ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.4): United States Dollars
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Central Bank of Nicaragua
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US$350,000.
(vii) Advances (sections 5 and 6)to Fondo de Inversidn Social de Emergencia (Emergency
Social Investment Fund - FISE) for IDA Grant H407-0-NI.
*  Type ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated
*  Currency ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.4): United States Dollars
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Central Bank of Nicaragua.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US$1,650,000.


﻿(viii) Advances (sections 5 and 6)to Fondo de Inversidn Social de Emergencia (Emergency
Social Investment Fund - FISE) for IDA Grant H815-0-NI.
* Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated
*  Currency ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.4): United States Dollars
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Central Bank of Nicaragua.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US$ 1,000,000.
III. Reporting on Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement:
o Summary Statements with records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices) for payments made for:
>  Goods and Works under contracts costing US$150,000 equivalent per
contract or more;
> Consulting and Non-Consulting Services under contracts costing
US$50,000 equivalent per contract or more; and
> Training and Operating Costs costing US$25,000 equivalent or more;
o  Custom Statement of Expenditure for payments under Category 1 of the Grant
No. H8150-NI and Category 2 of Credit No. 4471-NI and Grant No. H4070-NI
- subprojects;
"  Custom Statement of Expenditure for payments under Category 4 of Credit No.
4471-NI and Grant No. H4070-NI - FISE Employee Salaries;
o  Statement of Expenditure for all other categories and payments that do not
exceed the thresholds established above; and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review.
* For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
o Summary Statements with records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices) for payments made for:
> Goods and Works under contracts costing US$150,000 equivalent per
contract or more;
> Consulting and Non-Consulting Services under contracts costing
US$50,000 equivalent per contract or more; and


﻿> Training and Operating Costs costing US$25,000 equivalent or more;
"  Custom Statement of Expenditure for payments under Category 1 of the Grant
No. H8150-NI and Category 2 of Credit No. 4471-NI and Grant No. H4070-NI
- subprojects;
o  Custom Statement of Expenditure for payments under Category 4 of Credit No.
4471-NI and Grant No. H4070-NI - FISE Employee Salaries;
o  Statement of Expenditure for all other categories and payments that do not
exceed the thresholds established above;
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review; and
o  A Designated Account activity statement with a copy of the Designated
Account bank statement.
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices.
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): Quarterly.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement   Handbook   available  on   the   Association's  public  website  at
https://www.worldbank.org  and   its  secure   website   "Client  Connection"   at
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to prepare and deliver
Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Financing, and retrieve related policy,
financial, and procurement information.
If you have not already done so, the Association recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website
you will be able to prepare and deliver Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the
Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. All Recipient
officials authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register
with Client Connection before electronic delivery can be effected. For more information about
the website and registration arrangements, please contact the Association by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact the World Bank Loan
Department by sending a message to loa-lcr(iworldbank.org and placing the project name, grant
number and credit number in the subject line.


﻿Very trul yours,
Senl'or Finance Officer
World ank Loan Department
Attachments
1. Form for Authorized Signatures
2. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated March 1,
2013
Cc with copies: Jos6 Adrian Chavaria Montenegro
Vice Minister
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Fax. (505) 2222-4383
Email:josemontenegro@mhcp.gob.ni
Julio Cesar Cuadra
Executive Director
Emergency Social Investiment Fund (FISE)
Fax. (505) 2277-3340
email: jcuadra@fise.gob.ni


﻿Attachment 1
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
[Street address]
[City] [Country]
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Re: Financing No.      -    (              Project)
I refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") between the International
Development Association (the "Association") and [name of Recipient] (the "Recipient"), dated
providing the above Financing. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General
Conditions as defined in the Agreement, any '[one] of the persons whose authenticated
specimen signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Recipient to sign applications
for withdrawal [and applications for a special commitment] under this Financing.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Association, 2[each] of the persons
whose authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the
Recipient, acting 3[individually] 4[jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support
thereof on the terms and conditions specified by the Association.
5[This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Secure
Identification Credentials (SIDC) and to deliver the Applications and supporting documents to
the Association by electronic means. In full recognition that the Association shall rely upon
1 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
3 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
5 Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Secure Identification Credentials and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please
delete the paragraph. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿such representations and warranties, including without limitation, the representations and
warranties contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in
connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation
("Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC"), the Recipient represents and warrants to the
Association that it will cause such persons to abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the
Association records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Attachment 2
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)' will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token).
The Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL)
duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver
Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2. Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on
CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.    Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having
read, understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
'"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿2.    Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register
his/her Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account
name and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User". The Bank will
maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for purposes of
managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC User will
have any access to the Account.
3.    Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC
User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1.    Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and
Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the SIDC
by the SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC)
that each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use,
including without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnectionrtworldbank.org.


﻿4.5. The     Borrower    shall   immediately     notify   the    Bank     at
clientconnection(i worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
5.   Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to
use a SIDC for any reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.    Care of Physical Tokens
6.1. Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2. The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to
receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3. Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile
phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens
should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5
cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper
operation of electronic equipment, including the Physical Token.
6.4. Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7.    Replacement
7.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical
Tokens will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical
Token in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


﻿Prepared by Victor Ordonez, Senior Finance Officer (Loan Department)
Cleared: Lilian Pena Pereira Weiss, Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist (GWADR)
Cc: Sofia de Abreu Ferreira, Counsel (LEGEN)


