Page  1
CONFOREMD COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4053 BUR 
GRANT NUMBER H158 BUR  
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Financing) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4053 BUR 
GRANT NUMBER H158 BUR  
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 2005, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
April 1, 2005 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in 
poverty (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association;  
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in support of the 
Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
financing (the Financing), in one tranche, as hereinafter provided. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) "BCEAO" 
means 
Banque Centrale des Eta
ts de l’Afrique de l’Ouest
;
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“DCCF” means 
Direction Centrale du Contrôle Financier
,
the unit in 
charge of 
ex ante 
budget control in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finances and Budget; 
(c) “DGB” 
means 
Direction Générale du Budget
,
the unit in charge of 
budget manage
ment in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finances and Budget; 
(d) “DGCOOP” 
means 
Direction Générale de la Coopération
,
the unit in 
charge of international cooperation in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finances and Budget; 
(e) “DGEP” 
means 
Direction Générale de l’Economie et de la Planification
,
the unit in charge of the economy and planning in the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Development; and 
(f) “DGTCP” 
means 
Direction Générale du Trésor et de la Comptabilité 
Publique
,
the unit in charge of treasury and public accounting 
in the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Finances and Budget. 
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Financing Agreement, 
the Financing consisting of: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,600,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,300,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Financing from 
the Financing Accounts in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Financing Accounts shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Euros 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into said account, an 
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Association. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing 
was used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, 
Page  4
-
3
-
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Financing not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Financing Accounts or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate 
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing on October 
15, 2015 and ending April 15, 2045. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 15, 2025 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
Page  5
-
4
-
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such   installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Credit  shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the  
 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment  
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or  
more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the  
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have  
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of  
a minimum of five years on such repayment 
of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of finances is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministère des Finances et du Budget 
03 BP 7008 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
SEGEGOUV 
 5555 
  (226) 
50-31-27-15 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By  
/s/  Tertius 
Zongo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ 
A. David Craig 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
Page  10
-
9
-
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Financing during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
The Borrower has: 
(1) 
Transferred the assets of 
Société des Fibres et Textiles du Burkina 
(SOFITEX) in the Central and Eastern zones to new operators and the 
new operators have begun their activities, as described in Section 6 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
(2) 
Adopted a decree through the Council of Ministers regarding the 
amendment of the legal and regulatory framework of the electricity 
sector, in line with the electricity sector strategy, including a draft new 
law to be presented to the Parliament, as described in Section 8 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
(3) 
Developed a sector Medium Term Expenditure Framework in line 
with the objectives of the National Health Development Program and 
the Millennium Development Goals, as described in Section 14 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
(4) 
Developed a system of subsidies for obstetrical emergencies, as 
described in Section 15 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(5) 
Adopted a draft budget for 2005 on the basis of sector ceilings of the 
2005-07 Medium Term Expenditure Framework, and in line with the 
priorities of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, as described in 
Section 22 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(6) 
Provided to the Association evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association that a database of the externally 
financed projects has been created and that the Borrower has verified 
the table of credit and grant agreements entered into by the Borrower 
as borrower or beneficiary of the funds (as the case may be) , as 
described in Section 22 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(7) 
Adopted a decree for the regulation of concession and leasing 
contracts to ensure best international practice in this area, as described 
in Section 25 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
Page  12
-
11
-
(8) 
Provided to the Association evidence in form and substance deemed 
satisfactory to the Association that the Borrower has begun the 
physical verification of the government property, as described in 
Section 24 of the Letter of Development Policy; and  
(9) 
Finalized the software for the integrated accounting system for local 
communities (
Comptabilité Intégrée des Collectivités Locales
,
CICL), 
as described in Section 24 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the Association to its 
members in the form of development credit and development grant.  They apply 
to any development financing agreement providing for any such development 
finance to the extent and subject to any modifications set forth in such 
agreement.” 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time. Development Financing Agreement includes 
these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Financing Agreement.” 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
“12. 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Financing Agreement, in support of which the Financing is made.” 
4. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
“15. 
  “Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement;” 
“16.  
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on 
its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;” 
“17.  
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant;” and 
“18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account (and “Financing Account” means, individually, the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account, as the context may require).” 
Page  14
-
13
-
5. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01(3), 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and 
Article IX. 
6. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
7. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
8. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Financing Accounts
.
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.” 
9. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be made in the currency of the 
account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Financing Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower shall be 
made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably select.” 
10. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Financing from the Financing Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
11. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
12. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) after the words “any development 
credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”; to 
Section 6.02 (c) (i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”; and to Section 7.01 (b) (i) after the words “any other 
Page  15
-
14
-
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association.”   
13. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
14. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Financing Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
15. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
