Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1476 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (5) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%); Health (20%); Other 
industry (15%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(15%); Primary education (15%) 
Project ID 
P078995 
Borrower(s) 
BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finances and Budget 
Date PID Prepared 
March 21, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 15, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
May 3, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Burkina Faso is a landlocked country of about 12 million inhabitants with a narrow natural resource 
base. Per capita income is about US$300 and social indicators compare poorly to the average in Sub-
Saharan Africa: in 2003 literacy rate was about 20 percent and life expectancy at birth was 43 years, 
compared to, respectively, 35 percent and 46 years for Sub-Saharan Africa.  According to the 2003 
household survey, poverty is widespread with 46 percent of the population below the national poverty 
line. Rural poverty accounts for 95 percent of national poverty. In 2004, the sizeable fall in international 
cotton prices, high oil prices, a locust
 invasion, and political instability in the neighboring Cote d’Ivoire 
were key reminders of Burkina’s vulnerability to external shocks.  
Burkina Faso was among the first countries in Sub Saharan Africa to present a full PRSP in 2000, and 
one of the few to have completed a full revised PRSP.  Since 2000, there has been significant progress in 
implementing the PRSP, as laid out in three PRSP progress reports to date. Burkina is also among the 
first countries to reach the HIPC completion point. However, despite these gains and the track record, 
there remain important challenges that need to be addressed so as to devise strategies that help to attain 
the MDGs 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
PRSC-5 supports PRSP objectives of: (i) raising growth and equity in a stable macroeconomic 
environment, in order to reduce the incidence of poverty; (ii) increasing access to and quality of basic 
social services; (iii) improving employment and income opportunities for the poor; and (iv) improving 
governance with a particular emphasis on public sector management and budget management reforms. 
Prior actions under the growth and employment creation component include the liberalization of the 
cotton sector and changes in the legal and regulatory framework for the electricity sector, as well other 
measures related to improving the investment climate (labor market, regulatory framework). These 
measures aims to lower factor costs, increase productivity and favor new investments.  Prior actions 
related to increase access to social services include the adoption of a MTEF for the health sector, in line 
with the MDGs, and the preparation of a system of subsidies for obstetrical emergencies. The 
Government has also continued to implement the policy of free vaccination.  Prior actions related to 
improving governance encompass the adoption of a budget for 2005 consistent with the PRSP 
objectives, the strengthening of local governance through the implementation of an integrated 
accounting software, and procurement reform for leasing and concessions contracts. Overall, Burkina 
has maintained a strong pace in implementing the reform program under PRSC-5.  
Page  2
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The proposed poverty reduction support operation (PRSC-5) is the second in a series of three annual 
operations supporting the implementation of the revised PRSP in 2004-2006 in Burkina Faso, in line 
with the Bank’s 2003 CAS progress report.  The new CAS (FY06-09) in preparation also aims to 
support the implementation of the revised full PRSP.  
Against the backdrop of the difficult initial conditions and environment, Burkina Faso has demonstrated 
great resilience and remarkable track record of sound policy implementation. The political environment 
in Burkina Faso has remained stable, and the country has made considerable progress in macroeconomic 
stabilization under three successive programs supported under the IMF’s Poverty Reduction and Growth 
Facility (PRGF).  A fourth PRGF is implementing well too. The growth rate of gross domestic product 
(GDP) has averaged 5.8 percent between 1994 and 2003, relative to population growth rate which stood 
at about 2.5 percent. Burkina’s economic growth remained strong in 2004 at 4.8 percent.  Consequent to 
good fiscal discipline, Burkina has managed to realize a stable macroeconomic environment with low 
inflation. 
Achievements under the previous PRSCs are positive as illustrated by an 8 percent reduction of poverty 
incidence between 1998 and 2003. In addition, the newly revised PRSP builds on the achievements of 
the first PRSP while improving the latter on several dimensions: it is grounded on a stronger 
participatory basis, has a more effective M&E system, and benefits from improved donor coordination 
through the adoption of a unified budget support framework.   
4. Financing 
The financing of US$60 million equivalent – of which US$13.9 million of grants – will be disbursed 
immediately upon effectiveness. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The ministry of finance and budget (MFB) will be responsible for overall implementation of the 
proposed PRSC-5.  The Secretary of the Permanent Secretariat for the Monitoring of Financial Programs 
and Policies (SP-PPF) in the MFB will lead the government technical team with representatives of the 
Ministries of Finance and Budget; Economy and Development; Health; Basic Education and Literacy; 
Secondary Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research; Environment and Living Conditions; 
Agriculture, Water and Fisheries; Commerce, Enterprise Development, and Artisanship; Energy and 
Mines; Decentralization; and representatives of public enterprises. 
Bank’s supervision effort will be aligned with the government-led monitoring and evaluation system 
underpinning the revised PRSP, the Priority Action Plan, and the Unified Framework for Budgetary 
Support (UFBS). The specific benchmarks and outcomes to be monitored under PRSC-5 are extracted 
from the government overall development program, thus providing significant benefits in reducing 
transaction costs for the Government. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The proposed operation would support the Government to pursue its policy objectives laid out in the 
revised PRSP and its accompanying Priority Action Plan (PAP) within a structured macroeconomic 
framework by providing sound financing for the execution of the government’s 2005 budget. It would 
also provide the incentives to implement key economic, social and institutional reform to strengthen the 
overall performance of the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation. Over the period 2004-2006, it 
is expected that the reform program under the series of three annual PRSCs (PRSC-4, PRSC-5 and 
forthcoming PRSC-6) would help the government in achieving a 6 percentage points reduction of 
Page  3
poverty incidence, increase private sector participation in the cotton, telecommunication and energy 
sectors thus accelerating growth through higher investment and improved competitiveness. It would also 
help the government in making progress toward reaching the MDGs, namely, increase school enrollment 
and literacy rates, reduce child and maternal mortality, increase access to safe water, and strengthen the 
sustainability of development efforts.  
The risks for the operation arise from the country’s weak capacity, still fragile fiduciary progress, 
natural disasters (drought, locust invasions), commodity prices and currency shocks, and regional 
instability.  The different risks are mitigated under the credit through the approval of two Bank projects 
to address the capacity issue; the integration in the reform program of key fiduciary reforms; the 
approval of a project to help prevent and fight locust invasion, and Bank readiness to provide further 
financial support when needed; a strong track record of the government in adapting to external shocks 
through adjustment of non-priority expenditure, an independent monetary policy with a strong record of 
low inflation, and willingness of the external community to deliver additional credit as needed; and 
regional initiatives to solve the political crisis in the sub-region, notably in Côte d’Ivoire.     
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
It is expected that the reform program supported by PRSC-5 would improve the living conditions of the 
poorest segment of the population. Drawing from the findings of the Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 
Report
1
,
PRSC-5 is introducing social protection measures (OVC) in the policy matrix of the series of 
PRSCs.  A critical analytical underpinning for the proposed PRSC-5 is also the Poverty Assessment 
(PA) which exploits the household data from 1998 and 2003 data to study the links between growth and 
poverty in 1998-2003 and under possible future growth paths and – based on this analytical foundation – 
explore options to enhance the poverty impact of growth, and respond to macroeconomic shocks.   
The Bank has determined that the policies supported by the proposed PRSC-5 are not likely to cause 
significant effects on Burkina’s environment and natural resources. The potential environmental and 
social impacts of the series of PRSC-4-6 stem from its sectoral coverage, but these impacts should not 
be extensive; nor will they be irreversible.  In addition, there is a close and direct link between PRSC-5 
and the sectoral investment projects as regards compliance with environmental and social safeguards, 
and all these accompanying sectoral investment operations have their own environmental management 
plans (EMPs) formulated to offset the main environmental and social impacts identified during their 
evaluation. These sectoral EMPs are the basis to guarantee compliance with Bank requirements and 
policies, and can be found in the Environmental Assessments (EAs) of the respective projects.  
8. Contact point 
Contact: Abdoulaye Seck 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4508 
Fax: (202) 614-1655 
Email: Aseck1@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
1
Burkina Faso. Risks and Vulnerability Assessment. Report No. 28144-BUR. January 30, 2004. 
Page  4
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
