Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1346 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (5) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%);Health (20%);Other 
industry (15%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(15%);Primary education (15%) 
Project ID 
P078995 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
Date PID Prepared 
January 23, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 28, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
1. 
The proposed poverty reduction support credit (PRSC-5) is the second in a series of three annual 
operations supporting the implementation of the revised PRSP in 2004-2006 in Burkina Faso, in line 
with the Bank’s 2000 CAS and the 2003 CAS progress report.  Achievements under the previous PRSCs 
are positive as illustrated by an [8] percent reduction of poverty incidence between 1998 and 2003. In 
addition, the government has adopted a revised PRSP that builds on the achievements of the first PRSP 
while improving the latter on several dimensions: it is grounded on a stronger participatory basis, has a 
more effective M&E system, and benefits from improved donor coordination through the adoption of an 
unified budget support framework.  In that context, continuous support under this operation is 
warranted. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
2. 
PRSC-5 will support PRSP objectives of : (i) raising growth and equity in a stable 
macroeconomic environment, and reducing the incidence of poverty; (ii) increasing access to and quality 
of basic social services; (iii) improving employment and income opportunities for the poor; and (iv) 
improving governance with a particular emphasis on public sector management and budget management 
reforms. 
3. Preliminary description 
3. 
The proposed poverty reduction support credit (PRSC-5) is the second in a series of operations 
supporting the implementation of the revised PRSP for the period 2004-2006.  The revised PRSP has 
four strategic pillars: (i) accelerating broad-based growth; (ii) promoting access to social services; (iii)  
increasing employment and income-generating activities for the poor; and (iv) promoting good 
governance. As for PRSC-4, PRSC-5 supports three components of measures consistent with the four 
pillars of the PRSP: (i) growth and employment creation; (ii) human resource development; and (iii) 
good governance. Under the growth and employment creation component, PRSC-5 supports reforms in 
the cotton,  rural sector, telecommunication, and energy sectors as well as the labor market to lower 
factor costs, increase productivity and favor new investments. The second component of the credit 
includes policies in the education, health, social protection, and water sectors to build infrastructure, 
lower the cost of services, improve service quality, and reinforce monitoring and evaluation. The third 
component encompasses policy measures to strengthen budget formulation, execution, procurement, 
budget control, public sector performance, decentralization, and environmental management. The 
Page  2
proposed operation is an integral part of the Bank’s strategy presented in the 2000 CAS and the 2003 
CAS progress report. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
4. 
The Bank has determined that the policies supported by the proposed PRSC-5 are not likely to 
cause significant effects on Burkina’s environment and natural resources. As noted in the environmental 
assessment attached to the program document of PRSC-4
1
,
the potential environmental and social 
impacts of the series of PRSC-4-6 stem from its sectoral coverage., but these impacts, which are mainly 
linked to the measures for rural development, privatization of ONATEL and reform of the energy sector, 
as well as to investments in education and health, should not be extensive; nor will they be irreversible.  
5. 
However, there is a close and direct link between PRSC-5 and the sectoral investment projects as 
regards compliance with environmental and social safeguards, and most of these accompanying sectoral 
investment operations have their own environmental management plans (EMPs) formulated to offset the 
main environmental and social impacts identified during their evaluation. These sectoral EMPs are the 
basis to guarantee compliance with Bank requirements and policies, and can be found in the 
Environmental Assessments (EAs) of the respective projects. These projects are: (i) the Community-
based Rural Development project; (ii) the Basic Education Sector project; (iii) the Response to 
HIV/AIDS project; (iv) the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development project; (v) the Energy 
project; (vi) the Urban Environment project. 
6. 
PRSC-5 is also providing support to measures aiming at strengthening government’s capacity for 
environmental and natural resource management: (i) implementation of the key measures in the 
capacity-building plan developed under PRSC-2 in the budget for 2004 and 2005 and inclusion of the 
measures in the 2005-2007 MTEF; (ii) ongoing creation of cells in sectoral ministries in order to 
strengthen compliance with national regulations; (iii) improved supervision of the management of 
ligneous forest resources by means of effective improvements and promotion of biomass energy; (iv) 
supervision of other IDA projects and of implementation of recommendations for IDA projects already 
visited
.
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
27.6 
 Total 
27.6 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Abdoulaye Seck 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4508 
Fax: (202) 614-1655 
Email: Aseck1@worldbank.org
1
Burkina Faso. Program document for PRSC-4. Annex 9. Report No. 28293-BUR. April 14, 2004. 
Page  3
