;>OCXtan    ; 4I14:   I (;J,'  )1-1  (
ThieWorl          'Mc  N'T1.-.><,  I  !.@e ; IVV'3y:.  (1'1:.
The Worw
'I Vh  A,M~'     
FOR OM1CIM]
Report No. P-5598-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 83.5 MILLION
(US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
September 3, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOU IVA;ENTS
(as of August 30, 1991)
Currency Unit - Cordoba
USs1.0 = C$S
US$0.20 c C$l
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AGROEXCO  =  Agriculture State Export Company
AFA       =  Rice, Beans and Sugar Food Package
APP       =  People's Property Area
BANIC        Nicaraguan Industry and Commerce Bank
WIN       =  Nicaraguan Mortgage Bank
BND       =  Nicaraguan Development Bank
BP        =  People's Bank
CAFENIC   =  Nicaraguan Coffee State Trading Company
CIT       =  Corporate Income Tax
co        =  Cordoba Oro
CORFIN    =  Nicaraguan Financial Corporation
CORNAP    =  State-owned Corporations Holding Company
CPAR      =  Country Procurement Assessment Report
ENABAS    =  State Agricultural Marketing Company
ERC       =  Economic Recovery Credit
FASO      =  Fund for Assistance to the Oppressed
FISE      =  Social Emergency Investment Fund
FNI       =  Nicaraguan Investment Fund
GVT       =  General Value Tax
ICB       =  International Competitive Bidding
IDB       =  Inter-Amer'.can Development Bank
INAA      =  Nicaraguan Institute for Water and Se0trage
HATONIC   =  Nicaraguan Cattle/Slaughtering Holding Company
MDP       =  UNDP Management Development Program
OECD      =  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PMA       -  Mother-Children Nutrition Program
PTI       =  Personal Income Tax
RUTA      =  UNDP/IBRD Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SCT       =  Selective Consumption Tax
SOE       =  Statement of Expenses
UNDP      =  United Nations Development Program
USAID     =  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
ECONO2!C RECOVERB CREDIT
PRESIVENT'S REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No*
Credit and Program Summary .. .4..
Part I.   ECONOMIC ISSUES, PKLICIES, AND IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  . 1
Background.. . 1
Recent Economic Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 2
Need for Adjustment and Constraints.                       4
The Government's Strategy and Program for Stabilization
and Adjustment.                                            6
Strategy for Renewed Growth . . . . . . . . . . .  . 6
The Stabilization Program.                            6
The Structural Adjustment Program.                    7
medium Term Prospects  ..
IDA Assistance Strategy.. .   11
Part II.  THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . 13
Public Sector Reforms  ..... . ....... . 13
Financial Sector Reform       ........   19
Reforms of Systen of Incentives  ........... . 21
Social Sector Requirements and Poverty Alleviation . . . 24
Part III. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT      .     .    .   26
Objective and Size of the Credit        . . .       . .  26
Conditions for Tranche Release . . .  . . . . .  .  . . 26
Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing    .     .    .   28
Co-financing and Aid Coordination  .  . .  . . .  .  . . 29
Relations with International Financial Organizations . . 30
Technical Assistance ..............  30
Benefits and Risks        . . . . . . . . . .        . . 31
Part IV.  EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS  ............  34
IFl Arrears Clearance  ............... . . 34
External Debt Overhang. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
External Resource Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Part V.  RECOMMENDATION.. ... . . 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfo-manc, t
rf Au.h MfRmi,.l ,it... lc   n..mo nnt nthAvwiqe he disflced without World Bank auth_: 2X!



paSge No.
ANNEXES
A. Economic Indicators  .   ....... .    . . . . .  .   . 38
B. Social Indicators  . . . . .                          50
C. Government Letter of Development Policy  . .          52
D. Matrix of Actions  ... .  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .   .  64
E. Supplement&ry Credit Data Sheet  . . . . . . . .  .   . 73
F. Status of Bank Group Cperations  . .........   75



NICARUAG
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT MND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Nicaragua
Amount:                       SDR 83.5 million (equivalent to US$110 million)
Executing Aoencies:           Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy
and Development
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms with repayment in 40 years.
and ton years of grace.
E55Degription                 The proposed loan would support the Government's
structural adjustment program, which is designed
to (i) downsize and restructure the public
sector, including the privatization of state-
owned companies; (ii) reform the financial
system to improve resource allocation/
mobilization through establishment of a
competitive environment with private sector
participation; and (iii) reform the incentives
systems by eliminating barriers to private
sector entry to production and trade,
liberalizing trade, domestic price controls and
other regulations.
Benefits:                     The implementation of the structural adjustment
program would promote growth through increased
private sector participation, improved
incentives for production and a more efficient
allocation of domestic resources. It would also
increase employment opportunities and help
alleviate poverty. In addition, it would
facilitate the flow of external financing and
foreign investment.
Bisks:                        The principal risks are weaknesses in
institutional capacity to carry out the program,
resistance on the part of organized groups to
fiscal and financial restructuring, slow private
sector respoase due to uncertainty regarding the
property rights, and shortfalls in timely donor
support.



- ii -
Disbursements:                The proceeds of the loan would be disbursod in
two equal tranches of SPR 41.75 million (US$55
million equivalent) each: the first tranche
upon effectiveness (with retroactive financing
of up to SDR 41.75 million), the second tranche
after a satisfactory performance review expected
around March 1992.



REPoRT AND fEClowENDATION OF 58s PRESIDENT
OF TEI
TWIERATIONIL DOVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SOR 83.5 MILLION
TO TEE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
1.        I submit this report and recommendation on a proposed credit in the
amount of SDR 83.5 million (US$2.10 million) to the Republic of Nic_ragua. The
credit would be on standard IDA terms, with repayment in 40 years, including a
10 year grace period. The credit would support an economic recovery program
aiming to achieve economic stabilization and renewed sustainable economic
growth, as well as an improvement in living standards. The credit proposal
follows the recent decision to declare Nicaragua eligible for IDA credits
(IDA/Sec. M 91-131, dated April 16, 1991). The proposed operation would be
co-financed with concessionary funds from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDS), the Japanese Government, the German Government, and the Swiss
Government (para. 103).
2.        The IDA credit would be the first to Nicaragua since 1980.
Following the past decade of Sandinista rule, the February 1990 elections
brought the Chamorro Government to power. The new Administration approached
the Bank and IDA to support its stabilization and recovery efforts after a
six-year interruption in relations between the two institutions. Since April
1390, Bank staff visited Nicaragua on several occasions, assessed the economic
situation, and discussed with the authorities the elements of a program for
stabilization and adjustment. The Bank and IDA also coordinated donor
support, including Consultative Group meetings in Paris on December 3-4, 1990,
and May 16-17, 1991. In the latter meeting, the donors agreed on a financial
package to clear the arrears to the World Bank and the IDB. The Government
resumed debt service payments and froze the World Bank arrears at the May 1991
level. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is helping the Government to
monitor a Stabilization Program launched on March 3. 1991. A stand-by
arrangement, based on a track record of program implementation, is expected to
be presented to the IMF Board during the first half of September 1991. The
Government is also requesting Paris Club assistance for debt relief.
1.   ECONOMIC ISSUES, POLICIES.      IDA ASSIS CE    aTEGY
Background
3.        The Chamorro admin'stration inherited from the Sandinistas a
devastated econom-y. Production was well below 1980 levels, exports ran at



about half of the pre-1980 leviel, hyperinflation was about 4,700 percent in
1989, international reserves were depleted, and debt had accumulated to around
US$9 billion by late 1989. The administration has also inherited an oversized
and extremely inefficient public sector which has crowded out private sector
participation through a deep involvement in economic activities, and ownership
of productive means.  Many skilled technicians and managers had left the
country.  The tasks of achieving stability, economic revival, and the other
prerequisites for sustained growth appeared daunting.  Moreover, the economic
agenda iad to be pursued in the environment of a fragile political peace.
4.        During the preceding decade, the Sandinista government tried to
establish a centrally controlled economy. Many privately-owned undertakings
were confiscated or expropriated. The financial and external trade sectors
were nationalized. The small remaining private sector was heavily regulated.
Inappropriate macroeconomic policies and price controls distorted resource
allocation. Gross inefficiencies in resource use resulted. Public sector
expenditures trebled over the decade, reaching an average of 57 percent of GDP
in 1983-87. The Government's resort to Central Bank financing fueled an
inflation level which reached 14,300 percent in 1988. The contra war and a
United States trade embargo compounded problems. Consequently, the GDP grew
only moderately at the beginning of the 1980s. and declined every year
beginning in 1984. Table 1 illustrates the economic deterioration of the
1980s.
TAble 1 VICACU - GEOB MACDBOCONWC I10?d. 1979-1990
179-83 A1  1984  1985  l986  1987  1988  1969  1990
Annu.L teal Crowtlt fate
op                                         -2.3   -1.6  .4.1  -1.0  .0.7  -1U.0  -2.8  -4.4
Total CGeuupt5                           -6.a4    0.2  .4.:9  ..7  -2.6  -19.1  .9.9   4.2
AvWrI' Da stt ZUltad=                       S3    35   220  482   912  14.S1i  4,770  7.4i5
Ve. to Do. owet$*e 1^iation Ia            5S    30   335  747  1,347  35X451  1.489  13,490
qaont of Goode  mg                         .9.6   -1.5   0.6  -14.)   3.5  -d.7  -15.2   3.0
gtort of Goode  X aIS                      -2.4   -.8    -.1.7   -17.6  -1.0  -10.6  7.5  9.9
Rato. to oP (2)'
lloF tzrr ,.t c   (1. off. gra=*)  .15.2  .21.1  .25.9   -20.6  -22.1  -51.9    -32.8  -X3.)
R0- Cutteot coon? (*5 5?)                 -12.2  -15.0  *20.7 .19.4  -19.4  -47.7 -29.5  -31.1
Debt Indicaor. owal. utetr t Arrears (0S660)t
IbOe Ottetandig                          2.644  4.546  5.2S5  5 945  6 984  7.48  8.267  8.819
U,d1.au Long-terA DOD                   3.151   3.900  4 616 5 321  4 262  6    773  ,546  8.064
Slort.te n-DCD 2/                        495    646   637  634   722   715  722   755
Total ZOD/ports GMS ("ono)               *20    966  1.526  2.070  2.152  2.578  2.427  2.556
Total DOD/Cuivot OD(pertep )              109    161   188  210   240   659  752   796
N@e-it,@i*l PuabU Seator (A. Z of Cur. GOP)e 51
toal Ba*e60                                26.2   40.8  37.0  36.5  29.8  23.3  24.6  17.2
total up4eitare  41                        38.8   62.6   59.8    51.6  47.9  49*.  29.9  42.8
ore so :l. t end alBak *ataf e.ttaate
25          WIotfl ll   eattd e*o etcrcial debt.
3                 "oom.li1pubcU setOr (WNPS) IlDee ga gWO .ret and piblic utility et6"TprAeO.
I   Lor 1979 ihd Central Covt. Iy.
4Z 1990 eztrabudgta7 eapenditue qutaieet to 12 percent of CDP are ImlUded.
Recent Economic Develon1ents
5.          The Sandinista Government launched an emergency stabilization
package to curb hyperinflation in 1989. The program significantly reduced the
public sector deficit by halving Central Government expenditures, dramatically
cutting credit to the public sector, and frequently devaluing to create a 90



val-tif real depreciation of the Cordoba in 1989.  The program failed,
aIIh.ha.Jh inflation was temporarily reduced to 4700 percent in 1989 and the
viarrot account deficit was slightly narrowed. In early 1990, a lame duck
juve'rnment abandoned the program and pursued hignly expansionary policies. In
only three months, ,;ublic sector wages were increased by 800 percent in
nominal terms, while public sector prices remained fixed. The Central Bank
financed resulting deficits and the Cordoba appreciated by 45 percent in real
terms, as inflation accelerated.
6.          The Chamorro administration has emphasized the importance of
stabilization through a combination of fiscal and monetary policies, and the
reduction of the size and role of the government as well as reliance on market
forces. Central Government expenditures rose only by 2 percentage points of
GDP in 1990 despite a doubling of the wage bill, mainly due to the Sandinista-
inspired wage increases prior to the new Government's term. The financial
performance of the public utilities improved dramatically after prices were
increased and then indexed to the US dollar. However, the measures taken in
1990 by the Chamorro government fell significantly short of achieving
stabilizatlon. Mainly due to a decline in government revenue by 7 percentage
points of GDP, the overall public sector deficit widened to 43 percent of GDP.
Domestic bank credit increased rapidly because of deficits in state
enterprises.
7.          In May 1990, the Government introduced a second currency, the
Cordoba Oro (CO). It was pegged to the US dollar. Initially, the CO was used
as a unit of account. However, subsequently it was used to pay a part of
public sector wages. Loans and deposit rates were indexed to the CO and
interest rates became less negative in real terms because the Cordoba
continued devaluing against the US dollar (and the CO) on a weekly basis.
Nonetheless, non-market criteria continued to determine credit allocation.
The introduction of the CO in an inflationary environment also complicated
monetary management. The fact that transactions were denominated in CO and
effected in Cordobas, sped circulation of the Cordoba. Lax financial policies
combined with enforcement of parity to the US dollar also depleted scarce
international reserves.
8.          Economic performance continued to worsen throughout 1990.  This
was exacerbated by political volatilities and persisting macroeconomic
imbalances. The GDP dropped further by 4.4 percent. Inflation accelerated to
over 7,400 percent due to unchecked monetary expansion and a large fiscal
deficit. Despite improvement in export performance, the current account
deficit remained high.
9.          The most significant achievements of the Government in 1990 were
the moves toward establishing peace and reaching broad national consensus on
the main thrust of its economic policies, after an initial period of prolcnged
strikes. The consensus-building efforts culminated with an October 1990
agreement. The "Concertaci6n Econ6mica y Social* between the Government and
representatives of workers and employees secured a formal consensus on the
need to implement structural reforms, including: liberalizing trade, removing
state monopolies in the financial and foreign trade sectors, and returning
expropriated properties to their rightful owners. The Chamorro administration



demobilized and worked to reintegrate armed groups. In addition, the
Government enacted significant policy changes in the areas of tax reform,
tariff reform, and deregulation of the economy.
10.         In 1991, the Government focused on stabilization and structural
change. An extensive stabilization program was initiated on March 3. The
Government sharply devalued the exchange rate and placed scrict ceilings on
expenditures and credit expansion (paras. 22-24). The early results of the
stabilization program are encouraging in terms of drastic declines in the rate
of inflation (para. 26). The scanty available figures regarding output levels
indicate that the economic decline has been arrested and that moderate growth
may have ensued in 1991, thougn no trend can be confirmed yet.
Need for AdIjustment and Constraints
11.         The severely distorted economy requires rapid transformation of
the whole economic system away from centralized management, regulations,
public ownership and resource use, and controls to a free-market orientation
with increased private sector participation. This economic transformation has
to occur under the restraint of a major stabilization effort. Before
structural adjustment efforts can bear fruit, sustainable relative price
stability has to be established.
12.         While the Government demonstrates commitment to stabilization and
adjustment through the March 3, 1991 program and a number of steps toward
structural adjustment, the economic agenda continues to face strong
challenges.  Some of these challenges are not in the domain of straightfo-ard
economic policy. The effort to maintain consensus behind economic policids
has consumed the Government's attention and required concessions by all
economic actors regarding the content of policies. The Government, however,
has achieved consensus to date in support of the main thrust of its economic
policies.
13.         The Government faces many constraints which will continuously
test its political will and capability to implement its program for reforms.
In an environment of hyperinflation, the restoration of macroeconomic
stability necessitates drastic fiscal and monetary measures. Major
expenditure cuts are required in the public sector. This wili necessitate a
decline in the wage bill with consequences for real wages and the level of
public sector employment. Also, special care has to be taken that essentia.
government services and social sector needs are not adversely affected. The
government's revenue raising capability has to be improved significantly.
Moreover, credit for all types of activities will have to be severely
constrained. The authorities a-e working to achieve the stabilization targets
without curtailing the supply response and worsening the position of poverty-
ridden groups. Failure in this respect would erode support for Government
policies and disturb the recently acquired social and political peace.
14.         Reducing the role and share of the Rublic sector in the economy
constitutes a major challenge to the Government's adjustment efforts. First,
the central government spends almost one third of GDP. This exceeds public



- 5 -
revenues, resulting in a fiscal imbalance. Second, government ownership of
economic assets in all sectors and heavy public sector use of resources crowds
out the private sector. The public sector monopolizes the financial system,
owns a majority of the manufacturing firms, and participates in agricultural
production by owning state farms. State enterprises operate inefficiently,
are afflicted by highly politicized excess labor, and deperd on financial
resource transfer to cover operatLonal deficita. Third, little room for
private initiatives remains because the government heavily controls and
regulates the economy, as well as monopolizes trade and services. Public
sector cutbacks meet resistance from strong pressure groups opposing change.
15.         Although the central government pervades the economy, its nolicv
formulation. imnlementation and monitoring canabilities are limited.  The
deteriorated political climate has caused significant personnel losses in key
areas over the last several years. Similarly, institutioral capabilities have
eroded. Implementing demanding stabilization and structural adjuatment
programs will strain public sector capabilities. Without substantial and
immediate technical assistance, program implementation could fail.
16.         The absence of a functioning financial system presents a major
challenge to adjustment. The ineffective publicly owned financial
institutions serve merely to channel Central Bank credit to the state.
Formerly, the lack of credit discipline led to unchecked credit expansion and
almost complete noncompliance with repayment requirements. The Central Bank
has ineffectively used traditional monetary policy instruments. In addition,
there is no ef?ective supervisory agency nor prudential regulations. While a
program to restructure the financial sector has been initiated recently,
establishment of a functioning financial sector will take time.
17.         The uncertainty surrounding ironerty rights, land ownership, and
land tenure, unless remedied quickly, could endanger the Government's ability
to implement an adjustment program to obtain the necessary supply response.
Since sympathizers of the previous regime retain control of many law enforcing
offices, including the police, settling existing conflicts and enforcing
property ownership rights may prove to be difficult. The privatization of
properties confiscated or expropriated under the previous regime and
agricultural production are especially sensitive to the property rights issue.
18.         High unemnloyment, and strained labor relations also cause
concern. While economic adjustment and restored sustained growth would
increase employment in the medium to long-term, stabilization and adjustment
will require reduced public sector employment in the short-term. Decreased
employment levels and declining real wages could meet with strong resistance
from the highly politicized organized labor groups. This would cause
interruptions in production and a slowing down of economic recovery.
The government's Stratecn and Program for Stabilization and Adiustment
19.         Strateav for Renewed Growth.   The Government's strategy,
recognizing the interrelation between stabilization and structural adjustment,



- 6 -
requires carefully coordinated and sequenced actions to achieve the two goals.
Achieving macroeconomic stability in an unstable macroeconomic environment is
a precondition for successful adjustment, the authorities realize. in turn,
economic stabilization, without a significant supply response through
structural adjustment, would be short-lived.
20.         The authorities recognize that structural adjustment entails
immediate and simultaneous actions In several areas. However, proper policy
sequencing is essential not to overextend the weak administrative capability
of the Government across many areas. The authorities have sequenced their
adjustment policies such that measures which can be implemented immediately
with a relatively quick pay-off are given priority. Some examples are
deregulating the economy, removing government monopolies in domestic and
international trade, and abolishing intricate licensing practices. These
changes, coupled with the maintenance of competitive interest and exchange
rates, will encourage private sector participation.
21.         Policy measures eventually will have to be supplemented by
investment projects in productive and infrastructural sectors such as energy
and communications. Meanwhile, the Government has initiated programs to
cushion the impact of adjustment on the most vulnerable low-income groups
(para. 91) and to address the immediate needs of the poor segments of the
population.
22.         The Stabilization Psoora.   With IMF staff assistance, the
authorities prepared a stab.lization program to reduce inflation drastically.
Implementation began on March 3,1991. In the area of fiscal oolicv, the
program aimed to reduce the public sector deficit to a level that can be
financed by external grants and concessionary assistance, without recourse to
domestic credit. This required deep cuts in the recurrent expenditures from
the budget compared to 1990, and a major increase in the tax effort. No
extra-budgetary spending would be allowed in 1991. According to the program,
all public entities are denied access to net domestic bank credit in 1991.
23.         The stabil iation program calls for strict constraints on
domestic bank credit.  The Government has instructed the Central Bank not to
extend net domestic credit to the economy beyond available loanable funds.
Monthly ceilings on Central Bank credit have been established. Also, the
program aims to simplify the interest rate structure and indexes deposit and
lending rates to the dollar.
24.         The March 3, 1991 program devalued the exchange rate of the
Cordoba Oro by 4V0 percent, from lCO$ per US$ to SCO$ per US$. The Goverrnunt
also announced increases in: (i) public utility tariffs ranging from 150
percent for telephone services to 350 percent for electricity; (ii) prices of
petroleum products by about 350 percent; liquor, cigarette, and soda water
prices by 300 percent; and (iii) prices of primary food products (rice, beans,
corn, sugar, oil, milk) and soap, produced and marketed by state enterprises,
by about 300 percent. An average 200 percent wage and salary increase was
granted to public sector employees to partially offset the impact of price
increases.



-7-
25.         The ultimate success of the stabilization program will depend on
the authorities' ability to achieve demanding expenditure and revenue targets.
Through May 1991, expenditures have been limited to the targeted levels, which
are compatible with current revenue and foreign grants. Tax receipts
increased by more than 40 percent during the first five months of 1991 and
will reach the target for 1991 easily. Thus, the drop in the tax revenue in
1990 proved a transitional phenomenon, resulting from the unusual political
circumstances.
26.         During the first five months of 1991, total Central Bank credit
to the public sector and domestic financial institutions- the key factor
behind high inflation in recent years- declined. This fact and the
disbursements of foreign loans and grants led to a net increase in
international reserves of US$93 million. In addition, the consumer price
index dropped by 6 percent in May 1991 compared to April, indicating a
moderation in price levels since the initial post-devaluation upsurge of
March.
27.         The Structural adiustment Proaram.   Section II details the
Government's structural adjustment program. However, a broad outline of the
program is given in this section. The comprehensive program for structural
adjustment was finalized recently in consultation with IDA staff. The program
aims at a radical reorientation of the economy toward competitive markets and
improving incenti%es to the private sector.
28.         Fiscal policy aims to balance revenue and expenditures through
selective current expenditure cuts and improved revenue gathering by the tax
administration. To avoid fiscal account imbalances, the authorities will
continue to use cash budgeting, continuousLy adjusting monthly expenditures to
revenue. To achieve price and external reserve targets, monetary oolicv will
try to balance money supply with demand for real money balances. The
authorities will continue to constrain the Central Bank's stock of net
domestic credit. Both deposit and lending interest rates will be kept
positive in real terms. After the primary objectives of stabilization are
achieved, interest rates will be approximated to market rates (para. 76). The
Government exchance rate oolicy will be flexible in order to maintain
compezitiveness in the tradeable sector and to stimulate export
diversification. To ensure a competitive exchange rate, while adhering to
tight monetary, fiscal, and wage policies, the authorities will monitor
developments closely in order to act immediately due to changes in domestic
and external factors.
29.            The Government's program highlights reforms for the public
sector, the financial sector, and the incertives system. Public sector
reforms aim to reduce the government's size and economic involvement, while
increasing efficiency lia public services. Regarding Dublic sector
expenditures, the Government has controlled 1991 budgetary expenditures after
an unsuccessful attempt in 1990. The authorities have targeted to cover all
non-interest current expenditure with current revenue by FY93. To this end,
the Government intends to reduce non-interest current expenditures by around 7
percent in FY92. Military expenditures are marked to bear the biggest burden



-8-
of adjustment, since they are perceived to be excessive. In addressing the
public sector employment issue, the program initiated for employment reduction
through voluntary retirement in 1991, will be continued in 1992 along with
external assistance.  The Government targets the privatization of some 350
state-owned companies. Already, several companies have been privatized mostly
by returning them to their legal owner&.  The Government has a time-bound
action plan to privatize about 90 percent of state-owned companies by end
1993.
30.         The Government is moving to improve the tax administration, in
order to enhance the buoyancy of the tax system and to ensure the reliability
of tax revenues. Some measures, such as those against tax evasion, would
produce short-term results. Other measures target long-term institutional
improvements, including the training of staff.
31.         Financial sector reforms comprise a major share of the adjustment
program. The authorities are planning to introduce competition into the
financial system by including the private sector. The state-owned banks will
be either liquidated, merged, restructured or rechartered as institutions
providing services and credit to small agricultural producers and micro
enterprises. In addition, a modern and comprehensive Law of Banking and
Financial Institutions is going to be drafted to establish prudential
regulations and facilitate the use of modern banking and financial
instruments.
32.         The third component of the adjustment program aims to restore a
svstem of incentaives conducive to private sector participation in a mArket-
oriented environment. Trade liberalization measures include the gradual
lowering of nominal tariff protection to a range of 10-20 percent by end 1993.
Steps are being taken to completely open foreign trade to the private sector,
and remaining restrictions on imports are being removed and the foreign
exchange allocation mechanism is being liberalized. The discretionarl,
complex, and distorted tax system was changed significantly in the second half
of 1990. Distorting domestic reaulatorv practices would be erased by reducing
the extent of the government's involvement in the economy and changing the
regulatory framework for state-owned enterprises. Moreover, the authorities
will eliminate the remaining agricultural support prices.
Medium Term ProsDects
33.         The Nicaraguan economy has the potential to achieve fairly rapid
economic growth over the next decade. This expectation is supported by
Nicaragua's rich agricultural resources and considerable unused capacity,
indicated by a much lower than recent historical average overall output.
Also, the external markets of the last decade can be regained, particularly in
the US, now that the embargo has been lifted. Successful implementation of
the stabilization and structural adjustment policies, to be supported under
the proposed credit, would achieve recovery and sustained growth. Another
prerequisite of resumed growth is the maintenance of national peace and the
resolution of the property rights issue. The Government has intensified
efforts to resolve the potentially explosive property rights issue. With



- 9 -
private sector confldence, price stability, competitive exchange rates, and
reformed fiscal, financial and incentives systems, quick recovery and
respectable economic growth are attainable.
34.              A base case scenario has been developed which assumes that
structural adjustment measures would be implemented fully. GDP growth is
expected to turn positive in 1991 and then gradually increase to reach S
percent annual levels by 1995 and then stabilize at around 4.5 percent
annually for the remainder of the decade. Deospite positive per capita GDP
growth rates by 1993, however, private consumption per capita would recuperate
more slowly. In the transition from stabilization to the resumption of
sustaLned growth, public Lnvestment would play the dual role of buffering
initial slow growth and of improving infrastructural activities to encourage
private investment. Even with this growth performance, real GDP would only
reach early 1970s levels by 1996. More strikingly, GOP per capita levels
would not reach 1950s levels before 2000. Table 2 shows the projected
macroeconomic scenario.
ableo 2,aR4U   MM U ICtDS . 1991-.000
1991  1993  1993  1994  19i5  1990  1997   19    1999  2000
Anal ul G.rooth Rates..,
GDP                                     1.0   3.0   4.0   4.5   5.0   5.0   4.5   4.5   4.S   4.5
GOP par capita                         -2.0  -0.1   1.0   1.3   1.9   3.0   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7
llationl Accmtc (A X of Cart. DP?*
Total Coominptteo                      113.2  107.7  105.7  104.5  103.5  100.5  98.8  97.4  96.1  94.7
fizblc Co.umaptlns                    11.6  20.7  16.6  15.9  15.1  14.4  13.8  13.5  13.1  13.1
Private Coaaeua                       91.4  87.0  S9.1   8.6  87.3  86.1  85.0  63.9   8.0  81.6
Total lu.tumnt                          13.0  15.0  16.0  16.0  16.5  16.5  16.3  16.0  16.0  16.0
Publuc Su.et u*t 11                   8.0     .    7.4    7.5   6.5   5.5   4.7   4.6   4.6   4.5
Privat  Svtt                           4.0   3.7   8.0 6    .S  10.0  11.0  11.6  11.  11.4  11.5
Zap.:: of Coo" & OS                    28.0  30.7 #2.1  33.6  33.7  35.1  36.   37.8  38.7  39.6
luj.ort. of CGood* I IS                53.1  53.4  53.7  53.1  53.6  53.1  51.7  $1.   50.7  50.3
Ge  .. Dotic Saving                   -13.2  -7.7    .?57   .4.5  -2.5  .0.5   1.3   2.6   3.9   5.3
Ron Y5acWl Public Sector (hA 2 of Core. am?)I
ttal Cut      3a  32.4  33.5  33.7  23.9  23.3  23.0  22.7  22.5  22.0  22.0
Total Currvt EapOnditur.e              27.8  34.9  21.7  X0.8  19.8   18.   18.0  17.5  17.0  16.8
Capital Zzvau6itta.a                    7.0   7.7   7.6   7.7   6.7   5.7   4.9   4.8   4.$   4.7
8:1al 1s*.L *                          -13.3  .8.9  .5.4   .4.4  .1.9  -1.3   0.0   0.3   0.5   0.7
Balance of Paymeatet
Enpor. of coo"a  a US                   I.9   8.7   0.0   6.9   8.5   s.0   7.    7.6   6.4   6.4
lsarta of Goods &                        .6    .1   3.9   3.0   3.9   3.3   3.0   3.0    3.0   3.0
(As o of Current GDP)
Reource Be .4o                       .25.2  .22.7  .31.6  -20.5  -18.9  -16.9  -15.0  .13.3  -12.0  -10.7
Cu rrat Account - Sntre t paYt. 21     13.0  .IS.1  -17.5  -16.7  -15.5  -13.9  *12.3  .11.0  .10.0  -9.0
MM$IQ GDF in tlS$ MUt.                 1.421  1.489  1,578  1,714  1."88  3.065  2.336  3.444  2.666  2,909
1/ Include* UPP outtrpris.
2/ tIclude. offcial grantu to 1991.
Sourcea W etaff .stt t-a.
35.             As shown in the table,  modest growth ls expected for 1991.   Thie
growth estimate  is based on the predicted rapid reductlon in Lnflation,
existence of algnificant excess capacity,  and new opportunities  in the
external sector. The stabilization program launched in early March 1991, has
produced positive results already. The public sector carries the burden of
adjustment, leaving room for increasing credit to the prlvate sector even in
the short run. Structural policy measures encouraging private sector
particlpation in production and trade have been initiated. Foreign trade was



- 10 -
opened to the private sector in early 1991, and currently private traders are
participating. Moreover, a full year's effect of the removal of the US trade
embargo in 1990 will be felt in 1991. The agricultural frontier has grown
since the end of the war, and there has been a massive transfer of idle
agricultural land to ex-military personnel and former resistance fighters.
The authorities expect a 25 percent increase in the production of basic grains
this year.
36.         The effects of structural reforms to improve resource
allocation/mobilization and increase production of tradeables will take time.
Moreover, private investment is expected to grow slowly. Although Nicaragua,
a small economy, can be integrated rapidly into world markets, structural
reform implementation will cause a lag in growth. Structural change will
occur quickly in the trade and domestic deregulation areas because the main
task there is to eliminate policy imposed barriers to production and trade.
These reforms are expected to be installed by the end of 1993. However,
financial sector reform will be more complex. It involves the difficult task
of restructuring the state-owned banks. Similarly, the supervisory
institutions and the privately-owned banks require time to be fully
functional. Therefore, relatively high, stable GDP growth is not expected
until 1995.
37.         Maintaining a competitive exchange rate, in addition to far
reaching trade liberalization and elimination of entry barriers to the private
sector, will alleviate the anti-export bias and allow for a significant
increase in exports in the medium-term. Overall exports of goods and non-
factor services are expected to reach approximately US$660 million by 1996,
growing at an real average annual rate of 8.6 percent between 1992 and 1996.
This would be realized mostly through an increase in traditional exports,
mainly coffee, cotton, and beef, products that will account for nearly half of
total exports throughout the nineties. Coffee exports are expected to grow 10
percent annually, as a consequence of a slight Increase in the cultivated
area, and considerable increases in yields, reaching levels observed in other
countries of the region. However, only in 1996 will the export volumes of the
seventies be reached again. Cotton exports are expected to grow at high rates
due to an increase in the cultivated area. Even with these favorable
prospects, by the year 2000, export volumes would still be 20 percent below
the 1970.' levels. Beef exports should grow steadily at a slow pace, given
the small number of cattle for slaughter. On account of less favorable
outlook in world markets, sugar will lose its 14 percent share of exports in
1992 to 11 percent in 1996. Export volumes of bananas will grow fast, due to
favorable price prospects and the possibility of entering the American and
European markets. An expansion in the cultivated area for banana is expected
both in the short and long run. The seafood sector has good export prospects,
since almost all exports are based on fishing rather than on shrimp and
lobster aquaculture. However, because of overexploitation in some areas,
export volumes will continue to be below levels twenty years earlier. With
measures to increase profitability, non-traditional exports, especially agro-
industrial products, are expected to increase at an annual rate of nearly 10
percent. In the case of imports, trade liberalization will not imply a
massive increase, provided that the Government maintains a competitive
exchange rate.



- 11 -
IDA Assistance Strateoy
38.         The present crisis, with its political, economic and social roots,
presents formidable challenges to the implementation of a viable economic
recovery and adjustment program. Like most IDA only countries, Nicaragua
faces extreme poverty, a host of policy shortcomings, and weak institutions as
it attempts to pre-condition sustained growth. However, Nicaragua faces three
additional problems that compound the difficulty of its reform effort and
argue for an exceptionally high level of concessionary support from multi- and
bilateral donors. The first is that Nicaragua is emerging from a ten year
military conflict that destroyed the country's physical and institutional
infrastructure, diverted a high percentage of government expenditures to
military uses, and contributed to a significant brain drain - amounting to
some 10 percent of the population - mostly of professional and skilled labor.
The war left large numbers of displaced and handicapped people that will
strain government services for many years. The second additional difficulty
is that the Chamorro Government is trying to dismantle completely the command
economy from the 1980s. This means breaking down the state monopolies in
internal and external commerce, rebuilding the insolvent financial sector,
restoring property rights, returning businesses and agricultural holdings to
the private sector, enacting major legislative and judicial reforms, and
reducing the size of the state. Finally, the Government faces an
extraordinarily high external debt burden and financing requirements over the
next decade. Also, as of early 1991, Nicaragua's accumulated total arrears
stood at $3.2 billion, more than twice the 1990 GDP. Though the Government
has taken important steps to renegotiate its debt, this debt overhang remains
constraining.
39.         IDA must play a decisive role in both providing direct assistance
and in mobilizing and coordinating adequate levels of donor support. Drawing
on its comparative advantage, IDA will focus its assistance on: (i) helping
first to address key macroeconomic and structural policy issues through quick
disbursing operations; (ii) consolidating the reform process through a gradual
shift to sector operations to support the Government's objectives of
increasing the efficiency of resource use in the public sector, rehabilitating
physical infrastructure and human resource development, and strengthening the
private sector; and (iii) using the special IDA facilities to help improve
creditworthiness and thereby contribute to restoring private capital flows.
In leading the Consultative Group, IDA will seek to complement its financial
support by: (i) helping organize and direct urgently needed technical
assistance to support the Government's adjustment efforts; and (ii) assisting
the Government to mobilize additional concessional resources. In order to
enhance both these efforts, a Resident Mission will be established in
Nicaragua later in 1991. This will back the Government in its implementation
of the program and provide a direct line of communication in Nicaragua for the
donor community.
40.         This assistance addresses strategic issues critical to the
realizat0.on of the government's economic development goals. Most importantly,
there is a need to: (i) develop and implement an appropriate mix and sequence
of adjustment and investment actions, including those for urgent
infrastructure rehabilitation; (ii) strengthen the enabling environment for



- 12 -
private sector activities to ensure progress in the ongoing process of
privatization; (iii) define and implement policies to address the structural
causes of poverty; (iv) overcome the limited implementation capacity of the
public administration through efficient use of external technical assistance
and measures to attract qualified expatriates back to Nicaragua; and (v)
promote the efficiency and effectiveness of external resource mobilization,
given the likely dependence of Nicaragua on external aid in the medium term.
41.         Given the need for profound structural reforms and to ensure a
rapid tranafer of resources, the bulk of the IDA funds initially will be made
available through quick disbursing, policy-based credits. These policy-based
operations will be designed to attract cofinancing or parallel financing in
order to maximize external resource mobilization. The magnitude of the base
case IDA lending program is determined by the amount of available IDA
resources. In consideration of the special circumstances facing the country,
Nicaragua has obtained a special allocation from IDA under the Ninth
Replenishment, for the three year period FY92 - FY94. For FY95 and FY96, the
requirement for IDA funds would be reduced, as the external balance of the
country is expected to improve.
42.         Upon successful implementation of the proposed Economic aecoverY
Cre-dit (ERC), a follow-up structural adjustment credit is proposed for early
FY93 to help the Government to deepen the adjustment process. Like the
proposed ERC, this second IDA credit is expected to be supported through
cofinancing and/or parallel lending from other donors on concessionary terms.
Based on an intensive and weSl-focussed economic and sector work program (see
para. 44), sectoral operations also would be prepared for Board presentation
as soon as basic macroeconomic reform had occurred and the adjustment process
was in place. Depending on the size of the available IDA resources, pivotal
operations in the social sector, agriculture and infrastructure are being
considered for the period FY92-FY94. The former is essential to poverty
alleviation and human resource development, and the latter two credits are
critical to achieving sustained growth and a resurgent private sector. For
FY9S or FY96, an environmental project is envisaged. Both the *fifth and
sixth dimension" IDA facilities could be utilized to broaden the assistance
program, encourage greater concessionary flows from other donors, and
strengthbn burden sharing.
43.         This IDA credit strategy is designed both to support the
Government's objective of economic reform and to marshall the external
resources needed to carry out this demanding agenda. It is critical, however,
that the program "stay on track." Should significant policy slippages occur,
a reassessment would be made of IDA's assistance role in Nicaragua. Under
such circumstances, IDA might be able to consider a much reduced level of core
credit operations focussing on the alleviation of poverty and on the
environment.
44.         To establish a sound analytical framework for the proposed future
operations and continuation of the policy dialogue, an expanded economic and
sector work program will restore the Sank's knowledge of the Nicaraguan
economy following the lapse in relations in the early 1980.. A Public Sector
Expenditure Review is currently being undertaken which will be followed later



- 13 -
in FY92 by reviews of the social sector, agriculture and infrastructure
issues. In FY92-FY96, work would focus on (i) the mix and sequence of
adjustment actions (through studies on the financial sector, public sector
decentralization and the regulatory framework); (Ui) reactivation of the
private sector; (iii) poverty issues; and (iv) the environment.
45.         For the past year, the Consultative Group has  ocussed on
emergency assistance, the government's economic recovery effort, and
mechanisms for clearing arrears to the International Financial Institutions.
In the medium-term, the donor community faces the difficult tasks of
supporting the reform effort, and helping to close the financing gap of about
US$425 million per year (see para. 123). Recent bilateral support has
focussed on balance of payment support, but will shift in the future to areas
such as private sector development, education, municipal development, and
natural resources.
46.         Currently, IFC has two investments in Nicaragua, a sugar
plantation and a hotel in Managua. The corporation is exploring, with both
local and foreign private sector sponsors, the possibility of developing
projects primarily in mining, aquaculture, and private energy generation.
II    THE GOVERMT'S STRUCTURAL ADJS2ME  PROGPAM
47.         The proposed ERC would support the Government's policies contained
LA the Structural Adjustment Program, which was designed in close cooperation
with IDA. The program aims to reorient the economy toward competitive markets
and improving incentives for private sector participation. The policies to be
supported under the ERC are mainly in three specific areas, including: (i)
public sector size and efficiency, (Ui) the financial system; and (iii) the
system of incentives. The program is described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (Annex C). The details of the program in each general area
are given below.
Public Sector Reforms
48.           The Government's overall strategy toward organizing the economy
and economic growth necessitates a major change in the public sector's role.
While the state sector is expected to reduce its involvement in the economy in
terms of ownership and regulatory responsibilities, the resources channeled
through the public sector also must be reduced. Under the public sector
reform, the program addresses issues that relate to public expenditures and
revenue, public sector employment, and privatization.
49.         The resources used in gublic sector exrenditures are considerably
higher than internationa'. and regional norms and are inconsistent with the
Government's adjustment strategy. In 1990, for example, central government
expenditures, excluding interest payments and activities of public utilities
and other public enterprises, were around one third of GDP. As a result, the



- 14 -
potential growth of the private sector was crowded out, the public sector was
burdened by large management responsibilities, and the resulting fiscal
balances were unsustainable due to shortfalls in revenue performance.
50.         The distribution of public expenditures between current and
capital expenditures raises additional issues. For 1991, approximately 88
percent of projected budgetary expenditures are recurrent, leaving only about
12 percent for capital expenditures. Personnel-related expenditures comprise
nearly 50 percent of current expenditures.
51.         The authorities already have reduced the size of current budget
expenditures. Cuts were effected in the 1991 budget compared to the (budgeted
and non-budgeted) expenditures of the central governmernt in 1990 (para. 22).
The objective is to establish a balance between the revenue and non-interest
current expenditures of the Central Government by 1993. Beginning in 1994,
the central government is expected to be a net saver in its non-interest
current account transactions. As a first step, the authorities have prepared,
prior to Board presentation, a FY92 budget which reduces current expenditures
to US$325 million equivalent in 1992 (para. 97 A.(i)). This corresponds to a
current expenditure budget which is about 7 percent lower in current dollar
terms in 1992. The level of current expenditxres will be reduced by another 9
percent in 1993. The implied deficit of the central government is entirely
consistent with anticipated donor grants and balance of payments assistance.
Therefore, the envisaged fiscal adjustment would support the objective of
price stability. The authorities are prepared to make further downward
adjustments in expenditures ro maintain the fiscal balance if there is a
downfall in anticipated resources.
52.         In the FY92 budget to be adopted by the Government, non-interest
current expenditures would not exceed US$325 million equivalent (second
tranche release condition; para. 97 B.(i)), compared with US$338 million
equivalent in FY91. (This latter figure represents a major reduction in the
FY91 budget adopted by the Assembly, and is in line with the targets of the
stabilization program.) The budget reductions should be through carefully
targeted expenditure cuts rather than across-the-board cuts. Therefore,
savings will have to come through selected reductions in government
activities. In the current budget, the projected expenditures in 1991
indicate a 45 percent decline in real terms in military spending and a 25
percent reduction in spending on internal security, compared to 1990. In the
FY92 budget, with further cuts in the military expenditures, the share of
civilian expenditures is expected to be around 87 percent of the non-interest
current expenditures. While this corresponds to a 1 percent increase in the
relative share of civilian expenditures, these are being reduced by the
equivalent of US$16 million between 1991 and 1992. Expenditure reductions on
vehicle maintenance and operation, water and utilities, and other areas will
affect all spending units. Also, certain transfers from the budget, such as
salary supplements, will be reduced. To achieve a more comprehensive
expenditure restructuring, the authorities are undertaking a public
expenditure review, with IDA assistance. The size, sectoral composition and
distribution, and the Institutional aspects of public expenditures will be
reviewed. Agreement on implementing the recommendations of the public



- ;5 -
expenditure review will provide the basis for the further restructuring of
public expenditures (second tranche release condition; para. 97 S. (i)).
53.         The Government will also undertake medium-term measures to
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the line ministries and central
ministries for better expenditure planning. Shortcomings exist in the current
expenditure planning and monitoring practices. For example, links between the
Ministry of Finance and the spending ministries in budget collaboration are
unclear. A relevant macroeconomic framework for the preparation of a given
year's budget is also missing. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance does not
sufficiently monitor expenditures, except for a hoc decisions on cuts. Other
institutional issues involve the inadequacy of budgetary formats, the lack of
public expenditures coverage other than of the central government, and the
process of project selection in the public sector. These issues will be
addressed in the context of the public expenditure review (para. 44).
54.         Public sector emplovment requires particular attention.  Without a
significant reduction in employees, expenditure restructuring objectives
cannot be fully met. As a result of political pressures stemming from strong
unionization under the previous administration, public sector employment
swelled, particularly in low skill areas. As of end 1990, approximately
69,000 people were employed by the central government and more than 75,000
workers were employed in state enterprises. Public sector salaries are high
for unskilled workers and relatively low for technical levels. This has
induced a substantial outflow of skilled workers, leaving the public sector
with an extremely large over-paid and unskilled labor force. Though
unionization is illegal for public employees, this restriction was
circumvented by the previous Government with the formation of the National
Association of Employees, a de facto union. This Association obtained
extremely generous wage increases in the last months of the former regime and
exerts strong political pressure for wage increases. The Association has also
extracted a concession in the Concertacion Agreement which restricts the
dismissal of government employees (para. 9).
55.         To surmount labor market rigidities, the Government has introduced
an Employment Reconversion Program (with direct funding from the USAID) to
release about 9,000 of the 69,000 central government employees, with an
additional reduction of 3,000 In the defense sector during 1991. A reduction
of this size would reduce the share of the central government budget in GDP by
about two percent. The initial reaction of the employees to this voluntary
retirement program has been encouraging. The processing of voluntary
employment reduction in the public sector for 8,000 personnel has been
completed prior to Board presentation (para. 97 A. (ii)). The Government has
now agreed with USAID to include the general public sector, including the
banking sector, in the Employment Reconversion Program. The Government plans
to continue the Employment Reconversion Program in 1992, with a stronger focus
on state-owned financial institutions, public utility companies, and state
enterprises. This second phase of the program to be implemented in 1992,
which is also expected to be funded by the USAID, aims to reduce public sector
employment by an additional 10,000 people. At the same time, the Government
will implement a freeze on hiring new employees to replace those who leave the



- 16 -
services through retirement and resignation. It will continue also to
gradually raise the work day to eight hours in the public sector.
56.         The recovery and maintenance of government revenue will play a key
role in the feasibility of attaining the stabilization targets, as well as in
assuring non-inflationary financing of the government programs. Major
improvements are necessary to overcome the weakness of tax administratiQn.
The General Directorate of Revenues and the General Directorate of Customs
lack the organizational structure and the human capital base to implement a
much-needed modernization program for tax administration. The high
concentration of tax collections demonstrates tax administration weakness. In
1989, 84 percent of total tax collection was concentrated in 125 taxpayers.
92 percent of Selective Consumption Tax (SCT) collection was from 10 taxpayers
mainly in fiscal industries, such as cigarettes and liquor. Tax collection is
still heavily dependent on ad-hoc applications of SCT and the General Value
Tax (GVT).
57.         The Government has been working on a program to improve tax
administration which will include organizational and procedural changes, as
well as the formation of a team of well-trained specialists in tax
administration, improving the judiciary process, and raising penalties for tax
evasion. The Government has initiated an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to
improve tax administration (para. 97 A. (iii)). The Government has set up a
separate unit within the General Directorate of Revenue to administer closely
the taxes collected from the 280 largest taxpayers. This separate unit, will
serve as a pilot project for the development of a modernized tax
administration system. The experience from this operation will be extended to
the entire system. Also, several customs posts recently have been relocated
closer to the frontiers in order to improve collection.
58.         The program for improving tax administration and enforcement
includes both short and long-term steps. The authorities are planning by
October 1991 to distribute and implement simplified tax declaration/payment
forms and procedures, decree stricter sanctions for tax evasion and delinquent
practices of businesses, and to revise the penalty structure for tax evasion
and delayed tax payments based on the fiscal cost of the infraction and the
lateness of payments. All tax administration and enforcement measures, as
well as the full operation of the unit for large taxpayers, form a second
tranche release condition (para. 97 B. (ii)). The customs valuation lists
will be revised to reflect the changes in value, and will be updated on a
monthly basis.
59.         The above measures will provide a more reliable basis for tax
assessment and enforcement. These short to medium-term measures will be
supplemented by measures addressing the main institutional weaknesses in tax
administration. To this end, the authorities are trying to develop automated
management control systems and a computerized taxpayer identification system.
l9so, programs are being designed to train Internal Revenue and Customs
personnel. A project for technical assistance is under negotiation with the
IDB. The Government will finalize the arrangements for technical assistance
by March 1992, hire consultants, and start implementing the project to improve



- 17 -
tax administration. Initiation of these long-term programs is a second
tranch release condition (para. 97 S. (ii)).
60.         In addition to 15 public utilities, the new Government inherited
approximately 350 companies engaged in various activities ranging from
agricultural production to manufacturing, and from mining to trade services.
These companies are collectively known as the Area de Propiedad del Pueblo
(APP). The larger enterprises in APP were expropriated from the Somoza family
while others were acquired as a result of the agrarian reform, the
confiscation of assets "abandoned* by their owners, and through other means.
The Government's strategy is to privatize APP companies, but retain ownership
of public utilities.
61.         There is considerable scope for improvement in the performance of
publig utilities. Since they lack an overall regulatory framework, piecemeal
distortional interventions are the norm. Public utilities have been given
autonomy to set the tariffs for the services they provide, without having a
framework to define their operation as natural monopolies. This allows them
to pass on their inefficiencies and to realize monopoly rents at the expense
of consumers and producers. They are also exempted from income taxes and from
taxes on goods and services, including trade taxes. organized power
structures and political agendas in these enterprises still remain highly
influential. In additLon, management capabilities and technical skills are
scarce and capital stock is run-down.
62.         The necessary major restructuring of the public utilities will be
based on the recommendations of a study to be conducted by the Government with
grant funding and IDA support. The recommandations would help establish a
regulatory framework defining the relations between the government and
enterprises based on the principles of autonomy and accountability. The
review would cover the establishment of efficient pricing practices for
natural monopolies and would investigate the possibilities of competitive
contracting-out alternatives to improve accountability in the operation of
public utilities. Other areas include upgrading of management capabilities,
improving the human capital base of public utilities, assessLng production
capabilities to create a minimum investment program for upgrading them, and
preparing action plans for implementation. The study is expected to be
initiated before March 1992. Its conclusions and recommendations may be
included in the follow-up structural adjustment credit (para. 42).
63.         In addition to public utilities, the core economic activities in
the country were nationalized by the former government, and put under APP.
State control of production led to heavy political intervention, contraction
of production, technological backwardness and excessive employment in both
manufacturing and agriculture. By conservative estimates, more than 30
percent of GDP was produced by state enterprises, excluding those in the
financial sector. The state controlled 45 percent of value added in
manufacturing, 70 percent in mining, and a smaller portion in agriculture.
64.         The orivatization of the APP enterprises is a major component of
the Government's strategy for structural adjustment. Privatization involves
the sale of companies legally owned by the government, the return of



- 18 -
confiscated companies to their legal owners, and liquidation. By divesting
these entitios, the Government aims to reduce the share of the public sector
in the economy, lessen its administration and management responsibilities, and
earn additional revenue for the budget. The combination of a smaller role for
the state and a reinvigorated private sector in a competitive framework is
expected to create efficiency gains and employment. One of the earlier steps
taken by the new Government was to net up Junta General de Corporaciones
Nacionales del Area Pfiblica (CORNAP) and charge it with carrying out the
privatization process.
65.         The process of preparing these companies for privatization has
proven to be difficult and time consuming due to legal, technical, political,
and financial considerations. A major obstacle to privatizing the non-
agricultural companies has been the procedure for determining whether the
Government legitimately owns a company. The former administration established
de fagto ownership of a number of companies without going through channels
that are now regarded as legitimate. Consequently, the legal ownership status
of each company has to be determined before CORNAP can either dispose it or
return it to its former owner. This task, together with the work required to
establish a data base on the companies under its umbrella, have occupied most
of CORNAP's management time and resources. In addition, the Government's
sensitivity to the demands of the labor employed by these companies has been a
factor slowing down the process.
66.         After a lengthy preparation period, CORNAP has developed a broad
privatization strategy which has been adopted by the Government (para. 97 A.
(v)). out of about 350 companies covered by this strategy, 152 are candidates
for privatization through sale to private parties. Of the remaining
companies, around 70 are to be returned to their legal owners, 50 are to be
liquidated, more than 30 are to be assigned to some government departments,
and the rest are to be partly privatized and partly returned to private
owners. To date, 86 companies have been divested, of which, 23 given back to
previous owners, 34 partly privatized and partly returned to owners, 26 either
liquidated or assigned to ministries, and 3 fully privatized. The most
important action completed involved privatization of three large-scale
agricultural corporations, including the HATONIC (the largest cattle
operation), AGROEXCO (agricultural export company), and CAPEI1C (coffee
growing and processing). The properties of these corporations were
distributed among the previous owners, workers, army retirees, and the
demobilized resistance forces, based on agreement betweers the parties involved
and the Government.
67.         The Government's program will include 90 percent of state-owned
companies in the privatization process by end-1993. The authorities have
identifLed interim targets for mid-March 1992. By that date the process of
divestiture will be completed in an additional 75 %ompanies, out of which 25
companies will be fully privatized, while devolution or liquidation will be
completed in the remaining 50 companies. Finally, another 30 companies wll
also have been prepared for sale by the same date (second tranche release
condition; para. 97 B. (iii)). Once these interim targets are achieved, the
relative importance of the state-owned companies in total GDP will decline
from about 30 percent to less than 10 percent.



- 19 -
F&nsanial SetorF Refom
68.         The Government considers financial sector reform to be central to
the adjustment process and the stabilization effort because it has
implications for resource allocation and money creation. Changes in
production incentives implemented through the structural adjustment polices
will create a demand for financial services that the existing state owned
financial system cannct meet. A stronger and more diversified financial
system concentrated in the private sector must develop based on free-market
principles.
69.         By 1979, Nicaragua had one of the most advanced financial systems
in Central America. A mix of state, private national, and foreign subsidiary
banks offered many financial services, including eight deposits, term
deposits, transfers, and insurance. Even the inefficient state institutions
earned positive rents during the period, while barriers to entry in the
financial system created high rents for the more efficient private sector.
After taking power in July 1979, the Sandinista government progressively
changed the structure of the financial system by eliminating private sector
financial institutions, transferring control of state bank operations to a
holding company (which evolved into the Corporacifn Financiera de Nicaragua,
CORFIN), and progressively reducing to five, the number of financial
institutions: Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BND), Banco Nicaragiense de
Industria y Comercio (BNIC), Banco Popular (BP), Banco Inmobiliario (BIN), and
the investment lending institution Fondo Nicaragllense de Inversion (FNI).
70.         The state-owned banks were also functioning in specific sectors.
BND serviced the agriculture and livestock sectors, BNIC the induetrial and
commercial sectors, BP the small scale sector, and BIN the housing sector. The
complete specialization of the banks in 1985 further reduced management
incentives to improve the quality or efficiency of their operations. Managers
rolled over poor or nonperforming loans to maintain the flow of financial
resources to targeted sectors. Moreover, periodic Government forgiveness or
rescheduling of overdue loans and persistently negative real interest rates on
loans eliminated any incentive for management to seek high return projects for
their investments.
71.         A cornerstone of the Government's program to reform the financial
system is a restructurina of the state owned banks, along with the cessation
of Central Bank subsidies and discounts. The Government initiated an
evaluation of the state banks to outline a restructuring program, which has
been adopted (para. 97 A. (vii)). The plan includes the following objectives:
(i) a rechartering of BND and BP to noncommercial institutions within two
years; (ii) the liquidation or merger of BIN with BNIC (second tranche release
condition; para. 97 8. (iv)); (iii) the downsizing and restructuring of BNIC
as a commercial banking institution; (iv) the restoration of FN1 to a second
tier institution; and (v) the dissolution of CORFIN (second tranche release
condition; para. 97 B. (iv)). The rechartered BND and BP institutions would
be financed by external grants and domestic resources, and would deliver
technical and financial services for agricultural development and small scale
industry, respectively. Initiation of these steps is a second tranche release
condition (para. 97 B. (iv)). The Government is aware of the importance of



- 20 -
eliminating special support to the putlic banks to attract competitive and
universal private sector banks to Nicaragua in the short-term.
72.         The Government has emphasized laying the legal and regulatory
groundwork for a now Superintendency of the banking system. In April 1991 a
law to create the Superintendency and Financial Institutions was passed.
Regulations recently adopted address the ahortcomings in that law by reducing
the discretionary powers of the Superintendency. The regulations will also
reduce potential political interference in the functions of the Superintendent
stemming from the role of the Superintendency 8oard (mainly composed of
Cabinet Ministers) in the decision-making process. A Superintendent was
appointed and operations of the Superintendency were initiated, both
satisfactory to IDA, pr,or to Board presentation (para. 97 A. (vi)).
According to the Government's plans, by October 1991, the Superintendent will
have issued normatives to initiate private banking operations, and by December
1991, the Superintendent will have approved at least two applications for
private banks (second tranche release condition; para. 97 S. (iv)).
73.         The legal framework to establish a private sector financial system
will be completed by creating a modern and comprehensive Law of Banking and
Financial Institutions. This law will replace the outdated 1963 banking law
and will authorize the privatization of state-owned banks. Until the law is
drafted and implemented, the Superintendent will have to issue provisional and
partial prudential regulations in order to issue licenses in the financial
sector. The Government recognizes the urgency of completing the law as soon
as possible. A draft law wiil be presented to the national assembly early
next year (second eranche release condtitOn; para. 97 B. (iv)).
74.         The Government recognizes that prolonging the current system of
interest rate controls both precludes development of strong and diversified
private sector banking institutions and major improvement in resource
allocation. However, an immediate liberalization of interest rates while the
economy is stabilizing, could disrupt economic activity and discourage the
evolution of stable financial institutions. Therefore, the Government plans
to pursue an interest rate reform with the following objectives: (i)
maintenance of positive real interest rates in the short-term; (ii)
introduction of a flexible interest rate policy by March of 1992; and (iii)
gradual liberalization of interest rates for all financial institutions with
the development of a multibar.k system under Superintendency supervision.
7S.         The Government introduced a new interest rate policy in April
1991. At that time, deposit rates were established at 12 percent and indexed
to the US dollar. Short-term lending rates were unified and indexed to the
dollar at 18 percent. A second 30-day deposit instrument was introduced
without indexation at 25 percent interest. The rate of interest has been
progressively reduced since that time. Between April 11 and April 30, 1991,
the Government attracted 47 million cordobas oro through the 30-day deposit
instrument. The interest rate on this window of operations will continue to
be reduced on a monthly basis as the rate of inflation declines.
76.         Until stabilization is achieved and a fully functioning system is
completed, the authorities will continue to manage interest rates, but with



- 21 -
greater flexibility. By March of next year, the Government intends to
implement the next stage of its interest liberalization policy. Thi stage
includes completely freeing deposit rates, maintaining a band on lendir- -ates
equivalent to interest rates on loans of similar maturity in the US adj.-.. iad
for country and currency risk, and pursuing a rediscount policy which
maintains a uniform rate on rediacounts higher than the average financial
system interest rate prevailing on deposits. These measures will encourage
banks to compete for deposits and borrowers.
Reogrms of Svstem of Incentives
77.         The Government strategy will also focus on the system of
incentives. Policy changes in the areas of trade regime, tax structure, and
the domestic regulatory framework are needed. The Government inherited a
trade reaime under which foreign trade was practically closed to the private
sector. Incentives were significantly biased toward import substitution. The
old incentives system, coupled with exchange controls and arbitrary variations
in the real exchange rate, has caused a decrease in the production of
tradeables and a reduction of exports to 50 percent of their 1978 level.
During the past decade, most international trade was performed by the state
trading companies. These companies monopolized exports of traditional
products (coffee, cotton, sugar, bananas, cattle, precious metals, seafood and
forestry products), and accounted for up to 98 percent of exports in some
years.
78.         On the import side, state-owned trading companies administered
trade with the Eastern block and imports of international donations. In 1989,
these companies accounted for 56 percent of total imports, including a
monopoly on imports of oil and fertilizers. Import quotas and prohibitions
existed only for basic grains and related products, while some export quotas
and prohibitions applied to forestry, fisheries, and cattle. Private parties
were marginally involved in foreign trade under discretionary
allocation/retention of foreign exchange within a system of multiple exchange
rates and arbitrary trade credit rationing. Private importers had to register
officially at the Ministry of External Trade and had to get specific import
permits from the Central Bank. Nominal import protection was nontransparent
and widely differentiated. It ranged from 4 percent to 253 percent, averaging
48 percent.
79.         The Government has moved boldly to liberalize and deregulate
trade. After the drastic devaluation of the exchange rate, beginning March 3,
1991, foreign exchange allocation mechanisms were liberalized significantly.
Importers need neither ministerial nor Central Bank permits to have aciess to
foreign exchange. All exporters, except cotton and coffee exporters, have
full access to the foreign exchange that they generate. The state trading
monop)lies, which controlled virtually all export and most import trade during
the 1980s, were eliminated by a decree in January, 1991, opening trade to
private sector participation.
80.         The authorities have also reduced trade protectionism and
increased trade regime transparency. The ceiling on tariffs was reduced to 20



- 22 -
percent, and most of the administratively granted import tariff exemptions
were elaiinated. Transparency was increased by eliminating the SCT for
domestic production and keeping it as an import surcharge for most imports.
These measures lowered the nominal protection range to 3-143 percent and the
average protection to 18 parcent, the second lowest in Central America. The
dispersion was also lowered. Now 66 percent of tariff positions vary between
3 percent and 40 percent.
81.         The Government recently announced the next steps for a coherent
medium-term program of trade liberalization and deregulation. In accordance
with this program, the Government has reduced nominal import protection to a
10-60 percent range, by a combination of changes in the SCT and tariffs prior
to Board presentation (para. 97 A. (viii)). Only medicines, newsprint and
books will be exempted from the 10 percent tax/tariff. Also, prior to Board
presentation: (i) the Government has made a public announcement specifying
that, by December 1993, nominal import protection will be reduced to 10-20
percent range, while the SCT and the stamp tax will be eliminated (para. 97 A.
(viii)); (ii) the Government has approved regulations to ensure automatic
registration for imports and exports (para. 97 A. (ix)). According to the
program, by March 1992, nominal import protection will be further reduced to
the range of 10-40 percent. This will be a second tranche release condition
(para. 97 B. (v)); and (1ii) to lower nominal import protection dispersion and
increase tax collections, the Government has established a timetable,
satisfactory to IDA, to eliminate indirect tax exemptions including import tax
exemptions and has removed income tax exemptions (para. 97 A. (iv)).
82.         Regarding agricultural trade liberalization, the authorities have
designed a price-based mechanism with variable levies for rice, yellow corn,
and white maize (para. 97 A. (x)). The mechanism will be implemented before
March 1992. Simultaneously, all remaining quantitative restrictions on food
and grain imports will be eliminated prior to second tranche release (para. 97
B. (vi)). The Government's trade liberalization program will establish free-
trade status for exporters by exempting them from import and domestic indirect
taxes through a decree on export promotion which will be fully applied by
March 1992. To liberalize the foreign exchange market, the same decree will
eliminate foreign exchange surrender requirements for exporters.
83.         The new Government inherited a highly discretionary, complex, and
severely distorted tax syst   that compounded distortions in the trade regime.
The Corporate Income Tax (CIT) had highly differentiated and high marginal
rates, ad hoc exemptions, and incentives. The Personal Income Tax (PIT)
system compounded the above distortions through multiple bases, excessive
brackets, extremely high marginal rates, double taxation of dividends, and
exemptions for interest income. The GVT aimed to be a value added tax, but
because of its multiple exemptions, multiple rates, and weak administration,
arbitrary distortions throughout the economic system resulted. The SCT
exacerbated distortions because it was applied to about 700 goods with
differential (higher) rates for imports and extremely high rates for the
fiscal industries (soft drinks, beers, rums, cigarettes, and oil derivatives).
84.         During the second half of 1990, the new Government enacted a broad
tax reform to address most of the above distortions. It rationalized the



- 23 -
incme tax regime by eliminating some tax exemptions and most fiscal
Incentives. To do this, the Government unified the CIT rate and equalized it
to the maximum PIT rate at 38.5 percent. The PIT was simplified and changed
to a global base. To increase the income tax base, the Government implemented
new presumptive lncome tax collectlon methods. The GVT base was extended to
additional servlces and the rate was raised and unified at 1S percent. The
SCT was elLminated for all but the fiscal industries and the tax on imports
was retained as a temporary surcharge. Indexing the tax system to the Cordoba
Oro was an appropriate transitory solution to avoid the Impact of high
lnflation on tax yields. In addition, by the end of 1990, the Government
improved the wLthholding and advancement system of Lncome tax collection to
minimize the lag between accruals and collections. This improvement aimed to
avoid the possLble negative effects of accelerated inflatLon on collections.
In June 1991, the Government reduced the maximum rate of PIT and the flat rate
of CIT to 35.5 percent.  Gradually, the Government will continue lowering it
to approximately 33 percent.  This internationally competitive rate would not
deter foreign investment nor the repatrLation of capital from Nicaraguans
abroad. The tax system currently conforms to International standards and has
the basic safeguards to avoid lagging collections in the presence of -
accelerated LnflatLon. currently, no major additional change in the tax
system is required.
85.         The thlrd aspect of the pollcLes to improve Lncentives entaLls
changes Ln domestic reoulatorv practices. Some state-owned enterprLses have
had a de facto monopoly in productLon and trade, for example, the sugar,
bananas, and slaughtering house sectors. State-owned enterprises in natural
resource sectors have regulatory powers to limit market entry and exports of
private sector firms. The Government has also inherited a system of
generalized price controls, closed markets, and interventlons by the ENABAS in
regulating agricultural products and derlvatives. In addltlon to the measures
to liberalize imports (para. 80), the Government has lifted domestlc prlce
controls, with the exceptlon of fiscal Industries, and petroleum and publlc
utilities. However, for a reduced group of basie staples, the authorities set
prices in government-owned retaLl outlets as part of the strategy to alleviate
inflation.
86.         Though BNA8AS Lntervenes much less ln the market, lt still
dominates the domestic and foreign trade of basic grains. ENABAS has
privileged access to the import permits that regulate basic grains. This
enables it to control the domestic supply of basic graino and to establish its
price support policy for domestic grains producers. This intervention has
caused wide fluctuations in nominal protection for basic grains. The
Government is aware of the negative effects of ENABAS' market interventLon.
Policy changes belng introduced are designed to encourage competltion in the
international and domestic trade of baeic grains.
87.         The Government will eliminate de facto state production and trade
monopolies via the privatization of state-owned enterprises in sugar, bananas,
and slaughterlng houses. The state institutes for mining and fisheries will
be transferred to the Ministry of Economy, after separating its production and
trade activities. The Ministry of Economy is studying ways to regulate
natural resources.



- 24 -
88.         The Government plans to eliminate transitory price setting adopted
for selected products in Government owned stores before March 1992. Prior to
March 1992 the Government intends to present an action plan to phase out price
controls of the fiscal industries and reformulate the SCT, thereby confining
it to lwuxry and sin goods regardless of origin.  The legal framework
permitting generalized price controls will be abrogated by the same date.
89.         As part of its overall development policy, the Government's plan
to reduce and change the role of ENABAS calls for support prices for all to be
eliminated by August 1991. ENABAS will buy grains at market prices and offer
storage and related services to private traders and producers for a fee. It
may also rent out part of its facilities. In addition, ENABAS will offer
private traders the service of importing on their behalf (bundling orders).
ENABAS will stop trading in all but basic grains. A program for privatizing
its retail and wholesale outlets will be prepared by the end of 1991.
According to the Government's plan, at least 20 percent of its assets will be
sold to wholesalers or distributed as part of severance payments to ENABAS
employees by March 1992. The remainder will be divested before the end of
1992. The Government is designing a medium-term strategy and an action plan
for redefining the future role of ENABAS. ENABAS' intervention in regional
grain markets will be restricted to markets where private competition is
insufficient and ENABAS' facilities will be privatized and/or leased where
competitive private participation is ensured.
Social Sector Reauirements and Poverty Alleviation
90.         The recent economic decline has caused sharp deterioration in
nutrition standards and the provision of basic services. Since 1985, calorie
and protein intake per capita fell by 30 percent. They were 14 percent and 25
percent, respectively, below minimum recommended levels in 1989. The infant
mortality rate, at 61 per thousand, is high by Latin American standards.
Education coverage also remains poor; 24 percent of the children 10 years or
older are not enrolled in school. An even greater percentage attend school
irregularly. The dropout rate is high, especially at the primary level.
91.         Nicaragua, with one of the lowest per capita incomes in Latin
America and years of deterioration in the provision of basic services, cannot
afford to wait until the end o; adjustment to address the needs of the
vulnerable segments of the population. Moreover, these groups will be
affected adversely by the implementation of the stabilization program, which
includes cuts in public sector employment and spending, as well as price
adjustments. The Government has already taken initial steps to attack
poverty. in November 1990 it created the Social Emergency Investment Fund
(rISE) as a mechanism to channel donor funds toward urgently needed social
projects. FISE operates directly under the Office of the Presidency and
serves as a financial intermediary with auditing responsibility, but not as a
project executing agency. It channels resources for primary health care,
primary nutrition, retraining and micro-enterprise credit. It tries to
stimulate local governments, private sector grass-roots organizations, and
NGOs to participate in projects.



- 25 -
92.         PISS has identified areas of critical poverty and targeted
resources toward these most critical areas. The fund started its operations,
mobilizing US$15 million from the external and local donors. It has committed
US$4.5 million in the first quarter of 1991; 32 projects are already underway
with an additional 62 projects scheduled for the rest of 1991. For FISE to
continue, additional donor funding is required once the available resources
are exhausted.
93.         The Fund for Assistance to Oppressed Sectors (FASO), a more recent
government creation, will provide immediate relief to poverty groups. Some
pledges have been made to PASO by nine OECD member governments, but no program
has yet begun operations. For now, the Vice Ministry of Social Affairs, an
integral part of the Office of the Presidency which is managing PASO during
its initial phase, has received UNDP and bilateral assistance. This will help
strengthen social sector management, monitoring, and evaluation to prepare for
efficient use of donor assistance.
94.         The Government also needs to address severe nutrition problems of
the poorest segments of the population. In 1985, 31 percent of the population
was classified as poor and 23 percent were living under extreme poverty. The
poverty status is certainly worse today, after two failed attempts at
stabilization and continuous deterioration in production and employment
opportunities since 1985. The authorities are addressing nutrition needs bys
(i) retargeting eligibility to AFA (a food delivery program) to reach the
poorest segments of the population; (ii) gradually eliminating food
distribution in the work place and increasing distribution through health
centers, NGOs, and churches where the poor can be reached; (iii) improving the
logistics of the World Food Program sponsored mother/child program (PXA); (iv)
increasing the nutritional content and improving targeting of the "glass of
milk program" by introducing a solid enriched food or cookie to accompany the
glass of milk; and (v) developing a weaning food to replace the currently used
food (watole") that has very low nutritional content.
95.         Despite relatively high public spending in the past on health and
education, the quality of services remains low. IDA is preparing a social
rsector operation which would support social sector rehabilitation and improve
sector management, human resource development, basic infrastructure needs for
classrooms, health posts, and health equipment (para. 42).
III .  THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CRED1T
Objective and Size of the Credit
96.         The proposed ERC aims to support the Government of Nicaragua in
its endeavors to arrest the ongoing decline in the economy, to achieve lasting
price stability, and to revive economic growth on a sustained basis. This is
to be achieved with deep structural reforms that would help reorient the
economy toward a competitive free-market. This will necessitate changes in
macroeconomic policies, the public sector, financial sector, and the system of



- 26 -
incentLves. The proposed ERC focuses on the most important areas of reform as
described in previous sections and summarized ln the Matrix of ActLons (Annex
D). an shown in Annex D, the Government has taken considerable up front
actLon to implement lts program. The size of the Credlt iL relatively large
at SUR 83.5 million (US$110 milllon equivalent) ln order to respond to the
Government's demonstrated initiative, play an important catalytlc role ln
mobilizLig external assistance for the clearance of arrears to the
international fLiancial LnstLtutLons, and provlde sufficlent program support.
The operation wlll also recelve slgnLficant co-financing (para. 103).
ggnitions fAz ftanche Release
97.         The Credit proceeds will be dLsbureed in two tranches, each
tranche being SDR 41.75 million (US$55 million equlvalent). The closing date
will be end-December 1992. The flrst tranche will be avaLlable for
dLsbursement upon credlt effectlveness (para. 98), and the second tranche will
be avaLlable for dLsbursement after six to eight months and the completlon of
the second tranche conditions. A summary of the proposed actlons to be
supported by each tranch. release is presented below. in addition to the
monitorable actions specified below, the release of both tranches will be
contingent upon the maLntenance of an approprlate macroeconomlc framework and
satisfactory performnce in overall program implementation as outlined in the
Letter of Development Polliy (Annex C) attached.
A.   Polic  actions tke before woard .rosntatioma
(i)         Central Government non-lnterest current expenditures in the
proposed FY92 budget were reduced to US$325 mllion
equivalent; agreement wLth IDA on the composition of the
proposed budget of the Central Government for FY92 (paras.
5I, S2);
(iL)        The processing of voluntary employment reductLon ln the
public sector was completed for 8,000 personnel (para. 55);
(111)       The Government initiated an action plan, satisfactory to
IDA, to improve tax administration with specific emphasis on
General Value Tax (GVT) and income tax collectLon (para.
57);
(iv)        Income tax exemptions were removed, and a satLsfactory
tLmetable was approved to phase out indLrect tax exemptions
Lacluding import tax exemptions (para. 81);
(V)         The Government has adopted an actlon plan satisfactory to
IDA, to privatize CORNAP enterprises (para. 66);
(vi)        RegulatLons for the implementatLon of the Superintendency
Law were adopted, the Superintendent was appointed and the



- 27 -
Banking Superintendency activities have been initiated, all
satisfactory to IDA (para. 72);
(vii)       The Government adopted an action program, satisfactory to
IDA, on restructuring of state-owned banks, along with
cessation of Central Bank subsidies and discounts (para.
71);
(viii)      The Government lowered nominal protection in the trade
sector to a range of 10-60 percent through a combination of
reductions in the levels of tariffs, SCT, and stamp tax; and
it announced a target tariff range of 10-20 percent and
elimination of SCT and stamp tax on imports by the end-1993
(para. 81)S
(lx)        Arrangements for automatic registration for importers and
exporters were approved (para. 81); and
(x)         A proposal was presented to IDA for a price-based mechanism
with variable levies for rice, yellow corn and white maize
(para. 82).
S.  Policy actions to be taken before second tranches
I)          Adoption of (a) FY92 budget with reduced Central Government
non-interest current expenditures less than US$325 million
equivalent and (b) agrement on implementing the
recommendations of the joint government-IDA public
expenditure review (para. S2);
(ui)        Implementation of measures to strengthen tax administration,
including (a) full operation of unit for large taxpayers;
(b) issuing of decrees on sanctions applying to delayed
payment and non-compliance; and (c) initiating programs on
automated anaagemnt control system, computerized taxpayer
identification system, and training programs for Internal
Revenue and Customs personnel (paras. 58-S9).
(iii)       implementation of privatization of CORNAP state-owned
companies through (a) completion of privatization of
additional 25 state-owned companies; (b) finalization of
devolution, liquidation, or assignation of another S0
companiesu and (e) initiation of concrete steps towards the
preparation of an additional 30 companies for privatization
(para. 67).
(iv)        Carrying out financial sector reforms including, (a)
liquidation or merger of Banco Inmobiliario with Banco
NicaragUense de Industria y Comercio, (b) dissolution of
Corporaci6n Financiera de Nicaragua (CORFIN), (c) initiation
of steps towards the restructuring of Banco Nicaragiense de



- 28 -
Industria y Comercio, Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, and
Sanco Popular according to agreed ac'Zion plan, (d)
submission to the National Assembly c-r a draft law,
satisfactory to IDA, on Banking and Financial Institutions,
and (e) issuance of at least two licenses to private banks
(paras. 71,72,73).
(v)         The protection resulting from combined tariffs and taxes
that apply to imports in Nicaragua will be reduced to a
minimum of 10 percent and a maximum of 40 percent, except
with respect to medicines, books and newsprint which may be
exempt from such tariffs and taxes or subject to tariffs and
taxes at a combined rate lower than the minimum rate
referred to above (para. 81).
(vi)        Replacement of import quotas on rice, yellow corn and white
maize for a price based mechanism with variable levies,
satisfactory to IDA, and elimination of remaining
quantitative restrictions on food grain imports (para. 82).
roc-urement. Disbursement and Auditina
98.         The proposed ERC of US$110 million would be disbursed to reimburse
the CIF cost of general imports (goods and services), excluding goods and
services financed by other multilateral or bilateral sources, luxury goods,
mil3ary equipment and other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list
defined under the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC).  In view
of the large number of policy actions taken up front by the Government, and
based on the financing requirements of the program, retroactive financing not
exceeding SDR 41.7S million (US$55 million equivalent; 50 percent of the
Credit amount) is recommended for eligible imports made after November 1,
1990, and before the date of the Agreement.
99.         Because of the lack or inadequacy of procurement procedures, a
conservative cut-off limit of US$3 million equivalent has been adopted for
International Competitive Bidding (ICS). Therefore, Imports made by publLc
and private importers valued at the equivalent of USS3 million or more would
be procured under simplified ICB procurement procedures in accordance with
IDA's procurement guidelines. Public sector imports valued below US$3 million
equivalent and above US$1 million equivalent would be procured on the basis of
advertised competitive procedures satisfactory to the Association. Public
sector imports valued at US$1 million equivalent or less may be procured
through comparison of price quotations from at least two suppliers eligible ' 
under the Guidelines.
100.        Import contracts by private importers, valued at below US$3
million equivalent, shall be awarded in accordance with established commercial
practice, requiring comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two
eligible suppliers, except in cases where direct contracting is considered
appropriate under para. 3.5 of the Guidelines for procurement. Alternatively,
such contracts will be subject to pre-shipment verification of quantity,



- 29 -
quality and price by an independent inspection firm acceptable to the
Association.
101.        Applications for disbursement corresponding to all import
contracts paid after November 1, 1990 and before March 1, 1992, below US$3
million equivalent each, shall be supported by a certification by an
independent inspection agency acceptable to IDA on the reasonability of the
price paid. In the case of crude oil imports, expenditures under ongoing
supply contracts entered into by Nicaragua would qualify for reimbursement
under the Credit of an amount not to exceed, per unit, the reference price per
unit established in commodity markets as reflected in Platt's Oilgram for the
relevant shipping date and type of oil.
102.        The Central Bank would administer the ERC and be responsible for
the collection and review of relevant procurement documentation, ensuring that
only imports that meet the eligibility criteria and agreed procurement
procedures are included in withdrawal applications. To assist in this work,
the Central Bank will retain an experienced procurement consultant.
Disbursements against contracts valued under US$1.0 million would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure (603). The procurement documentation
would be retained by the Central Bank for review by IDA as required and by the
auditors to be appointed for the auditing of expenditures at the completion of
each tranche. The submissior. to IDA of an audit report on the first tranche
would be a condition of disbursement of the second tranche. Full procurement
documentation would be required with withdrawal applications for individual
contracts valued at US$1.0 million equivalent or more. Withdrawal
applications would be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than SDR
190,000 (US$250,000 equivalent). Contracts for imports valued under US$5,000
equivalent would be ineligible for financing under the loan.
Co-financina and Aid Coordinatio_n
103.        As indicated in para. 2, since the now Government assumed offtice
in April 1990, IDA has played a lead role in aid coordination for Nicaragua.
Five donor meetings were convened, including the Consultative Group meeting in
Paris on Xay 16-17, 1991. Seventeen bilateral donor representatives and eight
international organizations attended the meeting in which agreement on arrears
clearance was obtained. The IDB will co-finance the proposed ERC with a
US$110 million credit to be disbursed in two tranches. The Governments of
Japan (US$70 million), Germany (US$17 million) and Switzerland (US$ S million)
will co-finance the program. The US Government has pledged more than US$S00
million in 1990 for a two-year support, of which some US$300 million has
already been disbursed. Other bilateral support will come from, among others,
the Nordic countries, Germany, Canada, France, the Netherlands, and Austria.
Mexico, Spain, Colombia, and Venezuela are supporting Nicaragua's reform
program through bridge financing for arrears clearance.



- 30 -
elationS with Intgrnational Finangial OrganizAtions
104.        IDA has worked clouely with the IMF and IDB staff in carrying out
a policy dialogue with the authorities and toward the preparation of this
credit. Regular meetings were held at Headquarters and joint field missionu
were organized. IDB staff participated in IDA missions for the preparation of
ERC, including the June 1991, appraisal mission. IMF staff have also
overlapped with IDA missions. The IMF has helped the authorities to design
the new stabilization program and to monitor implementation. The track record
established on implementation will provide the basis for a stand-by
arrangment with the IMF to be presented to the IMF Board during the first
half of September. The IMF has also been asked to consider Nicaragua for ESA?
eligibility. The anticipated stand-by and ESAF arrangements would provide
important additional financing for the Government's program.
Techical Assistance
105.        Technical assistance for implementing the program is crucial.
Though rDA will not finance the provision of technical assistance, through its
leadership in the Consultative Group and its oversight of the adjustment
process, it will help organize and direct technical assistance. To facilitate
IDA's policy dialogue, ERC implementation, and technical assistance
coordination, IDA will set up a Resident Mission in Nicaragua later this year.
The Resident Mission will provide support as the Government implements its
reform program and help identify institutional weaknesses and human resource
requirements. A number of initiatives have already been underway, to address
the immediate shortcomings in implementing and monitoring the reform programs
and strengthening the institutional framework. To meet the short- term
requirements of supporting the stabilization and adjustment program the
Government has followed a two-track approach. It has been working through the
Consultative Group to identify a minimum set of actions for which short term
technical cooperation can provide a useful basis for decision making.
Additionally, recognizing that this approach only addresses the immediate
gaps, the Government has been working with the UNDP, IDB, selected bilateral
agencies, and the international financial institutions to strengthen key
ministries.
106.        A number of critical tasks will be carried out using, to the
extent feasible, the short-term resources that have been made available in
recent months. To support the reconstruction of the financial sector, for
example, technical cooperation funds will be used to design the banking
regulatory framework, and organize the Superintendency of banks. An
evaluation of the loan portfolios of the two major state owned banks, as an
input for financial sector reform, has already been completed. An external
debt management strategy and a related accounting system are being developed.
The IDA Public Sector Expenditure Review is expected to recommend, inter-.ga,
reforms in the 1992 budget cycle. In agriculture, the UNDP/IBRD Regional Unit
for Technical Assistance (RUTA) is tackling the issue of property rights by
reviewing a cadastral system. It will also evaluate the Government's
proposals for developing and disseminating agricultural technology. In the
public utilities, a management audit has been completed in the water company



- 31 -
(INAA), where Initial efforts in infrastructure rehabilitation are likely to
take place.
107.        The UNDP and USAID currently are providing longer term technical
cooperation funds to staff key ministries. As the implementation of reform
programs gets underway, however, ministries will need to add other functions
and skills. The Government has entered into consultations with the UNDP
Management Development Program (MDP) to provide funds for additional staff.
It expects to have these staff in place within six months. In the Ministry of
the Presidency, the staff would serve as a small secretariat to the Economic
Cabinet to improve coordination across various ministries in the
implementation of the program. Other staff would be assigned to the Ministry
of Finance to implement budget reforms, and improve expenditure planning,
disbursement controls and project evaluation. Other staff would be assigned
to customs and revenue offices. In the Ministry of Economy and Development,
additional staff are needed to improve the data collection and processing
capabilities of key economic indicators, such as price indexes and other
short-term indicators of economic activity. The Ministry also needs to
strengthen its regulatory capabilities, in particular in the area of natural
resources. In the Ministry of External Cooperation, staff are needed to
coordinate the technical cooperation process, negotiate with donors, and
ensure that conditionality on these grants is met. Finally, the IDB and the
IMF have joined together to provide longer term technical cooperation
resources to the Central Bank to support macroeconomic policy and to develop
accounting and management information systems.
108.        Over the longer term, the Government will need to deepen
institutional strengthening by developing a merit-based civil service reform
and more efficiently utilizing new analytical skills.  This is essential to
the recruitment and retention of a highly professional civil service, staffed
by Nicaraguans. As a first step toward these goals, the Government plans to
revitalize the Public Administration Institute under the proposed UNDP
Management Development Program (MDP).
enefits and Disks
109.        Egonmic. Benefits.   The proposed ERC and the associated co-
financing will enable the Government of Nicaraqua to implement vital
structural adjustment policies, at a time when domestic resource mobilization
and foreign exchange to finance are inadequate. These international
resources, the adjustment program of in Government, and the re-opening of the
U.S. market will permit a rapid, but modest, supply response in the short-run.
Without such recovery in supply, stabilizing prices would be impossible
without recourse to massive external resource transfers.
110.        Implementing the policies supported by the Credit can streamline
resource mobilization and use in the medium-term. Reducing the size of the
public sector, reforming of the financial system, and deepening trade reform,
will reorient Nicaragua's productive structure toward activities with
comparative advantage. Establishing an encouraging climate for investment



- 32 -
through sustained stabilization and deregulation/liberalization will induce
large-scale private sector participation in the economy. Increased economic
activity, coupled with properly functioning markets will alleviate
unemployment. Finally, maintaining a sound macroeconomic environment and
fully implementing structural adjustment measures would prompt external
financing, and private foreign investment for long-term sustained growth.
111.     Ptvertv Alleviation Effects.   The Government's reform program
should contribute significantly to reducing poverty. In the short-term,
eradication of hyperinflation, would arrest the erosion and wild fluctuation
of real incomes of the poor. The price stabilization since March has created
according to preliminary estimates of the cost of living a relatively less
expensive minimum consumption basket, in real terms than before the
stabilization package. Land distribution to ex-militia. ex-contras, and
workers will also improve the standard of living of these groups. FISE is
targeting public work programs to the poorest segments of the population,
easing the burden of adjustment.
112.      In the medium-term, the structural adjustment program, will also
alleviate poverty. The real devaluation, by impacting the profitability of
agricultural production, will benefit many low-income rural groups. Trade
liberalization and deregulation will reorient the productive structure toward
labor intensive activities. Thus labor demand will rise. Moreover, an
overall resumption of efficient growth in line with Nicaragua's comparative
advantage, will create productive employment.
113.      InuiKauaang l U1fg.ctg.   The main environmental issue in Nicaragua
is the erosion of forests and woodlands. Erosion is rampant in the heavily
populated Pacific slopes. The topography and the nature of the soil there
make the land very vulnerable to inappropriate agricultural practices. Between
5 and 10 percent of all agricultural land is estimated to be "seriously
eroded* or "degraded". The rate of deforestation is high, as forests and
woodlands are disappearing at a rate of 2.2 percent per year. well above
average for the Central America region. Primary tropical forest is being
cleared at an even higher rate. In addition, widespread and uncontrolled use
of pesticides, particularly in cotton production, and the serious chemical
contamination of Lake Managua challenge the environment. The project will
have an indirect positive ; 'pact on the environmental issues.  The regulatory
framework for the administ ,tion of natural resources will consider
restrictions on the exploitation of natural resources, specifically of
forests. Also, realigning relative prices to their international levels will
avoid excess use of pesticides and damaging chemicals in agriculture.
114.      Risks.   Given the actions taken to date, little doubt remains
about the Government's commitment to the program of stabilization and
adjustment. A far-reaching stabilization effort has been in place since March
3, 1991, and important steps have been taken towards structural adjustment.
Nonetheless, given the magnitude of problems, the Government's limited
implementation capability, and the fragile nature of the peace among the
opposing political forces, the proposed operation faces a number of serious
risks. Politically strong groups, including the military, may resist deep



- 33 -
cuts in budgetary allocations and slow down fiscal adjustment. Organized
labor, highly politicized by the opposition party, may resort to strikes and
work stoppages to obtain higher salaries and resist cuts in public sector
employment. If the issue of property rights is not resolved, the private
sector may be slow in making new investments, or expanding and modernizing the
existing capacities. In the area of privatization, domestic and foreign
investors may prove reluctant to tender offers for state enterprises if
employees continue to exercise effective control over them. Also, established
political/economic interest groups and the employees working in state-owned
banks may resist financial sector reforms.
115.      However, the Government has established a consensus behind the
program, as demonstrated by the statements of the ruling coalition and the
opposition party representatives in recent donor meetings. This support is
expected to continue, as long as the Government can demonstrate early success
with the program. At the same time, the authorities have demonstrated their
resolve to establish property rights and the rule of law. This would promote
private sector trust in the economy and in the system of incentives.
116.      The success of the program also depends on the timely availability
of donor support. Given the large financing requirements and the huge
external debt to be rescheduled, mobilization of donor assistance is
challenging. Any major shortfall in the size and timing of this effort could
prove extremely damaging to the program's success. However, the donors'
response to Nicaragua's program in recent meetings has been encou:aging. The
authorities are now taking a very active posture in soliciting donor support.
IDA will continue to play a key role in the coordination of such offorts.
117.      Another potential risk to the timely implementation of a difficult
program is weakness in the administration at a technical level. To alleviate
shortcomings in the implementation capacity of the administration, technical
assistance programs are being designed and put into place by bilateral and
multilaterao  organizations (paras. 105-106). This will allow the authorities
to implement the reforms more speedily and effectively. The Government is
expected to assemble programs to alleviate managerial and administrative
problems in the medium to long term, again with the help of technical
assistance programs.
V.  EiBm NaM 2FiKCXN R3QURE.M t
118.      Nicaragua's economic recovery and medium-term growth will depend
critically on adequate external financing. After having addressed the arrears
problem (para. 119), Nicaragua needs to reduce its external debt overhang
problem so that it can begin to manage its annual debt servicing and mobilize
external financing for its program. The country's resource balance deficit as
well as debt and debt servicing burden are expected to remain high by
international standards through the remainder of the 1990s. Under the
projected base case scenario (Table 2), Nicaraguas resource gap would be 20.1



- 34 -
percent of GDP during 1992-96, and then fall to an average 12.7 parcent of GDP
per annum in the 1997-2000 period.
XFX AM=ars Clearance
119.      Notwithstanding the magnitude of the debt burden, arrears to the
World Bank, IDA and the IDB represent the ixmediate constraint to the flow of
international assistance. As of April 1991, arrears to both institutions were
approximately USS340 million. Beginning in May 1991, Nicaraqua resumed debt
service to both institutions. With the arrears effectively "frozen" as of May
1991, the clearance process is expected to be finalized by September 1991.
Clearing the arrears to the international financial institutions is part of
the overall financing program. The process will consist of three parta: (i) a
relatively short-term bridge loan of approximately US$195 million, provided by
Mexico, Colombias Spain and Venezuela that would be repaid from the first
tranche disbursements of the IDA, 1MW, and IDS fast disbursing operations, and
other cofinanciers (Japan, Switzerland, and Germany); (ii) some US$30 million
in longer-term loans to be provided by Venezuela and Spain; and (iii) specific
contributions made by bilateral donors for the purpose of arrears clearance
for the remaining US$115 million from the USA, the Netherlands, Germany,
France. Canada, Switzerland, Norway. Korea and Denmark.
External Debt Overhana
120.      At the end of 1990, Nicaragua's total external debt amounted to
US$10,585 million (including US$4,110 million in principal and interest
arrears) of which US$7,081 million (67 percent) was owed to bilateral
creditors, US$1,300 million (12 percent) to multilaterals, US$1,867 million
(18 percent) to commercial banks, US$71 million (0.7 percent) to suppliers,
and USS267 million (2.3 percent) to other creditors. To illustrate the
gravity of the situation, if Nicaragua does not get debt relief on favorable
terms, the outcome is illustrated in Tables 3 and 4. Under the assumptions
that all arrears are cleared in 1991 and all debt service as due is paid to
all creditors, the 1991 financing gap is projected at US$3.2 billion (Table
3); of this. US$2.5 billion is paymaet of non-multilateral arrears. Assuming
further, that Nicaragua would service its external debt obligations as due
throughout the 1990., the country's external financing requirements would grow
from US$887 million in 1992 to US$1.8 billion by the year 2000 (Table 3); the
average annual financing gap would reach a staggering USS1.3 billion (63
percent of GDP on average) in the 1992-2000 period. The foreign debt would be
on average five times the country's GDP for the remainder of the 1990. (Table
4). Cape of this size are obviously unsustainable and cannot realistically be
financed. Measures to significantly and drastically reduce Nicaragua's debt
burden will have to be found.
121.      The Government has taken a number of steps to address this
situation. It has renegotiated its debt with Mexico and Venezuela (totalling
some US$1.3b) on highly favorable terms (including substantial debt reduction)
and hopes to reach a similar agreement with the USSR and Eastern Bloc
countries (USS3.7b). It expects to begin negotiations with the Paris Club



- 35 -
donors later in 1991 as part of its debt management program. At this stage it
is not possible to predict the outcome of these discussions. Commercial bank
negotiations have also not yet begun and are unlikely to occur before 1992.
Table 3. Projected  Mase .i  Plan. 1991-2000
1991      1993     1903      1994      1993      19#6      1i9t      1998      1999      a0
aroc" Plensucn  BquirV     uo            (3.962)  (1.035)  (1.010)  (1,330)  (1.290)  (1.491)  (1544)  (1.6921  (1.034)  (3.036)
_......    .. . 0.._.. 
seure  54.                            (357)    (330)    (342)    (351)    (337)    (330)    (136)    (326)    (331)    (311)
ekt  n.lute:ro  factor twaoe            10        16        16        13        14       13        It         a         4         (1)
lutoot Pq.eat  . *                     290       414      490       693       636       7m5       814       896       989    1,0U
Aorttsitio  P omto a1                1.533       362       174      378       370       406       390       462       332       610
1lup at 3oeowo                           0       (18)      (21)      (24)     (23)      (14)      (13)      (16)      (17)      (18)
8arw"e                                    3.962    1,035    1,010    1.330    I,s"          1.492    1544    1.692    1.834    2.026
Prvate ftot.ro                          30        s0        so       so        50        50        so        s0        50        30
Officil Capitol Griat.                 403         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
not pico.t   nrotueut                  t10        30        40        s0       60        73        90       103       130       13
PIpeln  Debiareoe t                    188        68         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Pnone i             pbl              3,331       887      930    1.123      1o88    1,367    1,404        1.537    1.684    1,841
*i Include. debt service on *rre     s r existing debt, m pIpelne di              ete  ed an gsp t4ne .
bI &4ccute for Gloaranc  of *rore to *11  eoditore. eacp  soot Sl94.6oi  eqorsr. in 1991.  Ituanql"
S&P to=  o*re 20 yoge  asturity. 5 year Sreac. sad 82 p.. ntoret rot.
table 4: "not=0U GAP An0 C3nuflu1            nU  3*2206  1991.3000
(us$ 0531400)
(Debt S*evu* es duo)
1991     1992      1993      1994      199       I"        199?      1996      1999      1000
financing Cap                             3.33S       887       920    1,32        ,180    1.367    1.404    1.S3         1ts,      1.841
total Debt of                             6.327     6,948    7,694    8,646    9.57?   10,518   11.531   12,606   13u,n7           14,90n
.ota  Aeniotie  Paymens                    .,325      s82       174       278       370       40        n         462       332       610
Tout  laterest Payon-t.                     390       414       490       693       656       7n        814       896       989    1OU
Ta,l Debt Servie paets                    3,615       696       64        970       936    1.14       1.3t 5    1.337   s1t51    1.606
DebtiODY                                    443       466       487       s0        306       s09      316        516       316       15
eebaltapono                    1.539 1a46          1,464    1"491    1,447       o3se9     1,360    1317    I389    1,260
IntarootIOflP                     30~~~g    38        31        40       33        36        36        ST        37        37
wntereotJ~.rte                               71        87        93       119        99        98        96        94        9S        91
Debt  Se,vtaoJODP                           254        47        42        37        49        35        U4        56        37       5s
Debt Ser'vicelEspotta 686                             147       136       167       140       153       142       143       142       142
St OEeUOO  eeat win    t 'Jtasetee
lExternal llesoutce fltecureDleuts
122.              Two debt reduction and debt managment scenarios have been
developed to illustrate the impact of debt and debt servicing
reschedulinglreduction on Nicaragua's external. financing requirements during
the 1990.. Both scenarios assume that arrears to the IlIs (IBRD, IDA, IDB)
will be cleared and debt servicing to those institutions resumed in 1991.
Under the "Toronto like" scenario, principal and interest on bilateral debts
(excluding Mexico, Venezuela and the former Eastern Bloc countries for which
negotiations have been completed or are nearing completion) are assumed to be



- 36 -
reschediuled approximating Toronto terms.11 The external financing gap i8
reduced to an average US$648 million per annum for the 1992-2000 period.
While this is less than half of the "payment as due" scenario, it is extremely
high 'atsidering the level of external finance likely.
Table 5 flMICIGW CU1 U RD CaOMituS, uS. 1991-2000
(US8 tuteno)
(tTerato-ld^ Sneneato)
l991    1992    1993    194    195    1996    1997    1098    1909    ZO00
at=ne g cap                           14     507     628    657       679     6S6     669     675      676     678
Toeal Debt *1                      6.141   6.716   7.324   8AO    8,740 09.3S   10,01  10.t47  11,281  11,918
Total tmotttetten Payment.           357      71      7J      72       70      60      62      69       62      61
Total Zn;.;.. Pyment.                40      *45     299     32S    134       180     408     427      450     471
total oebt Sorem   Payment           397     316     372     398      425     440     470     496      Sll    533
Debtlap                              432     451     464     4n       443     454     448     436      423     410
DebtIEwpote                        1,506   1,414   1.394   1393   1,323   1,247   1,182   1,I11    1,057   1,001
ntarwestloPp                          3       16      19      19      19       18      18      17       17      14
nt;e.tIlBports                       10       52      S7      56      54       it      48      45      42       40
Debt ServcIGDP                       2S       21      24      23      2S       31      21      20       19      18
Debt SeageeiXpogte                  97       66      71      49      44       $9      55       is     48       45
SOa?cO  V.o6 Bcank ottaatea.
123.           The second alternative debt reduction scenario (called "Beyond
Toronto Terms") incorporates deot forgiveness on the arder of two-thirds of
the bilateral debt stock (again excluding Mexico, Ve1"ezuela and the former
Eastern Block countries). That brings the projected financing gap down to
some US$425 million per annum for the 1992-2000 period (from US$450 million in
1993 to US$405 million in 2000). Table 6 shows the details of thi, scenario.
The debt forgiveness element lowers the debt/GDP ratio to sme 210 percent on
average in the 1992-2000 period. Interest payments are reduced drastically to
some 10-20 percent of exports during the decade.
Table 6. MM=  W AM CSMI1CU S -OS 1991-2000
("Dpyad taonftoo Tons)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1993    1996    1997    1998    1999    so20
VInAnein Gap                          14     326     450     463      468     441     431      426     415     485
Tatal Debt al                      6,141   2,837   3,s33   3,683   4,098   4,493   4.872   5,237   S,594  S5947
toa htatt an  ents                   357      S9      92       91      89      79      81   S8          81      80
Total tnzreot Payment.                40      65     101      113     123     136     131      159     170     180
Total Debt sorele paepet             39      154     193      204     214     215     232      247    2352     260
Debt/GDP                             432     190     0SW     213      11?     218     218      214     210     204
Debtiftporte                       1.S06     597     615     635      620     597    s5       547      526     SaO
Zntortoo/pt                           3        4       6       7        7       7       7       41       6       6
Znto;eetllqotso                      10       14      19       19      19      1       1iS      17      16      is
Debt S.lIGDP                          28      10      12       12      11      10      10       10       9       9
Debt Sertvelftprto                    97      32      37       35      2       29      27       26      24      22
*/ei ama  teatnn   n gd-u aoeareor.   ~- -~                                                                      -
Seaac . Vorld Dan oetstaeto.
/ Bilateral debt is rescheduled, with 14 years maturity. 8 years grace and
3.5% interest p .a.. Nicaragua's interest payments would approximate those
under an application of Toronto terms to all bilateral debt.



- 37 -
124.      While the above two scenarios (particularly the last one) reprosont
a significant improvezent over the "debt service as due" case, it is evident
that Nicaragua's economic program will depend heavily on additional external
financial assistance for the foreseeable future. The donor community has
alroady expressed a considerable interest in supporting Nicarsgua. It bas
been demonstrated that aid flows of around US$400 million per amnum
realistically may be mobilized through the Consultative Group mechaaism, if
the Government stays on course with stabilization and adjustmuet program
targets. Therefore, it appears possible to finance a gap on the order implied
by the "beyond Toronto-terms". Since the first year's external financing
requirements are basically mat, timely efforts are needed to ensure the
availability of external resources in 1992 and beyond. IDA will continue to
play a key role in this process through the Consultative Group mechanism.
V.   RECOMMENDAT!0N
125.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would coWply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed credit.
LeAvis -. PrestO
PresiDent
Attachments
Washinoonf, D.C.
September 3, 1991



-38 -
UICMAJAW -- Ktey tedicsatos
fas* Case Proejction a./                       (t    e  t"eUt                                                           oftms ntd
LOtust                   est.Prjc;
198     1987    1988   1989    199    1991   199    193    1991   IC..
Reat Crawtih Rteess
areas a-   -tic Predic  COOP)                 4.6    -0.7   -15.0   -L.8    -4.4    1.0    3.          4.0    5.0    S.,
cross Oaws'tic Incea" (COY)                    .        ..        .      ..    -6.?    1.3    5.0      3.9    4.9    i....
iteal per Capita Growth Rate".
Cross Dostic Product (00)                     1.3    -4.1   .17,5   .5.9    -7.3   -Lo0   .0.1          1.0    1.9    1.?
Total Consuition                             16.71    *3.6   .19.1   .9.9    -6.2   -0.9   -2.8   -1.2   -0.2    0. !
Private Consuytien                           13.9    *6.5       2.2  -I0.?    -S.1I    1.7   -3.8       3.i    0.3   -C.,
Oent wid Debt Servics CLT10114T). b./
Total OU CUSSe)                1,964   ~~~~~~6.984    7,488   8,26?   8.819  6.275  6.948   7.494   9.55?  i&.gs:
OCO/CDp                                       163.7   464.7    56.3  624.9   658.4  441.7  466.5  487.5  s06.3  S15.3
Oebt Service (USSR)                              *..                       .        .3,61S    6,4         W       O    1,69*
Debt Se-ieIpra..                                          .         .      .        .86.5  146.5  126.3  140.2  143.5
Oebt Service/UP.                                          .         *       -      .   254.5   46.7   42.1   49.1   58.3
Intereost Surden (LT.IlNP.5T): b.1
interest Paid CUM5)                              ..       .        .       ..      .       9      414    490    656  I,0m
Itirersc/titports,.                                        .       .       .       .    71.1   87.2   93.3   99.4   91.3
Interest/CoP                                      .       .        .       .             20.4   27.8   31.0   34.8   37.3
cross    su"tw t/G0p  C.,                      16.8    15.8    13.0   13.0   1I.    12.0   15.0   16.0  .16.5   16.:
ICOUs Can. year Lag)                             ..                        .       ..       .      .      3.7     3.3    3. f
Domestic Savngs/UP  C./                        -2.3    13.8   U2.6  .11.7   -12.8  -13.2   -.7.   .5.7   -2.5    5.3
sop Reseoiaoe Balance/                        -36.0   -37.9   -39.6  -34.7   -25.8  -35.2  .23.?   *Zt.6  -18.9  -10.7
Rlational Savin.g/0p                             .        .    -28.1  *14.S   -14.7    2.8  -27.7  -28.8  -31.S  -Is.*
VWP curent Account SaVskenlo  41.1            .46.i   -51.8   -56.9  -40.3   -42.7  -39.6  -39.3  -41.6  -45.3  -42.8
Gtolvereut Invesuinnt/GDO eJ                    4.5       .       4.?    3.7       1.3    6.2    71.5     7.4    6.5    C.5
4oensn   SinWGs/U                           ..- 36.8  -17.?   -29.9   -5.4   -1.4                   2.0      3.6    5.2
Private tnvestinnt/0P@/101                                .      10.3   10.3    11.7    5.8   .7.5        8.6   10.0   11.
Private SevingslP                                                -3.0   -9.5       0.2  -25.8  -26.3  -30.S  -35.1  -33.8
Govsnsuw: ReverAssunoP                                  29.8    23.3   24.4    17.2   22.6   23.?   23.9   23.5   22.2
Gour xnpeniditurce/ap                      .      47.9    '9.8   29.9    42.8   34.8   32.6   29.3   26.5   31.
Sudget Deficit C-) or SurLI/SP                   .     -18.1   -26.5   -1.3   .35.6  -12.3   -8.9   .5.4   -3.9    0.r
Cansualer Price  Mudo  C% rimt" rate)          35.0   912.0  14316.0 477.0  7415.0 2850.1   40.9   20.3   11.2   10.0
coo Aef lager (2 growth rate)                 3V.0   52.0  1323.0  589.   7415.0 28501   40.9   20.3   11.2   Id.*
leal Exchange Rate, (1939.10)                    42    3.391      167    100       163    132    132      132    153    132
Teoi, of, Trodis Index (1989*100)                ..        ..             1600      9      92      9       99      96      96
latports (CUPS) VoLuo Groth Rate              -40.4    -1.0   -10.6    7.5         9.9    3.9    8.?    LO        81.5    6.4
Lm#orts CCaiFS)/UP                             41.0    31.6       .5.   25.?    28.    28.0   30.7   32.1   33.7   39.6
luiprts (amps) Volta. GrowtI Rate              81.6      3.5    -5.7  -11.2       0.3    2.6    6.1       3.9    3.9    3.0
tiiporgs (Ours)ICP                             77.      59.5    62.6   50.4    53.8   53.2   53.4   53.7   52.6   50.3
SOP Currant Account laiwm  (USM) C.1         -554.0  -77.1   479.4  -53.7  -571.6  -562.8  -185.?  -656.4  -855.5 -1246.2
Not Reserves CUMN)                            -I08.    *814.3  -80.9  489.6*1S. -1087.8 - 1070-I .2 -1049.5 -1004.0  -925.
Oross Reserves (Nanthe itsrts)                   .        .       0.8    2.1       1.3    1.3    1.5      1.7    2.0    2.0
.A ...........  ..........I----------------------0....0.............
*.i/ 9st iamt.d wd projected data we. based an bi.14Q 'tetiests, UeSce for debt data.
b.1 Figures for projected years based! an Firencfng Scenaio  A5" DM*. This scwenai actedis debt to tense 3agerum Bloc
cetwntries aid Latin American Oftlaporters.
a.1 OfficiAl datea n gros dwstf a investmsnt for 1988-90 wer adjusted *e to everasfgiason In the national oaccwts.
8./ Figuaes for proJected yeim   besed on RNW  Financing Scenaio (Arve" A4). Issoudes official, grants.
*.I Public tnvestment refers to Rmn-Finumist Pulic Stetr (flly, i.e. eactudes APP enterpise. Private Investment
smetes up for the d1ff erence.



- 39 -
UICARAWA  -  N*TIOUM  ACIITS                                            "aiIX A1
.............................Pa.eof 3
Part A: Curreti  Price Det%
(AS PteceAtse of 0P)
lase Cm  Pr tectioA
Per Capita GNP in jll ca. 100 (199)
Ni0Syesr Poputstitsh 3.86 mittLlit
~~~~........... ..................... *-. -w ..............................................................
Actl                  Ws.             Proiected
.................. ..............................- . --................................................................-* o.e s
1980    1987    198    1989       1990     1991     1992      1993      1995      IC:=
gerss oas:ic Pedoct                        100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0           100.0     1o;.;
tiaKres (oMfS)                              43.3    13.8    62.6    10.4      13.8     53.2     53.4      53.?       13.6      50.3
laparts CONfS)                              24.2    11.8    23.0    25.7      23.0      23.0    30.7       32.1      33.7      39.6
R        sU&rce  9 terG                      19.0   -2.0  *39.6   *24.7   -31.5   -25.2   -32.7    -21.6            *18.9    -la.?
Total  axpnwditurs                         119.0  102.0   139.6   124.?    135.0    125.2    122.?    121.6         11O.9    110.T
Total Cornagption                          102.3   86.2   124.6  111.7    112.8    113.2   107.7    105.7           103.5      94.r
Icnfm                                     19.?    34.2    35.3   23.3       24.0     21.8     20.?       16.6      15.1      13.t
Private                                   82.5   52.0   89.3   88.4         86.8     91.4    87.8        89.1      87.3      $1.6
Gross Ooostif  tZvecst t  1/                16.8    15.8   15.0    13.0        13.0     12.0    15.0       16.0      16.5       16.0
Governnt                                     ..      ..    19.4   16.9       6.1      8.0       9.3       7.4       6.5       4.5
privt                                        ..      ..    -4.4    -3.9      6.9      4.0       S.7       8.6      10.0      11.5
W.om.ranAn fltem:
Domastic Saving                           -2.3    13.8  -24.6   -11.7    .12.8    -13.2    -7.7          -5.7       2.5       5.3
I/  ff lealt data for 19w-90 wer adjusted  je to owvretition in le  nationalt aomts. Private investment incudue
fincres   In stoks for historical Years.
Part 0  Contat Price Oat&
(mittlion  of  .ardobes, 1980100)
........... ..................... .................................................
Actlel                 Lot.                 ProjcWted
................. ...................................................  .......  .........  ............................................
1980    19l8    13    1lu9       1990      1991     1992      1993       199       300C
................................ ................. ...............................................................................
Gros O stit Proct                         l0,?"  *1,100  17,936  17,433   16,66   16.833   17,338    18.031    19,M78         24,774
teprts  (PS)                               a.999   6,430   6,063   5,142   3,29        1,4      51        5,993     6,414      7,456
tSports (=Fs)                              5,039  3,250   2,907   3,125    3,43       3.531   3,89       4,146     4.07       6,96
surc   aance                     .        (3.960  (S3,80) (3,156) (2.017)  1861)  (1(902  (1,929I    (1,67    (1,517)           (470)
Totat lipwrdi Uar                         24,79  34,280  2,03  19,4SO   18.52    1O,73    19,267    19,8"          21t303    25,24
otsl Cont1iitc an gEpidtues:             21,20  19,61?  16,415  15,316   14,770   15,252   14,787    14,71    15,6L1    18,=3
I                                        4,103  1O,M    6,48    6,156    5,811    5.37        5,376     4.472     4,421      4,756
Privite                                 17,t16    9,395   9,935   9,160    $,959    9,855    9,381    10,403    11,220    13,614
total  tnvesnt  bpenditw053 3,490  4,663   4,675   4.134    3,77    3,503    4,510                         S,       5,61      6,87
Pri"t,                                       ..      .       ..       ..       ..       .         .
rer-of 1Tre   (IT) affect                                                       .         .        .
UVs$ $o_s:        f                           ..       ..      .                                    .. .....
_etio $svinvs CT Adjusted)                    - .                                     ..                                ..       ..
........................................................... .........................................................
Iot4. PreUtsIrouy nd projected dot  re based en ROMN estientes.



- 40 -
UICAIAWA   -   rAT0u;A ACCOWTS                                                       AUNEX A1
;;rt.........................                              Cs    f sf3
Port Ct Value AWs by Suetr
(Seterl Sheros fn Prcent)
asso Cose Proje:tfon
Actuat                     git.                    P       td
............ .....................  .......  ....... ............. ... .......................
1980     1987    1988    1MO           t19        1991      1992        19            9         X::
........................ ..... ...................................................................................................... o*. ............. -@--*^*--.X6..*--***o-*^^-
Agricwttwu                                         23.2    2O.9    29.1    31.0            31.3          .
In6try, of tAIcS,                                 29.3      22.2     21.9    20.4        20.2          ..        ..
Pining                                            0.7       0.4      0.5       1.1       0.8          ..        ..          ..
"aufeestwing                                     25.6      is.?     17.8    16.1        16.3         .      .               ..
setvlce.                                           47.5      4.9    49.0        48.8      48.           ..         ..         ...
TotUl                                             100       100      1         100 100              I00        1           100         100 lC:
......   ....0.......I................. .1 .............................................. 
Ps"  0: Long-Tem  Growth Snate
(Avvor9e Am         Growth Sat".)
.................................................................................................................................
Actual                    Lgt.                            Projeted
................................................................................................................
1970.73  1973-80 1980-6   198449           1990            199@095                       1995-2000
B. iatfonal AccWAt  Goth
(Contant Pries)
=...*........................
&e     oaustic  croat ap.                            5.1     *4.2       1.9     -4.3       .4.4                  3.5                      .          *.6
ricuttwe                                          4.9      -4.7      3.0      -51        -3.4
Ist ry                                            6.0      -4.1      1.9    .6.3        ,4.8
(of %hich Nanfa4cturit")                          5.9      *0.9      la       *?.3      -3.3
Serices 1/                                        4.6       3.9       1.2    .2.8        .4.7
pwts Of 03n                                       6.0      -5.4      -2.?     -.9.        9.9                  7.4                                 ?.
1iorts  of UP$                                    5.4       9.0     *5.4    -5.?         3.0                   3.9                                 3.1
totat SNp,iture                                      4.5      -0.1      0.3      -3.7      .4.7                   2.6                                3.0
Tot CsOWnMen                                      4.?   0.4  -1.2  .4.0   -3.6                                 1.8                                 2.a
Private CWWA imR                                4.5      -1.9     9.5       -4.6      -2.2                   3.5                                3.0
corZ l  cSewioat                                6.?      1S.9     20.8    .3.1        .5.6                  -5.3                                 1.5
troe    Oo,tfc   Westmnt                          3.3      -2.8       8.4     -2.4       -9.1                  L.5                                 4.0
fIsd  Ivest t                    .              8.4     .7          8.4     .2.      -10.2                  15.1                                 4.0
cepetty t  Iwtt                                       ..        ..        ..       ..         .
eo     omotis  i                                      .     .        ..       ..           4.7                    3.?                                4.6
Geo"  Natioal tl _                                    *.        ..       ..                -8.6                   0.5                                3.0
tP        Notiott Pro                                 *.        .-       ..                 5.9                   0.3                                3.1
.           ..................................................................
1t   tudss eteCtflty. No a water.
V/ Sclus owrnt trawfeet.



..   ..    ..                   ..        ..        ..       *v                                           AJ3wlP8X~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
.................................... .....                                   ..       ..,.. .......................
OOL  act  cot     CIA       COL                                           1* 0 
**   *-    *-                   s*s       *-       **        *-                                s       w}X)  }~~~~~~~~9"^jo
..         ,.                    s~~~~~~~~.0                                                       (S.o .. ..3sjxeft 
......................... ............. .................................................................. *0 .......
........................ ......................   ....................................... .:........
..~~~~~~~~~~ssetu                                      ..AD   ......001 .to  w. 0t0
.....................                         .......... ............0 -..   W*zt .......................  .......
*-   *-   *-         *-         *-        SK         9|>$ 9 act  "t    WI'@      -l              *                               }A
*-   *-   **  *   -*         *-         t"       ~~~~~~ot   ol;|-    allt    90-0                                          1"
XL  ZOW*llt 8gU lf ;|[ 0|l 00ot                                 't      U'Lt oLO- t
-:;PE~~~~~~~~~~~M                                    OU        "It    66,1    9010[ - * 00
fttUN 0M9    SU    b DOt  ALZ   PU                                Go    0019  El'   6010                                                   ZUN* UAIID
09t-&U    tus    lawt   0M   O"                          nbl;  cot    "It  111   sol 0                                                       0130} 
YXA        6"7           tt  "2Stt   "a                O/U         act       4tS* 0     se       t-0              931fo  0do
.................................................................................................................................
Om         6"t    C0t    2Zz                   Mt6  O"t    o"6t  996   1196   09
.............................. ........................................I.......................................................... ....... ............................
PawfUd ~  ~     ~    ~ ~        ucs16  $3weavlsa3
.............. ............................... .....   ,,,,,,........  .....................................
Vo.-   t-0             V         81-Z        1         t S-   *;vw   *'f   8,-   V%7                                         u01doM 43AU
V      ?,o           tZIL          l-g      6-.0-     1-9-        0-0;^  1-6t.   42-    CI                                      VDMNW           I }   1A0
z &   * |       ~~Olt        V--    -- 0s                    t-9-    iletv    t'-        t-t                           *$aiJd 304J"  so do
Ol 8t            Olt         t-O        t-t       9--        t9*       Vt        9.-  00 l't                                    Ue+       3 ezoOd
Olst-            93          ?IC 9- t-              to-      19'V-    9 0       S  6,       U1                               3U28u l 193o
..o    .     ..             **10S  cltot           V6-   S 1           CO       $'t   21,9
.t      Lo.sL    .0        I'll                                         no * t^.,"
.................................. I................................................................................................. ....... .......................
........................................................................II            ....I.......*............................. *;i; ..........
t                                                                 I  ....t *,----.--- ......... - 
ITInwS                                                               1 t*1



- 42 -
WsCAEAQA  * 53118*1 73*0                                              AuS5 Az
A: VotM, V              I                                          Pqe t of 2
los  Co P,rojection
... ..,  .. -........  ....... .......... -*. .-................... --............ *e .w..-,.................- .................
A4tkJB                 get.                   Projecte
..................... ............   ......  ..................... *. s........ -.**............. o-^**
180    1O96   t196    199       1990      199      1992      1993      199s      a
........................ .............. *..................................................... ....................
voLum. tric. 1980t100
NecIbC i." 1RpSrtS#
Coles                                    100.0   61.4   67.4   73.2    81.6         46.9    76.9       8I*    102.3    1W.?
Cotten                                   10.0   *35.7  177.2  124.8   122.9    135.8    16.7    19.9    281n    4.9.2
5                                        ttt 1i0.0   61.0   55.?  125.6  1I7.J    22.1    235.1    22S.1    229.?    253..
Sbring                                   100.0   29.2   30.?   40.7        *.5      41.1    47.2       54.3      69.9    119.
"                                        100.0   33.4   46.6   99.0    14.4   143.2   147.5    151.9    161.1    186.
iwwss                                    100.0   70.0   67.8   61.1        8.8   W9.2    112.9    129.8    171.7    2.7
cold                                     100.0   46.3   51.9   94.0       43.3    79.9       6.3       94.8      90.0    tO0.i
Men-Tyeaditinel & Other                  100.0      ..      ..      *-      .-        *        .         ..        ..
totatl Merc.  *groom  (909)             100.0  *-          .. *   -                  ..       ..        ..
vatl-u*rvre"t Prics CMU  mitLifn)
-chansise 1*0  tst
toffee                                     I       133      a      90       46        59       71        61       116       h
Cotton                                      30      46      53      as       3        41       50         a3       95
"St                                         30      20   05         1?       35       37       5         54        46
p,iuo                                       27      12      9       1a       10       14       17        so0      2a        Ss
Ref                                         59     1I       19     41        a        6                  74        87       129
stnan                                        a 8    't     Is       3I       23      P.        31        36   , 48            6
Old                                        $3       i2      13      S1       14       1a       19         0        24        3
on.Teaditfonsl   oth0                      103      43      3?      61       71       u         o        9        130       233
fotut Neh. tpt  (99)                              :*      236    290       321      342      400                 572    1,07.
Voltaw tnilc 196.100
N.echan4iso 1_ts:s
Feod                                        ..      ..  100.0    6.3         .5    14t.1   143.6    147.1       155.6    179.1
Ostem  Cow      oe Ga wk                                 100.0   57.6    94.7       94.4    96.1       9.4    104.1  119t.
. , o          W.. ..  100.0   7O.O                                         ".5    W67.3   109.2    111.1    118.3    134.1
Atmite  o    n.*.                           ..      ..  100.0   73.9    52.6        52.4     5.5       55.0      58.8      69.4
coIethl                                     ..      .. OO100.0      .2    67.8      67.6     51.2      67.4      9.4    110.0
Tota  .fts Us. InrtC                       ..      . *100.0   77.8        79.2     60.2      5.1       8.5      94.7    110.1
Vat -Cwuert PiIeo  CU  Nit 11tf1)
Nerchiumiss uportu
Food                                                        9        o5  9  140      1"       153       Ise       182  2 5s
=t3 CVsirbooft                              43      35       7      16   2?    t       9       30        St        36        5
PM. a        bergw                         174     12n    109       8       114      1a20     1a         113      135       231
Inteiddeto goods n.e.f.                   30       336    256      1        143      1s0      1ss       16        189       3174
Caitca  Goods,                             10a             2 334   176      1O8      176      35        236       2n0       3
Toaletu". Imports ClPIf                   88      424    720    S8         5        620      655       700       an3        
lens of ;rode Indiaos 1989.10
rer      t_adis e .l.wr  .rfee                                   100.0    97.7    100.5   107.1    109.8    116.9   1t4.7
Oe"Wso Iosrt Priage                                              100.0   107.7    109.4   108.0    111.0    131.?    14
M han  ?i            ot * r e.  .. ld.                           100.0     9.6      91.9     ".2.    9.0         94.0      96.0
.  ............*.............................                                 ..........................
I/ IitnSs Valu*d At f..b. fea 196.00
I.'



- 43 -
............A ...... . O..                            ,NE a    2f
S: Shoef Totat, wW0rou              ams
gm C&S# P?oio?tai-
t1two of Nefeha4ts  gxeEoca                          capto    d rt1oSt VetIvn
Wd Itporta (in cunmnt  ricu)                                 are"", ,   Rates
Actul    CST.        ProJected                 Actuat    gt.              ProJested
...........  .............. ................   .............. ....... ....... ................. .... ................ 
1960      1990    199       2000a            1930-69    199         1909                19952C0
.............................. ................................................. ,   #e**..............................
Nerchndis gaports Cx. S p.c.)%
Cefe.                                          37.2    21.0    20.2    2L.5                    -3.4       IIA4        4.6                    ,
Cotten                                          6.6    11.4    16.r    la.?                     2.5       *l.5       18.0                   12.1
Sugar                                           4.6    10.8        7.?      6.1 r.6                       49.5        4.1                    2.0
__rip                                           *6.0     3.1      4.6      SA4                 .9.5      *30.0       19.?                   11.4
seef                                           13.2    20.1    t5.2    12.0 80.1                         '5.6         2.2                    3.0
SwAn.                                            1.9      7.2     8.4       6.0                -4.2       24.5       15.2                   10.2
Gold                                            7.2       4.4      4.2      3.1                 *@.7    -32.8         7.3                    3.o
lion-fradftionst & Oth-                        23.1    12.0    22.8 12.2                          ..      12.?        10.1                   6.3
Total Rrch.  JPOs CtFO)                      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                       ..      13.4        6.3                    8.0
Nerchandf SO tpoets t1%,  P.O.):
ewd                                             4.4    23.6    22.2    21.3                       ..      *4.3         1.9                   2.6
Other Cruonrw COCOs                             4.9       4.6      4.3      4.2                   ..      44.3         1.9                   2.8
POL t.       Other EiWrg                        19.8    19.3    16.4    19.0                      ..      17.3         5.5                   2.8
ntermt aed       Goods n...i.                  38.5    24.1    23.0 *      3.3                    ..     *32.9        2.2                    3.4
Capital Goods                                   12.4    23.3    34.1    32.                       ..    -11.0          7.1                   2.9
total Pterh. I90rnts (Ctf) t/                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                                0.4        4.2                    S.^
............................................................. .............................................................................................. 
I/ S _ts valwed at f.o.b. for 1990*2040
C: Toa    In Nmtfeer 11"Wess
t......................................................................................... .......................................
Aeulat                    1st.                       ProJected
.................................    ..... .............................. * .........................................
1910    196?    1la        19"9      1990       1I99      1992        1993       1995       2000
..................... .............................................. . .............................
V.tum  tu1ia   1969O100:
eipoets of Nontactor Serviest                       ..        .. S             t100      100       102        106        1t0         119        1C5
tIqOts of M@nftetot Sefvie S                        ..       ..       ..      '10        101       102        104        10?         114        135
USS Price Indices 1969.00:
gEpots of ionfator Serviess                         ..        ..       ..      100       106       I          113        M1          126        15
laorts of  fonfctoer seriec                        ..       ..       ,.      100        106       *t1        113        ttt         126        155
.................................................................................................................................
.e~S.                                                                                                            C     .    *



- 44 -
UICAAA@AA-ISLAN   a9 PAY96N?5                                            AIUj3A
.......4          ..   .. ** ...........                                            2
se  Ca"s Projeetifo
. .......-.....-.*.*.-.-..-..*-.-*- ....................................... **--....................     .......-- v+...*.....................
Acttia                  is.                      Projected
1O    t196       19      1969      19       19t9      1992       1993       199       r'::
........................*          .     ...... ................................................................................................
A.      so       of Cro* oo"IF                 402      325     315      341      375       398       Is?        506        7       1,1t;
1. Heorhanse (IM)                            45       2f      36     290       321       32       40         47         572     1.071
2. ll -rosctor SrYicas                        *?      30       7?       51       53        56        ST        59                  ' 
0.   t@rts 0 e  td5& S?: 2ip.                  04        1"    5as         ?      10 1      71        79        us         90       1,42
2. "erthw4CiFO)                             616       34     no20     "        192         0       653       700        an       1,2t3
3. unpgegar Services                         1O       161     135      119      128       135       10        14         111        aw
C.    esurce *tB Se                           (43)   (570)   (543)   (336)    (US)    (35)    (336)             (342)     (337)      (311
0.   met ftor Incoes                          (122i)   (206)  C(237)   (206)    (226)    (355)    (29M)         (365)      (349)     (95.
1. factor Receipts                            19        1       2        7       10        10        Is         19        24         3;
2. Pactotr Patnets I.                        1L1      209     239      23       236       265       316        S"        572      1,0-
S. Total Interest pmSents                 120     209      239      213      236       2         314       361        563        9
t.  N1t Cgrrteunt      sferss                    2       .. .n            ..         0        50       la         50         50        50
1. Curet ReciptS                              ..       *.      ..       ..        ..       *-        ..
a.  9orkers' leittenates                   *                                          ..       ..
b. Otr Current Tro fs ."                                     *-      *-        .*
. Curret Payments                             ..       ..       ..      .*        ..        *.        .-
.   Current ccourt 8aln.2   t-r
1. *efore Official  rets                    (53)   (78    (79)  (CM)    (521    (5                 (586)      (656)     (656)    1,246
2. OfficIMt Caofat lrtS                      122      135      19      169       202      61          0          0          0         0
3. Atter OffttitCl Crnts                    (430)  C(3)   (590)   (6)            3M)       (G1)     5)        (6)        (856)   (1.246:
S.   Lonq-Ter Capit4l  Iflau n.*.I.t             6       m       382     241       214       1SO      6o               677  S        1.245
1.  etec Oirect tw     t                    (138)      76      106     (37)       (1)       10       30         40         40       135
2. Not LTU  troWin                            94       90        2    t1ol)    (225)    (6?)        5          63          17     1130
S. Disburuemnts 2.9 m                              490     26        2       221       16      1604       1.20       1,411     1:73S
b. Rapa1_ts 1./                          (201)   (40)   (2)    387)    (446)    (816)    (61               C7         (5%       (dOSt
3. Ol~  LT  Infnow  (not)                     10      37       V7      379       44        7          to)       (0)         0          0
V.   Totalt Other tm  (rt)                      149     (14)    322       3        (63)      (6)        (0)       (0)        (0)        (C0
1. Wet  'r:t Tom Capital n.s.(  3./           13      193      32?     206       24        (6)       (0)        (0)        (0)        (C)
a. Iterest Ar rs                           ..       ..               ..        ..
b. OMa  Iet ST Capit   *                            *.       *-
2. Captt FlOW n.o...                          75        a                          0         0        0                                0
3. vro   ad a  sists                          61    (215)    (25)   (150)    (26?)           0         0         a          0          0
t.   Ctange in got teserve                     217      120      (13)     66       216         O,     (14)       (21)       (n)        (18)
to) fadcate  inerasel
1. Iet Credit ft.  tile (NP                    ..      *.       *-      .         .         *.        ..-*
2. Qeserve Chang" ne                           **      *-        *       *-       *.
3. [serow Aceowlt                              *-       *.          ..                      *.                   ..
........................................................................ ........................ .........  ........  ....................................................... --
1./ &&$ed en mm  ffir. Klnr     sc0neri. (Atm     "), tb&  my differ Erm  Ce Inlesters table as welt a  test tbtes.
2.1 tIncudes Vsi#iUtif .  flow    itn fo  projected years. saw  eon u     financing scenario.
3./ Incltes USS3IS lit*. of pstpnn  of mlttitteral wrras in 1991.



- 45 -
NIICSIUAS     * SALCE OPF PAYrThVS                                      ANINX A3
.................................*                                   Page 2 of 2
(USS mIttions)
lase case Proiect,o.
ActMAl                Est.                    Projected
.................................   ........................................ . .................... .................................   -
19MO    197    1M      1989      1990     1991     192       1993      1995      20c
J.  As Shares of GP (current   S): 1./
1. tesrce Saln *s.O -36.0* -37.9                           .     24.7   -25.6   -2.2   -2.7    -21.6    -18.9   .1o 
2. ILT interest PAYMOnts                  10.01   13.9M   17.5S   16.11    17.6%    16.7    21.12      24.11     29.81    33.r2
3. Cwrrent AocoUft BaLacse               46.01  651.81  56.81  .40.3%   -42.X   -39.61   -39.31    -.41.6    -45.32   -42.re
1. LT Capitat Infltow (lie 0)              5.32   35.72  27.9X   16.21    16.01    10.6"    40.52      42.91     4.51    43.5S
5. Net Credit from the  ot0 0.01    0.0X    0.02   0.01                    0.01      O.2     0.0      0.01      0.0X      0.::
i.  forefgn txchunge Reserves:
1. Gross  s*erves (eactuing od              ..      ..     ..      ..        ..       ..       ..g.                 ..
2. cold (d-Year Londo price)                ..      ..      ..     ..        ..       ..       ..
3. aross Res* ees  intcludirg gold)        0.0     0.0   58.?  116.        7:5.2    81.8     99.4    120.1    165.6    243.'
4. Net Res. In  nths Imprts                 ..      ..    0.8    2.1        1.3      1.3      1.5        1.7       2.0      2.1
L.  echange Rates:
1. in Noninal rTerm 2.
(CS/US):
a. Primery (Officalu) Rate
Annual Average                   0.01    0.0?     191   15655  60819       4.33     7.50      8.66     10.29    13.49
-ndo O-a                        0.01    0.07     920  3150 3o                ..       ..        ..0.                .
b. MP Conversion factor            0.02    1.79      223   134    96"02       5.42     7.50      8.8       10s29    13.4;
2. In Real Term
(base 1989J100):
a. ON (PAC astiusteal                 78      94    101    100        106      III      113       115       126       1'5
b. Index Rtel Eachange Rate
(USSCS) (Inease  a sp.)            42    33f    167    100          163      132      132       132       132       13Z
U    Muoranm Item:
CP (USS million) 3./                 1200    150    131    131        1339     1421     1489       1578      8S88     29CC
UP curr. cordobs 4./                0.021   2.696    30   17112  12960         769     111t1      13978     19426      235
=................................................................................................................................
./ 8asd o Mfinfnacin  seario Sbmx A4), thus  wy differ Iro  Ke Indicators tatbe as welt M text tables.
A.1      ts in New Cordoba$ wjibS wee Introduced with the entar  reform  in 1988;  Id In Crdba Ore fe 19912000. The MP
conersion factor is et "ml to the imtleft noninal echane rate.
3./ The 1960 USS GOP we convrted #ro the local currency with th  paralel psrket exchang  rate.  In _AsRqwnt years.
us5 dollar GOP is a proct of that years change in rlt    the d,onge fn the 0-5 ONw LOC weights for that ver.
and the previous Wr  Us dotllar GP.
4./ In blilion N" Cordobes thru  90: in   lifon CrOd           Ore for 1991-2000.



- 46 -
UICARAGJ  I PTIhUMI. CITAL AiSOS 061I./                             AMiE A-
gaws, CasePrjctw                                      (US nit I leam)
Actual               We.                  PPojCStd
980   I"?7  196    1959    99         1991     M   1992 9        1995    2Se::
A. OfsSgreWFltSZC
I. 0P%ailo & R.Guar. LT                    l.      .    8.9263 22.                8.0    67.9        0.0      0.0       0.2
01f4edM  Credftors                     .       .264.6  281.2   220.8   188.0    67.9            0.0       0.0      0.2
NultilatersI..                               .    11.2    4.0      1.8    16.0a      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2
of which 183                       .       .     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1
of which IDA                       .       .     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2
Ullaggrat                            .       ..273.4  277.2   219.0   172.          67.9      0.0       0.0      0.2
Privael creditors                       .      ..    1.3    5.1      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2
suppUers                              .      ..    0.0    3.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2
pinagicia Markets                    .       ..    1.3    2.0      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      C..
2. Privect Uon-Guar. LT                     .      .      0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.:
3. Toatal LT 0isbjrswmnts                   .            618.9  286.3   221.0   188.0    67.9        0.0       0.0       .
4L. imP Piarchatse                          .       .    0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0
S. *et Shart-Term Capital                   .      .      0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.:
6. unicaent i fl so ulrces                  .             0.0    0.0    *0.0   -18.9  1336.1   1261..   1411.4   734.7
I. Publi fe   P.Ouat. LT                    .      .   253.8  387.0   438.1   809.0   82A.6    623.2    590.0    228.'
Off icio  Creditors                    .           120.9  152.4   270.5   62.0   120.6    6`17.6    586.71   US. .
Multi laterat                         .      .    34.5   36.8    36.5    40.9    487.9        76.0     70.5      44.5
of which 18*                       ..      *     3.1    8.8      7.4    11.1    1.3        11.4      9.8       4.5
of which ICA                       .       ..    0.3    0.2      0.3      0.7      0.7       1.1      1.1       1.7
si Lateral                           8.      .     6.4-  I1S.7   234.0   580.1   672.7    541.6    516.1   13.9
Private Creditwor.                             .   162.9  234.6   67.5   188.    105.9          5.5      3.3      0.:.
SupplierS..                                  .     0.6    6.7      5.2    31.4    11.1         5.3      3.3       0.0
Pinanoial Marksts                    .           162.3  W2.9   162.4   1S6.6    94.8           0.3      0.0       0.2
2, Private Ucn-Iiar. LT                      .      .     0.0    0.0      8.3      6.7      4.2       4.2      4.3       0.4
3. Unidentified Sou?eO                      a.      .               0       0        0        6         0       -0       376
4. Total LT ioepsoot                                     MIS.28.   387.0   446.4   815.?   830.8    6V7.4    594.      605.2
S. iMP SepureSeses..                                      0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.2
6. Amortizatient Arrears..                          .   273.4  373.    40.9   786.         (0.0)    (0.0)      0.0       0.2
C. Interest:
1. Public A PAGumr. LI         .             .      ..29.3  212.9   22.2   261.4   258.             221.1    144.0      65.7
Off iciat Creditors.                           .   126.1  118.3   1.48.    20.1   245.2    219.5    14a.4          65.7
Multi latwers                                      "A, 4.    36.9   3V.0    23.9    22.5      63.8      32.6     13.3
of which 550M.                             .    21.5   20.1    20.5       7.8      6.8       5.5       3.9      0.7
of which ISA                       .        .    0.4    1.4       0.4     0.3      0.3       0.3       0.2      0.2
Silateral                            ..      .      1.6   811.3   123.    206.2   222.       170.7    130.9      52.4
Prfvat. Creditor                       .       .   113.2   94.6    62.2    31.4    13.4          1.5       0.5      0.0
Suppiters                            .       .      1.0    5.6      2.4     7.9      5.4.      1.5       0.1      0.0
ffnwoeial Markets                     .           112.2   89.0    59.8    25.5       8.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
2. Privset Mon-Gupr. LIT.                           .     0.0    0.0       7.0      2.3     1.4       Is3       1.2      0.1
3. Total LT tnterost                        ..      ..29.3  212.9   234.2   263.    260.0    222.    '165.1             45.8
.4. top Service charus"                      .      .      0.0    0.0      1.9      2.4      2.4      2.4       2.4      2.4.
S. tnterest Paid an ST Debt                 .             0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
6. Unfdentfifed S&OtOe                      .       .        0      a0       0       -I      5a       56       395      916
7.Total (Olt seurow)                       .      .   239.3  212.9   236.2   265.4   314.3    360.8    562.          9843
8.tnterest Arrlears                        ..     ..22.2  20.6   224.2   245.8    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)
MeuOI Tot. AITears CAmort.*Int.)% ...    07.6  58.31  665.1  1032.6    -0.0   ,-0.0                             0.0      0.0
.. !.....................................................
1.1 eased an ONM flo  frhoi scefWsr. This scenaio incudes debt to all Gcrfedtrs, Mind ssss  WN- arars clarae if 1991 to
ISIS  tSA end log only, wd debt servi ce pa)umnt to all creditors for 199 and beyond



- 47 -
MICAli  I EXTE L CAPITAL Ul ga  1./ 
......I  .............. ........                                         ANM--e**-^*--*t$   
IMs* Case Projection                                      (USS Millions)                                                Page a of
.............................. .......................... ....................................................................... @ *@vsvo*
OttI                                  . 1.t.   Project.d
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................. . ....... ...........................................................I................. *.--M@4**X*s^-
O. Inerna  Det (Do"S                        1960    196?    191    1939       1990     1901      1992      1993     1iS        20
1. PiblrI S P.C mr. I.t                       ..      ..   6.705   7479    7,o9    7,m3        6,619     5.996      4,565     S. .
Official Credtors                        ..      . $ 5,30   6.130    632    6.199    15154          4.989      3.56      1,9ss
IPuttitlaterat                         ..      ..      11     976    1,045    1.020       97        69         m        4
Of wich t6                           ..      ..     119     19        19S    18        136        125       10        7t
of whi0h                             .. ..           5       59       59        S        5?        56        14        48
itatet                                 ..      ..   4,489    .154    5.1?    5,179    4,574       4,032      2.114     1,412
Private Creditors                        ..      ..   1,333   1,349    1,367    1,17      1,07      1,06?      lea5s     1.05.
s      fpp                             ..      ..      30      43       6t        29      1I         13          4       :
fineswiol #ea*kets                                    3 ..  305   1,30?    1,346    1,149    1,055  1,054    1,054    1.0*5
2. Prfvste Rn    w.Lt                         .. LT68                  6?       65        9       54         50        42        39
3. total Lwq-ro                               ..       ..  m6.773   7,5      6.064    7,43     6.673      6046      4,606    3,03.
4.  P Credit                                  ..       ..       0       a        0        0         0         a         0         a
S. s     rt-ToDt                              ..       ..     715s      2      715      735       755       n35       735       71
6. UnIdentifed  ores                          ..       ..       O       0       .0       19      131?      25n2      56e    j13;
t. Total t al sOtt   s )                      ..       ..  7r40t  626        6,39        m17   o6745      932    11,00?   15.9i8
S. AccwIeted Arrears                          ..       ..   256   3067   46,034    4131    4 1            4.T11     4,31      4,7n1
A. Interest                                 *        ...  11"   1.330    1.76?    1,824    1.8t4        1.824     1,824     1,U2.
. Anrtiatn                                  ..       ..   1,373   1,75     2,2?    2,927    1,9         2.9?      2,927    2,92?
9. Total Debt *  cM. Arr1 ..                           ..   ,6      9,99   10,56    9,9196   10,570    1I.0?    12.631   17.743
Sher* of P*tic It 0D0:
1. an CaessSionMt Tom                         .4       .    .          ..       ..       ..        ..        ..
2. VitO Veriable tnt. Rates                     .      ..      **      ..       .. ..                                   ..
6. gank ae IDA Ralfti
......................
1.13   to total LT 0D  Cltni  3)              ..       ..     23      2.12     a.0      2.02     2.01       2.1t       3.33     2.3:
Z.10  to totat LT 0D  (tine 3)               ..      ..     0.91   0.l1      0.7      0.5       0.91      0.95       1.33      1.;;
4.1840 to total LI OS  lifne 3)                        ..     9.0     9.4      6.0      2.9o 2.1            2.52       2.42      1..
5.iO  to tout LT 0$ (Line 3)                           ..     0.      0.A      0.33     0.11      0.11      0.1%       0.33     0.31
P. D-tot4apts GU
.....................
1. Lon*TeO Dbt                                .        ..  2136.31 2171.91 209.0   182.72  1444.61   1130.72    697.42   2S.0.
2. US, Credit                                   ..     ..     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.01      0.01       0.0      0.0.
3. Short-Tom Debt                              ..      .. 2I W.41  207.71   19.1   18.1 M          8      143.       114.n    130.1%
4. LT.INF? OQ                   .             ..       .. 2561.72 579.71 a392.5  2001.5  1563.42   1294.42    611.6    653.1%
S. Totat DObt * Arest                                      V ...  2735.01 V62.4  M25.42  2451A.6   M e.n    2133.01   1942.61  3 .r.
;. D0-to.-urren @D 
1.  ttr  *J.. .... ......................... .XOS Z2 g5 4*0 O 2. 172
1. Long-Tem Debt/OP                           .        .   494.01 575.42   602.5   5.3.51  448.01    33.01    24A.011  17702
!. IMF Credit/OP                              ..   .. .             .0.                 0.0      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.0O
s. short..erOda/to                            ..       ..     0% w5.11   5.61    5.4   53.1t    so.n        s.6      4.0       44.0
.. LT*11T  QD/GP                              .. ..   5.11  24.91   6.4   S7.6    49.7                    430.651   2 .0   221.
S. Total Debt   Aeas                           .       ..    3.51  M.4    790."   7.    709.41   710.01               1Y7f   1033u.3
6. D*t Irviee/zpets M
............. ........  
1.  tfea C aia rt       T                      ..      ..   143.01  1n.71   In."   262.1   M8.4           160.71    114.1t    50.7
1. Privat. E-u        te LT                   ..       .      0.0     0.01    6.01     2.5       1.5       1.11       0.01     0.1S
S. Totat T Debt Service                       ..        .   163.01 12.71   176.91    64.7   2W9.           M1.n      11.01   115.*7
;W J,I.t topwrebases'Serv.Chgs..              ..  ..          0.01    0.01     0.51     0.61      0.51      0.51       0.41     0.43
i. lwttes Only on ST Debt                                     0.0X    0.01     0.O1     0.01      0.01      0.0       0.08     0.0
$. Totat (Ltu IM.t*  tat.)                    ..       ..   16.011  M7.71   17.42  245.3X   D0.1X1   lf.2            i15.31    116.1S
. hitoeret Seuden Ratios
.........................
1. Total lteesUtAW      t OP                  ..       ..    17.1   164.1s    17.41    16.7X    31.11X 4.11          29.1    57.4
!. Total Int    t/    rts                     ..      ..    75.51   61.3      61.4S   4S.12    4.5         72.5      65.2    169.7?
...................................................I  .................................................................,,,,,,,,,,
./ lased on RM  fifracing scnsrio. tfis scemio Iltdes debt to all creditos,  dssms  erears etoarm     In 1991 to
left, IDA aWd 106 only. en  ddeb  sevfce psyments to alt redMitors fow  1    VW beoye .



- 48 -
MICARAGJA    PAUC FIVANCS
. ..............-..-.--                                                   ANlNx Al
la"                                                                                                                              pageP Ij.  ofr   I.
..... .............----. **vh***-*-v^X**-^*-.................................................................................................... *w^m*................. x*
Actgl                     tot.                      Projected
1. Cone  oiated con*Pastian{t ---  ^ v** *-o---****.,,,,,
Ptibl 10 Sector                             1935    1987    1938    1969         1990      19        1992       993       1995      2:
..........................   .............................................. - -*-s.........................................* *v--*^*.v*
As puroent of Currnt CDP:
A. totl Current QOceipts                        36.8    29.7    23t  2    24.3      17.1      22.4      23.5        23. r      U3        22:
1. Ta a Neee                                   3.5    23.5    21.7    21.7         16.?      18.7      19.6       19.6       19*3       tg j
2. 4ontax Current Receipts                      2.3     2 1      1.4      2.4       1.2       2.1       2.1 *.21              2.1        2
3. Op. Surpu  of Pu.  nt.                       0.3    *0.9      0.1      0.2       1.2       1.        1.8       2.0        2.0        1.S
8. Totat Current Expenditures a./               *7.7    41.3    42.6    26.0        4.3      27.8      24.9      2I.r        19.8       16.8
1. Consumotion                                39.3    36.2    33.3    22.6         35.9      21.3      20.7       16.6       15.1       13.!
2. trasfers                                               ..  ..                    5.6       6.0       4.2        5.1        4.6        3.?
3. interest b.I J                                                           *.
C. sudgetary Saving,                           '10.9   -  t    *9          1. r     2.2       -3.6      -1.4        2.0        3.6        5.2
O. Capital Esp. & Not Lending                   12.1      4.5      7.2     3.9       1.t       7.0      T7           7.6       6.?        6.7
1. 8u9etary  tvestment                         10.3     S.5      4.7      2.7       1.3       6.2       ?.3        7.6        6.3 s.
2. Capital Transfers                            1.8      1.0     2.5      1.2       0.1       0.8       0.2         0.2.     0.2         0.4
I. Capital Reverev                               0.2      0.1     0.1      0.2       0.1       0.3       0.2         0.2        0.2       0.2
f. Cs ial Satlae    Finaewwd by'               -22.8   -18.2   .26.5    .3.4    .25.5    -12.2          *8.9        -3.4       -2.9       0.7
Official Capita t,rants                        0.6     0.5      0.6      2.9      13.2      12.2       8.9        5.4        2.9        0.0
2. External sorrowi f       (neot               0.1      0.1     0.7      0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0      *0.
3. Oinstic FinancIng                           22.0    17.3    25.2       2.2      12.        0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       0. O
. CoP (cuwr. Cordoeb) c/                       0.11s5  2.696       la0  17,1   120 602    7,697   11.171    13,t78    19AU26    39.235
3I. Total PubliC *ecter d./
_.......................
Ovralt Batlme. (deficIt                    -" .44.0   .37.2   -54.4   .3.9 0   S5.9    -28.2                      ..
Non-fInenel*at  "lIt  Sector                  *22.8   -18.2   -26.3       5.4    -2S5       -12.2      -8.9       -5.4        -2.9       0.
*est of  blf e  etof                         -13.1 t    9.4    *3.2    *4.9    -14.8        -2.0         ..
Central  ank loss"2s 2.8    -5.0                                  6.5    11.9      *1.8      -0.4       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.
Ufp.id foreign Interest                        -.3    -4.6   -14.2   -16.7    -13.8    -13.6              ..
fInancing                                  44.0    37.2    54.4    38.9         33.9      28.2               '
tertl FinAming '.1                                      18.7    22.1    24.1       19.1      135.7
Oom.stic Pirnuing                                       18.0    31.7    11.9       23.6      -1.1
Foreion Grants (civilian)                       0.6      0.5      0.6     2.9       1.2      13.6       9J          3.5     2.6           0.0
Foreign Grants  ailitary)                                 .        .        ..     12.0       0.0       0.0   0, 0             0.0       0.0
............................. ............................................................--.-....--. --.-......---..------........................
./ in 1990 includes 12 percent of GOP it oxtrabudge:ary oilit ry outtlay  fInnrcd with orants fran tastcrn Eurpan Cotuntties.
.J  To  e determined.
./ Mun nts In billion New Cordobes which wer, Introduced with the monetary reform  in a, cnd in dittien tCodb   Ore for 91-20C0.
1 Excludes emproprieted prAoctiv  e torpriss (AMPP).  Rest of th  pbtie s*eter include  the stte oil anpny, foreign trade
enterprises, and expwndItures finavced by external lines of credit.
.1 tnetudes tb counterpart of unpaid foreign interest.



- 49 -
EICARAS     * WKY AO  ChIT
........    Ao
g    ow Pmctton                                                              1** t 
................................................................................... 4.......-- . .....-............................
Aetwi SJ                                      lsttmt.g
................................... ..--
1945        r      o 1987 196  139i
..............................- ........................ *...................................................................*vs***,-
A.As seam   4t CawP Cl09:
itw  booty  (3)                                                    4*.5     3.3      62.6      21.6                             21.1
Ienow  * easi ISfv C3'35)                                          M.5      3.0      4.?       24.7                             21
ttoel let D_mtfe Credit                                              77       3        64         12                              91
To Gover,i  trot) (32e)                                          45.0      1.0      70.0      42.6                             ".6
To OffeiMt 54titi. (333)                                            ..      ..        ..
To privote kite   (M)                                            R3        1.3      15.6       9.r                             u2l
Not  reign Assts (Sin) b./                                         -56.9    40.5  -426.0    546.5                              .59.2
Alt Otlte tge    twwt)                                             -39.1    -1.1    65.9    519.0                                533
3.Offsts to  opmaoA  f o:
net foref on Asets b./                                            ...42   -2.21          ..  *25.2X                           .22.S3
Credit to  ove      t                                               6J.    21.43         ..    175.42                            M
credit to oftfIial Eftit*es                                                    *         *
Credit to Privete  Stor                                             40.6    46.1S        ..       9.92                              .62
et oter Asts S Liabilities                                          M.5    31.71         ..   2141.02                           20W  . 
tnerees  Inin   ony  Ousiiey                                       100.01  100.01       ..    100.02                            100.02
.**.......&.............. 1....................................................... ..........
s.1 kgfming 19   there fs * brook fn te comerabitty of te dsu.
s./ Snctlide L&Wtets  reign Lfeblitties.



?age :! _Z
Sodl lgdiass of Devedop"sms Mo0
ax.N> ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ .iCrP
Ps ~~~~~~~~~~~thu                                     240       3370    Z  31   G"i i        =
TesKa;vwudfaw44 _Yb2                                                                  .         .        3..
pX_t:         O                          Pq             _9 _             $1.14     SS19    63ats10
WS8N~~~~~~~~~~~~bt                           ii.   .   i2        19        7 3.^  .2
_w_a pi_ 10i                                            .. _ob  1* .1.                          *        .
d                                                                        13Mds 1t       .   
CU_rboo :u                         pw tmP            49.                 41L'        i38a 6
UAWI  1011^                           _0                        t21 m                 X 
R W   :U*{_f                                     31-6      3                   1;3 
1*" no                              r 1_ b
le d    M                       ptbmot=1149,                                     371        iI3      45u}  4"24  
U    rA 3                                   af - q                                 0_
,~~~~bw OV,                                       M4 15.  Ad   1                                   6
_w~~~~fn _L     A_                                                                   67.       69  _  
- _wwwl4 .__                             ..6                                       4.0      24A        911



- j1 -                          .      Sex 3
?age " ~f
SodS  jdimrs @1 Develpmet. IWo
Nicrapa
U3-io    lszW             Law te   'emu_. -  _
VICOA DPOVMT
pwraplA(t"w a197)                              330      630             1350    t32       3,80
TbmI pub.t6 mom. A
Sla e10w thaebd    _ b             UIS          .. , .q,
S bo w 2D o.aait_l                               ..      9        ..
Sbm so 40n obiwaIM29                            .. ..
AaU "01'uI31b  ..m  uw  , . S .p .               ..
q a a_ km. .v.  .a.                                                         _       .
Piwaie of _wmaa (.darS)         -d&prw                         .. _1
Mm. 5* mR. mi. _gg _ .
Ma.                         erna. _aw           4       5        _j   _75        _~    27..
e~~am           2~~~$~  U41S     2.7j Z!4          236.71
R-^   Ad _ ns            _        *IDP-   ,                        *. _
ad awams-b                                     3  
Id mdw p__
sonvAnom W4.ap"            Ii 172.           20.      USA      67.1    $4.7   1i.5?.
U__                           *dhiI          _        _            ..
T,_Sednuald                       Safoa __      t4 X                      Sl       $.      S
PSinimbOqI  tild *                                     _           ..       -        ...
TonI 1u_nIr                         _            US                 4       1        1 3S
P~.1aa_rip  -w      u              d t_*___.
~~~_t^_            _              *    d           *       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 it   17 
an                           - A
Old du)4M1 Ibw  (minw  )                                          its~.    33A      3.
os 2 ~~~*auiegy                         0.@               99               tWA
atA
?umZdmn_asina                 *dm~       _        9.        - dS.
"14     39
S                  -  4                                      1Ai  5 I4
* dMMi 9         du
- Se                                             5t 45  - - f  -d
2___~~~~~~~~~~~~3. 4_5   <L?  739  12.
~ __



52 -                           Annex C
page I of 12
NMINISTER10 DE LA PRSSI0ENCIA
LETER OF DEVELOPMEN POUCY
Managua, July 25, 199: (9:26am)
Mr. Barber 3. Conable
President
The WorLd Bank
Washington. D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable,
1.     After free elections in February 1990, the Chamorro Government took
office in April 1990 inheriting a devastated economy which was performing at
extremely depressed levels compared to a decade earlier. Private sector
participation in the economy was minmal due to extensive public sector
intervention through ownership. monopoly, and regulation of economic activities
as vell as heavy domestic aud external resource use. This, coupled vith
mismanagement of economic policy, resulted in major inefficiencies of resource
use and production, and reduced doaestic savings and productive investment.
Additionally, the economy was highly unstable, with hyper-inflation reaching
about 34,000 percent p.a. in 1988.
2.     From the beginning of its regime the new Government has pursued a reform
strategy which emphasizes the importance of establishing and saintaining price
stability and structural adjustment. The main focus of the strategy has been to
reduce the size of the public sector, to realign relative prices. and to achieve
the preconditions of a market economy. Zn line with this strategy, the Government
has ad,opted a set of policies in the areas of expenditure reduction, tax reform,
monetary aad exchange rate policy. and trade liberalization.
3.     After achieving some initial suceess in reducing the rate of inflation
in 1990, the Government's economic policies came under pressure from extended
strikes and other political difficulties. Under more relaxed fiscal and monetary
practices, inflationazy pressures increased and the year was closed with a
decline in output and more thau 7,000 percent annual rate of Lnflation.
NJonetheless, the Governmet was successful in restoring peace to the country and
in formally achieving a consensus among the different groups in the society. A
concertacidn" agreemeat was successfully concluded among the Government. labor,
business, and the Sandinista opposition in October 1990, which would pave the way
for successful implementation of the Government's economic policies.
&Z .6



- 53 -                            Annex C
Page 2 of :2
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENr PO0..ICY          2
I. THE STABILIZATION PROGRAm
4.     After consul:t:ion wi:h iterna:iona. 0oganizacions includizg the DT and
the World Bank. the Gover=men: announced a far reach;ng stabilization prog:am on
March 3, 1991. The main elements of the stabilization program included:
Changi'.g the official parity of the cdrdoba (oro) from 1 CS to 5 CS per dollar.
Convertibility at that rate for trade purposes will be progressively increased
with the ain of achievi.ng free convertibility by year*s end. The old cordoba was
taken out of circulation completely by April 30. 1991.
Conmitting, from March 4 onward, to refrain from emitting any new money that is
not backed by international reserves. The Central Bank will not extend credit to
finance the public sector def cit. and it will give credit to the banking system
only to the externt that it is backed by cor:esponding foreign currency inflows.
Pursuing public sector wage policies which are consistent with reducing inflation
and maintaining fiscal discipline. Revenues will be increased primarily by
widening the tax base. Expenditures will be strictly limited to tax revenues plus
actual receipts from foreign grants and loans, and the government payroll will
be gradually reduced through a voluntary program of job reconversion.
5.     This  stabilization  program  has  been  closely  scrutinized  by  the
international comamunity. In various fora the DMF, the World Bank, and the 1DB,
and bilateral donors have strongly endorsed the program and have acknowledged the
Government's decisiveness in implementing such a program under strenuous
economic, social, and political circumstances.
S.     The results of the implementation of the stabili:ation program are very
encouraging. After eleven months of weekly inflation rates ranging from 6 to 20
percent, the rate of inflation declined quickly after the corrective shock
following the March 3 devaluation, and amounted to only 12 percent from end-March
to end-April, becoming negative in May. Industrial sales recovered significantly
from February to May and were at higher levels than a year before.
IT. TIE STRUCTUAL ADJgSThT PROGRAM
7.     The Government considers that stabilization and structural adjustment are
preconditions to economic recovery after many years of depression, and that they
also pave the way to sustained growth with equity. It is our conviction that,
without economic recovery, stabilization will not last very long, and without
stabilization and establishment of a supportiag macroecoancaLc environmete. out
adjustment efforts will be unproductive. Consequently, the Government is oww
poised to intensify its efforts toward structural adjustment. The main elemeats
of this program have been discussed with the World Bank staff, and the final
design of the program has benefitted from these discussions.
Medium Term Macroeconamic Framework
8.     The Government attaches primary importance to maintaining macroeconomic
policies which support the objectives of structural adjustment. To this end, we
are committed to pursuing the following:



54 -                          Annex C
?a;e 3 of I'
LETTER OF DEVELOPMEEN  POLICY           3
Fiscal  policT which  maiztains  the  proper  balance  between  revenues  and
expenditures. and which avoids recourse to Central Bank financing. While the need
for external financing wil continue in decreasing magnitudes. the objective is
to achieve a balance between Gover-,ment revenues and non-interest current
expenditures by 1993 through expenditure rationalization and improvements in
revenue performance.
Monetary policy which encourages financkal resource mobilization and improves the
efficiency of resource allocation. Together with financial sector reforms, this
will be achieved through the maintenance of positive real interest rates and
eventual interest rate liberalization. The Government will ensure the consistency
of the monetary program with the objectives of stabilization and adjustment,
which will put tight constraints on increases in the Central Bank stock of net
domestic credit.
Exchange rate policy that helps to maintain competitiveness and profitability in
the tradeables sector and encourages the diversification of the country's
exports. While implementing tight fiscal, monetary and income policies, we will
also monitor developments closely and take actions promptly, when warranted, to
account for changes in domestic and external factors.
Pblic Sector Reform
9.     The Government's structural adjustment policies will have a particular
focus on public sector reforms, financial sector reform, and reforms in the
system of incentives. In the area of public sector reform, the reduction of the
size of the public sector is one of our priorities. During the previous decade.
the public sector sharply expanded its share in resource use as the deficit of
the public sector peaked at 54 percent of GOP in 1988.
10.        Expenditures. In line with our stabilization objective, we plan to
keep Central Government expenditures under USS 390 million in 1991, with USS 338
million represented by current expenditures. This represents 63.2 percent of the
current expenditures of the previous year. This drastic cut is to be achieved
through the continuous rationalization of the public sector, with particular
emphasis on military expenditures. The Government's objective is to ensure that
in the medium term the Central Government will be a net saver, in contrast with
its perforzance during the previous decade. To thls endt
Non-interest current expenditures will be reduced by another 7 percent in 1992
from the level programed in 1991 at US$ 330 million. To eusure this outcome, the
FY1992 budget will accommodate no more than US$ 315 million of non-interest
current expenditures. This outcome will be partly achieved through aapproximate
15 percent cut in military expenditures.
By FY93 we will target another restructuring in the budget which will ain at
reducing non-interest current expenditures by an additional 9 percent in that
year, a level which we expect will correspond to Government revenue.
;SM,0_6 A



5-                            Annex C
?age 4 of 12
LETTER OF DE ELOPP.X-rNT POLICY         4
Beyond 1993. we will aim to cover recurring interest payments expen.ditures from
the currenc budget with domestic resources, and the Central Government to produce
a net savings in funds.
The Government will carry out a public expenditures review in 1991-1992, jointly
with the World Bank, which will provide a basis for the restructuring of the size
and composition of public expenditures. We expect to incorporate some of the
resulting recommendations in FY92.
11.        As part of our public sector restructuring effort, the Goversment has
implemented an employment reconversion program which aims at voluntarily reducing
the size of public sector employment. With funds from USAID. we are targeting
more than 10.000 public sector employees to be retired in 1991. The program has
been very successful in that more than 8.000 employees applied to take advantage
of the retirement scheme. During the year, we extended the program to cover the
financial public sector and state economic enterprises. We plan to continue with
the program. targeting an additional 10,000 employees in the public sector. if
we can obtain additional external funds in 1992.
12.       Ptrivatization.  Another  important  aspect  of  our  public  sector
restructuring efforts is the privatization of state owned corporations and
companies. There were some 350 such entities when this government came to office.
Their activities ranged from agricultural farming. to manufacturing, and to trade
and other services. Some of these companies were monopolies in their respective
areas of operation, while others acted as regulatory agencies. The Government
aims to drastically reduce public ownership in econoemc activities, dismantle
state monopolies, and eliminate undue regulations. After having set up an
umbrella organization (CORNAP) to assume the responsibility for privatization,
we formulated a strategy for divestiture. Some 96 enterprises have already been
either returned to previous owners whose properties were illegally confiscated
under the previous regime, liquidated, or privatized. Our goal is to accomplish
the objectives of privatization rapidly. The plan is to finalize divestiture or
complete preparations for privatization for at least 90 percent of enterprises
by the end of 1993. Xn line with this objective, the Governmet will complete the
following by March 15, 1992s
Finalize the prlvatization of at least 23 additional companies.
Finalize devolution, liquidation or assignation of an additional 5O companies.
Take concrete steps toward the preparation of an additional 30 companies for
privatization.
13.        Public Utilities. During the previous year,  the Government was
successful  in  eliminating  the  deficits  of the  public  utilities  through
adjustments in their tariffs and rates. There is still a need, however, to
improve their overall efficieancy in operations. This will require changes in
areas  such  as  organization,  incentives,  autonomy  and  accountability  of
management. and decision making. To provide a framework for such changes, the
Government plans to undertake, with support from the Vorld Bank, a comprehensive
study covering the various aspects of public utLlities operations. This study
will commence before March 1, 1992.
/:   



- 56 -                         Annex C
-aze 5 o! :'
L 1"rER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY           5
14.        Tax Administration. The Government has already taken important steps
to revise the overall tax rate structure. We believe that these rate adjustments
will yield their full effects, in the form of higher revenues and improved
incentives. as a result particularly of the implementation of major improvements
in tax admnistration and enforcement. The Government, therefore, has prepared
a plan of action to reform the customs and internal revenue services.   In
accordance with this plan, the Government has already created a separate unit
within the General Directorate of Revenue to improve the administration of taxes
collected from the 280 largest taxpayers. Several customs posts have been
relocated to improve customs control.  The separate taxation unit for large
contributors will serve as a pilot project for the development of a modernized
tax information system and streamlined tax administration procedures  It will be
extended subsequently to the entire system. and it is expected to be fully
operative by August 1, 1991. Other actions that will be completed before October
1991 include:
The distribution and implementation of simplified tax declarationlpayment forms
and procedures.
The publication of a decree establishing stricter s8nctions for tax evasive or
delinquent practices.
The publication of a second decree revising the penalty structure for tax evasion
and delayed tax payments in accordance with the fiscal cost of the infraction and
the lateness of payments.
The relocation of all customs posts identified in the action plan.
The revision of customs valuation lists, vhich will be updated on a monthly
basis.
15.        In addition to these short term measures, the Government aims to
address the main institutional weaknesses in tax administration in the context
of a medium to long terz strategy. Toward this end, the Govenment is planning
to take steps to: (i) develop automated managment control systems and a
computerized taxpayer identification system, and (ii) train Customs and Internal
Revenue personnel, especially in the areas of auditing and the use of computers.
By March 1992, the arrangements for technical assistance to implemeat actions in
these areas will be finalized, consultants will have been hired, and program
implementation will have started.
FinancIal Sector Refon"
16.        The plan for reform of the finmacial sector is consistent vitb the
overall economic reform strategy in other sectors. Through a series of regulatory
changes the role of the public sector in financial intermediation activities will
diminish, in such a way as to create the conditions that allow a greater private
sector participation in the financial sector. The ultimte goal of the plan is
to improve the efficiency of financial intermediation and resource allocation
through the establishment of a competitive, free entry, private sector oriented
finAncial system.



- 57 -                             Annex C
age 6 of '2
LETTER OF DEVELOPmE.O T POLICY          6
17.        aestructuring the State Owned Banks. A restructuring of the state
owned banks will form the cornerstone of the reform program for the financial
sector. This is not only essential to attract viable private sector financial
institutions to the economy. but also to eliminate the enormous cost to the
Goverament and the economy of the current state bank system. To initiate the
restructuring program the Government will adopt an action program by July 1i,
1991 which incorporates the following measures:
The recharter, within 24 months, of the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo and Banco
Popular to provide financial and technical assistance services for rural and
agricultural development and small scale enterprise. During the transition
process. BND will be transferring its coomercial operations to the private banks
in step with the capacity of those banks to provide these services. Both BND and
BP will be funded exclusively through forelgn grants and domestic resources which
have been budgeted for in the Central Government. During the transition process
before adoptior of the new charters, both institutions will operate under
competitive conditions with private sector finaucial institutions.
The liquidation or merger of Banco Inmobiliario with Banco NicaragUense de
Industria y Comercio (BANIC) within 6 months.
The restructuring of BANZC as a public financial institution subject to exactly
the same conditions as any competing private sector financial institution,
including redimensioning it to be compatible with financial viability.
The measures required for the Fondo Nicaraguense de Inversiones (FNi) to become
a second-tier banking institution.
And the dissolution of the Corporacift Fiwanciera de Nicaragua (CORFIN) by March
1992.
18.        By March 1992, the Government will have completed all administrative
and regulatory requirements needed to impleamet the action plan in its entirety.
Additionally, financial sector employment will have been reduced to levels
compatible with financial viability and the minimm investment required to
restord solvency to SANIC will have been determined. All banking functions of
CORflN will have been consolidated into the appropriate state owned banking
operation, with the elimination of COSFIN.
19.        The   Superintendency.  Creating   and   implementing   a   strong
Superintendency is a critical element of the plan to develop a well functioning
private banking system. The Superintendency has the responsibility to society at
large to monitor banking activities and to enforce their compliance with
established norms. Owing to the importance of this aspect of the financial sector
program. a law has already been passed for The Creation of Superintendency and
Financial Institutions. By July 15, 1991, additional measures wiil be taken:
A qualified Superintendent will be designated.
The Superintendent will be housed and at least partially staffed and equipped to
assume operations.



- 58 -                          Annex C
Page 7 of L2
LzrrER OF DEVELOMEENT POLICY            7
Regulations acceptable to tDA w411 be isssued to execute the Superintendency Law.
A financing source for any technical assistance required to prepare normatives
chrough the Sup*.intendency will be identified.
By October 1991, the Superintendent will have issued nomatives to perzit the
initiation of private banking operations. and by December 1, 1991. will have
approved applications for private sector financial institutions.
20.        Law of Banking and Finncial Institutions. The Gover= ent recognizes
that a todern and comprehensive Law of Banking and Financial Institutious is
necessary, to complete the legal framework to establish a financial market with
free access that encourages competition, to authorize the privatization of state
owned banks, and to develop modern prudential regulations.
21.        By end-July 1991, the Government will produce a terms of reference for
developing and implementing the nev Law of Banking and Financial Institutions.
The terms of reference should identify a team, a technical assistance financing
source, and a timetable for the development of the new law.
22.        By March 1992, a modern Law of Banking and Financial Institutions will
have been developed and submitted to the National Assembly.
23.        Monetry and Interest late Policy. Appropriate monetary and interest
rate policies are not only necessary to maintain price stability, they are also
crucial for the development of domestic savigs and an efficient and competitive
finacial systes. The Goverment has already introduced a transitional interest
rate structure which indexes deposit and leading rates to the US dollar. Interest
rates oudomestic lines of credit have been increased to 3 percentage points
above the deposit rate, also indexed to the dollar. Monetary policy is conducted
with an objective of achlieving price stability and reserves targets, where
corresponding ceilings established for net doestic assets are met.
24.        By March 1992, the Government will have introduced a new interest rate
policy which completely liberalizes deposit rates and maintaias only a band of
contrql. around lending rates. The band of lending rates will be sufficiently wide
to allow the possibilty of lending interest cates equivalent to rates in the US
adjusted for currency and country risk. The rediscount rate will be uinifon for
all borrowers, and will lie above the average deposit rate prevailing in the
finacial system.
TSade LiberalLatmon and Market Reforms
25.        PrLvate-sector driven economic growth and Nicaragua's  efficient
insertion into world trade require not only the retreat of the state from direct
control over GDP, but also the elimination of obstacles to the functioning of
internal and external markets. The Government has launched a far-reaching program
of liberalization and promotion of foreign trade across all products and sectors
of the economy. Measures have already been taken, and will continue to be
directed, toward the elimination of entry and eoit barriers to economic
activities and (domestic and foreig) markets, the achievement of a neutral



-59-                          ,nnex C
Page 8 of 12
LETTER OF DE'"rz.OPMEN'T POL:CY         8
foreigA-trade regime. and the provision of services necessary for arket
transparency.
25.        State Trading Monopolies. The state trading monopolies that controlled
virtually all of export and most of import trade during the 1980's have been
etiiinated by Legislative Decree in January 1991 and substituted by a system of
cocercial registration at the Miinistry of Economic AffaLrs and Development.
Regulaticns.  passed  in  June  1991.  ensure  complete  automaticity.  non-
d_scretionality and transparency of the registration process. Addti onally;
De facto trading monopolies. due to the dominant position and forvard-integration
of state-owned enterprises in certain product markets (e.g. meat and sugar). will
be dealt with in the context of the government's privatization plan.
Specifically, CANSA's monopoly on domestic purchases and distribution of sugar
will be eliminated by Harch 1. 1992.
The government will take further steps to improve the legal basis of free private
sector participation in foreign trade during the remainder of 1991.
27.        Quantitative Restrictions. The 1980's were charicterized by pervasive
non-price restrictions on foreign trade. Over the past year, most of these
restrictions have been eliminated. At present, and apart from currency
convertibility, quantitative restrictions remain only on exports of some natural
resources, basic grains, sugar and capital goods, and on imports of basic grains,
sugar and products of the poultry industry. In addition:
Export permits for precious metals, timber, fish, crustacea and live cattle will
be dealt vith in the context of controls on exploitation (see below). Trade in
basic grains will be subjected to a price band (see below).
In the case of products subject to quotas in international markets (currently:
sugar). quota access conditions imply the necessity of distributing such quotas
among exporters. By March 1, 1992, access to the quota will be based on a bidding
system to exclude non-price rationing and minimize government discretionality.
All other quantitative restrictions on non-petroleum imports and exports (but
those of basic grains) will be completely eliminated by March .. 1992.
28.        Tariff Reform. Trade liberalization and thus tariff reform is at tbe
core of the Government of Nicaragua's program of structural adjustment and of the
fundamental shift from an economic philosophy of import substitution toward
incentive neutrality as the basis for Nicaragua's insertion into world markets.
Even though substantial advances have already been made to reduce naminal
protection and render it more uniform, a high rate dispersion and a certain lack
of transparency persist.
29.        Duties on imports to Nicaragua include the basic tariff (DAU) applied
to imports from outside the Central American region as well as the Selective
Consumption Tax (ISC) on selected imports and a flat 3 percent stamp tax on
imports from all origins. Nominal protection currently ranges from 3 percent to
143 percent and averages 18 percent, the second lowest leveL in Central America.



-     60 -                       Annex C
?Pe3 9 o f 1'
LETTER OF DEVELOPIMEN  Po,.:Cy         9
Tho Govermnent of Nicaragua is committed to reduce nominal import protection and
rate dispersiofl according to the folloving schedule:
Dy August 1991. nominal import protection (NIP) wilL be lovered by Decree and its
dispersion reduced to a LOZ-602 range- The Decress -- and widely published public
announcementS to this effect -- wilL further include a timetable according to
which, by December 1991. the NIP range will be reduced to 10Z.soz, and
progressively in well-def4ned steps to reach a tariffs-only range of I0Z-20 by
December of 1993. The only exceptions to this rule will be medicines and books.
By March 1992. according to the NIP reduction program, the NIP rates will have
been lowered to a 102-40Z range.
So as to avoid exemptions to this regime and thus unnecessary distortions, the
government will negotiate with the respective foreign agencies that in-kind
donations should reach local markets under competitive conditions, and will
remove income tax exemptions as well as prepare a program to phase out indirect
tax exemptions. including import tax exemptions.
30.        Decontrol of Foreign Exchane  Restrictions on access to foreip
exchange for current account purposes are among the most damaging of quantitative
restrictions. The Government of Nicaragua's move toward free trade and efficient
markets therefore implies a rapid process of decontrol of foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange allocation under the Sandinista government was highly
centralized and discretional. Exporters did not have guaranteed access to the
foreign exchange generated by their operations. Foreigi exchange retention of
export proceeds by the government is not currently enforced, with the exception
of the foreign exchange revenue generated by cotton and coffee exports.
Legally, the Export Promotion Decree, to be passed in August 1991, will provide
exporters with unrestricted access to own-generated foreign exchange for current
account operations. Similarly. the Investment Promotion Law, enacted In June
1991, guarantees foreign investors access to foreign ezchange for transfers of
dividends and profits as well as for the repatriation of principal.
Alithogh the government is committed to achieve full current account
convertibility of the C6rdoba by March 1992, the allocation of foreign exchage
from official external credit lines and donations will continue to be regulated
by the Cettral Bank for reasons of compliance with donor an creditor
restrictions. Nevertheless, the allocation process will be drastically simplified
and its transparency increased, and steps will be taken to ensure that allocation
will not entail rationing of eligible demand by means of non-price criteris by
March 1992.
After July 1991, foreign exchange operations will be progressively transferred
to the cowercial banking sector.
31.        Agricultural Trade. With the objectives of reducing  Government
intervention, barriers to private sector participation. and incentive distortions
in the production and trade of basic food grains (rice, beans, maize and
sorghum), an action plan has been approved that contains the following elements:



-61l -                          Annex C
Page 10 of 1:
LETTER OF DEVELOPMrENT POLICY    10
Support prices for all fou: products will be elimina:ed by August 1991. ENABAS
will buy grains at prevail.ing market prices. E.VA3AS will also offer to private
t:ade:s and producers storage and related services for a fee. i: may also rent
out par: of its faci4"ties.
Payments in kind to public sector employees (A'A package) will be monetized as
pa:: of the salary before October 1991.
A price band system with variable levies for rice, yellow corn, and white maize
will be designed before August 1991, and implemented before March 1992.
Any remaining quantitative restrictions on food g:ain imports will be eliminated
by March 1992. ENA3AS will offer to private traders the service of importing on
their behalf (bundling orders). An action plan for the elimination of
quantitative restrictions on exports will be prepared by the same date.
ENABAS wi1 refrain from trading in all but basic grains before March 1992. A
program for privatizing its retail and wholesale outlets will be prepared by the
end of 1991. At least 20 percent of its corresponding assets 'will be sold to
wholesalers or distributed as part of severance payments to ENA3AS employees,
before March 1, 1992; the rest will be divested before the end of 1992.
A medium-term strategy and action plan for redefining the future role of ENAJAS,
restricting ENABAS intervention in regional grain markets to such markets where
private competition is insufficient, and privatizing and/or leasing its
facilities whenever competitive private participation can be ensured, will be
prepared before March 1992.
32.        Export and Investment Promotion. The thrust of the government's export
and investment promotion policies is the elimination of the anti-export bias
inherent in Nicaragua's history of controls and protection, and the provision of
a clear legal framework for property rights, as illustrated by the following:
The new Export Promotion Decree, to be passed by September 1991, protvides for the
exemption of inputs for export production from import duties and indirect taxes.
As pare of the Decree, non-traditional exports will receive additional temporary
incentives, in the form of negotiable tax credit certificates, to compensate for
the economy's anti-export bias during the adjustmeat phase. The by-lawn of the
Decree will be elaborated by the same date and implementation is to be completed
by March 1992.
The Foreign Investment Law, adopted by the National Assembly in June 1991.
guarantees the foreign investor's right to profit and dividend tranosers as well
as the repatriation of his capital.
The Decree on Duty-Free Export Processing Zones, to be adopted before Board
presentation, specifies further stimuli to exporters who meet certain minimum
criteria.
Finally, one-stop administrative procedures will be in place by the end of 1991.
simplifying current needs for the exporter to deal with a diverse array of
government institutions.                                                      ro>



-62 -                              Annex C
?a&e 11 of
LET"ER OF 0ZJZ OP-yXVT POL:CY    11
33.        Domestic Deregulation. A very significant reduction of gcvernment
intervention in the economy, and the development of open and competitive markets,
a:e necessarY conditions both for a more efficient use of resources and for
creating a favorable climate for the reactivation of private economic activity.
Where government intervention is necessary on social or economic grounds, it will
be done under transparent and equitable rules. while simplifying bureaucratic
procedures to the greatest extent possible. In this coutext, the folLowing
actions will be taken:
The legal framework permitting price controls, except for natural monopolies,
will be abrogated before March 1992.
Transitory price setting adopted for selected products in Government-owned stores
will be eliminated before March 1992.
An action plan to phase out price controls of tho fiscal industries and to
refomulate  the  Selective  Consumption  Tax.  confining  it to  luxury goods
regardless of origin, vill be prepared before March 1992.
The state institutes in charge of regulating exploitation in-mining (8INZ) and
fisheries (INPESCA), after separating from them their correspoanding production
and trade activities, will be transferred from CORa to EDE before August 1991.
Terms of reference for studies to design the regulatory frameork for the
management of natural resources will be prepared by September 1991. This
regulatory framework will be implemented before March 1992.
Any regulatory entry barriers to the private sector in other activities still
remaining under CORNAP production monopolies (sugar mills, export slaughtering
houses, bananas for export) will have been eliminated before August 1992.
Social Sector Prorams -
34.        Two programs have been established to ensure that the burden of
stabilization and structural adjustment does not fall most heavily on the poor.
The Emergency Job Creation program is administered by the Emergency Social
Investment Fund (FiSE) that was cteated in November, and a campaign for social
protection of the most vulnerable groups (will be *dainistered by the Fund for
Attention to Oppressed Sectors (FASO) t
Emergency Job Creation. The emrgency job creation program (FISE) is expected to
generate the equivalent of 30,000 man-years of temporary employment At a total
cost of USS 62 maillion in 1991, and 40,000 man-years at a Cost of 1S$ 83 million
in 1992.
Protection to Most Vulnerable Groups. The campaign for social protection (FASO).
with a projected budget of uS$ 87 million in 1991 and VS$ 103 milliot in 1992,
will create additional social safety nets for the mst vulnerable of the societys



- 63 -                            .Anex C
?age !Z o.;
LETTER OF DEVELOPMESEN  PCLtCY          12
Emrgency feeding programs will be di:ected toward rural and urban cMild care
centers. homes for invalids and the elderly indigent, and orphans of war victims.
A totsl of 40.598 persons are expected to participate in the feeding program.
Occupationa. training for the unemployed will target 20,000 vorkers laid-off as
of March 1991 and will provide them with training, free transportation and
foodstu''s du:ing the duration of the t:rining.
A microenterprise credit program for 10.050 people will promote and protect
micro-entrepreneurs working in the informal sector. The small busizess people
will receive technical and managerial training programs and credit through the
micro-fund of the Banco Popular.
A special health support program will be added in 1992.
tIZ. CONCLUSIONS
35.        The Government of Nicaragua is coitted to pursuing policies which
lead to renewed and sustainable growth and an improvement in living standards for
the citizens of Nicaragua. The actions and policies outlined in this letter of
development policy will support both of these objectives. Since taking office in
April 1990. the Government led by President Chamorro has demonstrated its
comitment and political will to initiate both stabilization and adjustment
measures under extremely difficult conditions. To ensure the successful
completion  of these  programs, howver, adequate  financial  and  technical
assistance from the international coiumity are needed. In this coantest. we
request the World Sank's final tal support foL the implementation of our program
for economic recovery and adj Atment.
Ministro de Economia y Desarrollo



* Inex;
- 64 -                            Matrix of Action.s
Page 1 of 9
~[sEss _ *AMinmmn    .it0  . .       *                      *U IWUT I
I                     A~~~~~~CTIO  NS ACoP                       ACTIMN  TO K  A00110
SEP05 N"ZEGIAtIONS          EpolI" OMO   UNESTATIO           Ue  "men Ii  I
&"i     ui  Aintai        A stebitiIgtiot  ,rwm"M  has  Msinte        of an                         of an
ftrO ic                    b l e" initist5;   COrOC ge was  aWrWi*toe m.ro.enic         i,rWiste muroscume
fruSft C@msitVnt    c vItUd by 4AG  WfCWt.               ffgt_     , nctidA  fisa"l   frinwok  CSiUw  trm
with tho oJactiWO   Of                                   defisit   i dstie  credit   s  .aiLi)
price stability, tram      Expuiturw toreted in           e$tlirn  eeistont with
am *xiagg rate             line with exscted revenue.   stabilization ojctivl           Setisfactor  prov
lit ralitztion, Ve                                        (Beag PrPtat i                        tatiGn (IM
asgeg of pevflts           Adopted Cah hbipting                                          tg agition).
Owili,ri f .               procres for *phndit-
urge.                         Naintonne  of achangeo
rate poticy w0ic" is
Monthly Creit celfr4a for   cwmiatent with eaprt
Centratl an  creditS          cetitivenms, Kg  idleh
-stablished.                   reftlcts changes In
:tsry, bsllw   of
pos_ts, wi trade wd
foreign eschw    reserve
indicators.
atisfsctocy Pr0re
itl_nttion (cgg
T*ntative date for second tranulie release.



Anne% D 
- 65 -                               Matrix of Actions
Page 2 of 9
iS8UI AnD OsCTIKS                      A     S AfOPI                       ACTONS TO 5I ADOfU
U NWOTATISM                  al    SO=              D1u0=B AMC  992
PRISSUTATION            _                        I
Larpe  lso of public   ludgeI ty expa4ttuaee    k4dctio. of Ceautal       Adoption of:
aector with hiu        for F191 haver bee       Gaverwat aon-Vate  st
total ouperdt-         restralnd, LUdU* a   curra*t expoaditumo In   (a) 1192 Budget with
urea/Dop ratio and     signficant reductio  In  the prood nY92 budgt  reduced Ceutral
current                dutary anodlrurse.    to less than V5$325          Gover=oUt non-intereat
expelturlGOP ratio                              nilos equivalent          curret exnditues
(&rd Presentless 0  thn US$325
cmdA                     milmli"Uoevale-ts
(Scn tnui
caa4h11ha) VWd
(b) An actio plans.
att.SfectoY to IDA.
bas on
recoinndatioa. of the
joint Govers_entID
public oz.dltue
Weak Institut4n-I
3apscity to puln ad
monitor public
ezedtutos



Annx 
- 66 -  ~ ~ ~ ~ tatrix of Acti.ons
-66 -
Page 3 of 9
iSSgS - OMICftVlS                       Auto" WTB                          ACtSollS T1 a #Om
WP@ut SO@?Iatgg  " 396-6OMU 36IUNIAIS         NICK6 60A   1992
_zai                      /1      11_ soctf               J   Neti t    l %IR1 igeb
SiOt  lion to   .   sItSt*i
1 0woe  v1 to?         of  a5.  *itst
_  bill.                4refts Mw olio kt
ruip.111  of 5100
a os Aotic UCtOt         ilitwyffiC.
Work force No
flaitot. reellotttin
of dSOM tlaor to    Institutin of * hirinw
prOative _u tovt        freez  in Central
in too rivate $tor,    bovortnt.
trzables.
Zntroatiw. ofa           C_cff of tlw
atermi lV  fw"           proeeit. of. lot.wtey
'oloowit reowwenien   onitwow  rsatiuo n fa O
vw_   ~  to "tome        Pat Itc setow fo 
of 0,000 ace t rl    rat (am
moire an aUitiens
3.000S altits" prsemet
Prbosrth oI f    aenS uit   tory prore
Ptah Ito .atewd mloto      In Iwwmlinent  tao
remslevn prmegra to thi   ostien ptwm fwr
taret od to.m0   loee    prora
i  nsludtlnu  aSI%. pti
utlit I0$$ uath bdl
s___.



-  L! -
~~~~~~111 ii  II
..jtiII . 



_ 6, _                           *Mact:x of Action.s
Page 5 of 9
cr WI                ~~~~ACTIO  *ArnE                           AYU   to U ME    T
MOjo? e tiof  of the    Establishd CORSAP and        Adeot en action plan.       itl_wntation of priwatitotion
Iits of stot*            ew@w   it with resD"o       satisfactory to IDA. to      vlan incttiIVw: Caltion of
.nterwist sector.        ibitity for both  negino   privatize CUONP               privatization of an   iti.ot
u  pwivetialng "out 350   ensrprbie                      5 2  State   Rme  enterrise;
stat  terprvse.              _       gn e   tis).       devOlusiO", liquidation or
ouick sates of state                                                               m    tie  no       r  O5
oternri"s to redue                                                                 t * ;  w1 f" Str_
the strcturat deficit    stuy* cwpeted on                                         taken encrttS St   towrd te
of the palic sector.     privatization strategy.                                  proWt tioA of 30 aditiwil
to encourage privete                                                              enterprise feor privatiution
sctor P r"icipatiors                                                               (  , 
ame to gterate
Strategy for divestiture
is worked out. W
Clarify snd garate        canies he alred*
private property rigts   been returned to preVio
to rene  INertainty    oawrs. tiqideted or
aW foster private         privatized, ractuding one
invostmnt ai growth.    Large grOO of
aericultural
entewris  *-Ntotl* )



- 69 -                        Matrix of Actions
Page 6 of 9
tSdSS lAl OsJEcTlviS                      ACT01 ADCE,                         ACTIONS tO U AOTID
,__________________  fF~t    IA7IONS  31'1 moo10 PEIIIIATIOM       3 1 "me!S 1!99
Inacrase ad mintain      Tax reform gaosurs were
t*a rv~' to onure        inoteted, iretling
objectiv  of             ra*tien in the nmer
stgiltil&itJo  aid non-    of brecit ts in persona
tnft.tialry finenc* of   inewe tsx. wV
dmiA-tterml govrlwnt    regtion of top rates
program.                 for persawI aid
coporate incoe  taxes.
Withholding provisisn      Rlneval of icm  tax        betisfctwy progress
were iwrowd, VW new      *xseptis, and aeprel of  in imptamntiid the
preswut;ve int%ies were   a progrn to ohs" out        aetion pt1w to  ~
irtro"ed for both of    indieect tea ea0tiuw          out ildirest ta
abov  ta".                intudWir4 i1rt tao_ atiOi.
eati   g         i
The Ga@rarl Volvo Tax
bose wa expended a*
the rate increaed to 15
percent.
Aftiniistrati iety granted
ta exemptions were
*liainated.
SiWtlify VW streithan   Adeption of e plon,        initiation of on ction          ltation of
tax dinistration       I.tisfactory to IDA, to   plan, satisfastory to I0DA,   m_sne  to ot _it~
improve tax              to ijpoe ta                  ta  ainiotrttion
adsinistretfon with       ainistratien with           islutdie:
aephasis  ion GM aid      e owif is *"*"is on WI      (a) fAt opeaIon of
tncm  Tax Collection.   aW Ino  tam  eel etllo etew    wlit fw tam
(|"d ltrs Lun l            ta_vet:
Prepration of a pilOt   figult=).                     (b) isawas  of
project to reister NW                                 desroso on auwiei
cotl et tams  frn tlr                                    lying to deloWi
tax pews.                                             pos -  -.
.e) relotein of
GlAtin Paste
idieste  ini the
action pLon ad
(d inAtiation of
ppser  on WAuaatid
amnngionet "ontrot,
aarpwiaad ta,xyor
iduwifflcetion $"to%
ad treainig pow_
faw Internal Rqewa
tod         11t pww
fin'"  tcl3



Annex D
_ 70 -                           1at:ix of Actions
Page 7 of 9
IA_L m
jstsSS AID CUJECTII                       ACTIOIS ADPE                       ACtIOND_ TO~ a MMPTE
___________________     REfOSF NEGOIATIOSS       MEBono M        M P AIOS     Ufa" MM   I
,1oo  the oltocation    Established diposit                                    Adeption of -
of *irisJt POreoues    interest retos at 12                                    inutet r, t oti, y
by ratiwalaiinl          percent VW lefiiw                                     dieh eprolimses
f"eiatiW an baning   rates at 18 percent rd                                    fate  to carket
activities and by        tied both to eollar.                                  rates, by setting M
tAthefing tns rwtn                                                             a Ww for tloin
ants of wanetary         Introwed a wthlY                                      rats ad freeiwn  the
controt                  depit rate for tnw-                                   dePosit interest
indexed d0spoftS.                                     rates.
lwrow the off iciCey    Aa4sly eWprovda           Adptiin of regulatius.       Preoration of
of fiuauial              bill for setting upa     satisfactory to IDA, for     trasitory emitivw
interesaiation through    Strintenooncv.          the iaplmsioatin of the    to establish
the ovetom t of 0                                 SSrintelcy ltw.             ncsar         ntiel
profit oriented.                                  AO intment of a              re etlatsif.
private sector btsed                              s.rintendent ai stwt-te
fifemiat system.                                  of Supsrinteedsndy
activities (l3u
Pres-taigt  caitia)
Adption of an action
proeran  "titfactory to
IDA, fer te rstrwtswing
of state-oa, b        1", cang   Carrying ot of
with ceation of Centrat    finanial swto
SMM s.*sidtes ad             reforn liwijding.
dfwco st espt for            (a) l1qudldtiwi or
gioture NW Si                mew  of sueo
ant1rwou (Bard               lftwI.1lbrle with
P - tign  ctfow}.           IN         IwearA      de
lndotrie y Ciercio;
(3) dissoltion of
PreWat1on of ter  of         Corpwocion
refwave for dswlpte          finwierem d
aid iapisttr the Irnm        Utee    (fc Io
L  fhr Uw*tn  ad            (C) dmontrati on
Pfrtwial Imttutluu          ciftet stq# t_rd
ditch Idntiffes a to_e, a   te rttwtwifr of
technical asfostaiw          SauceU arewin  de
firamine suomr.   ad        lidAtrie   y Cmseoe,
tiontable.                  Sllce Sacrat do
.eerele, ad Sm
Peolar ledfri  to
ofeod plau;
.d) Submision to the
Matiami Assly of
a bill. etisfactory
to IDA, on B"In
d firancial
lmtitutin   VW
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 G;;;We 1     tb
..                                                              I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t=o   to stut-up
tmtituttu  (a
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t_1t =



-7?1 -                            .1crox   f Ac: .ons
am eB                               Page 8 of 9
IWJfS meO OSJlI CtYS                       AtCTSO NSPtTO CtS tO SE ADP
SnP03! NEGOTIATIONS     SftEllt WVN "ESENTATON         UPOlil5 NaICH 992
ra       tt wtrad Oeregulation                                                  Coroolidte th  l
diversificatlo of       oeee onm izpot VWd                                      *aor_ts to ewur
tr_tn by ineres ing   export trede to tnl                                        pes    O  of S iWS*
privat* sector            prive. sector.                                         g     ernt
prptionl in tre.                                                                 inttrtontlin it
torsign trad.
After the detution       Allow futl fOreign eaCilng   Achiee full currnt
of the Corous, foreign   retention for eaporters       accout
eacheng  elloe tian      uaaWr an OftS :t Promotion    convertibility of the
mcnanim  were            DOcree.                       cordabe.
significently
iberl i tzed.
*li j-eting ministerial
an Centrat Sen
ponits  or d oportors,
aa giving de-fato
full aess to foreion
e'hange to exoters
(except cotton VW
coffe tooaprtere).
noe to a me iai fore, jegt I anon i the             Loewing ninal  eotection   Lowering of neist
trwooerren: aE  lowr    dieprsion 4w avrae          in trade ser to a range    protection in tw,
inet protection           Tbesie  triff rates.      of lat-am thrhp* a           tram enter, to a
strctwe.                                            cinetien of riati1           r ae of 1ofI4OI
Itiinstion of            In the tlwes of ta ,ffs*     threh* a ctintfon
selective coewitien       C, wi st:  tea; si           of reeat:ie  In
tea on a  Asr of          aiwtsnt of a targt           ltove  of trifft,
ioerts.                   tariff ruWV  of 1D"-2OS ud   SC  wi st   te
@tilnetion of UCT asd        (I      raofls
Conclusion of a free      sta  ta  on iorts &y te    .i.U.).
trade agret with          eu of 1993;  i eroal
Mexico to bIDm fully    of arragmnta for
uWrtiool by 19,6.         automtic ristration for
i"*t  wi orts (C
Pratatio  eoasition.
Dewlop action plan to        Satisfactoy progrea
prvde fr  trade stat.,   In te ieplnmttiWt
I.e., e. aien of tariffs    of th  actin plan
ws  Iedirmet tam, for        for giving fr  trab
exporter.                    status to e   rtrs.
esiign a prico.beaad
nchansii  with variable       Saeuit of id"t
levie  fr pige, Yellow       qiea  on rice,
corn as dft mile (I          Vellow corn w i COite
Proumntatian caditian) *     miae for a price
boomd sumcaii with
wettable levies,
satisfetory to IA,
md elimination of
remaining
mtriaipson feod
grin ltwto (IS*L
____________________  ___________                             'Nh   odto



AnOex D
-72 -                       !Iat?lx of AC:ions
Page 9 of 9
#lawS An ONJECTIVUs                      ACTIONS APTED                       AClTOS To gg QDTU
_SOEUE NEfOTtATIMON   ;EPONR  SO  PSIENATAtOU        SEFON  NCW 1992
CAfa  Wm cOtU5UV        Elidinwtin of   t                                     Abogtion of the
minimize static and     detie price eintrols                                  lel fr_m act
*~ic wetlf"e lo"*&   Ot  than thos of                                         psitting price
oscasiSew   pervsitve  p"ic ueitili,i                                        cantpols, et for
stte intervention       the Ifsat irotrio                                    nwtural mempoliss.
s*nvt of trsitery
price settin sgaps.
fo sel t eted prots
in govon"MMlnd
st*re*.
Prgwa on action
plun. satisfacy to
IDA. to I     price
eantrols of tCM
fiscal imstrises sW
to oofoualata as
tsI esterilog It to
w11~~ 30.
abropt:isn of legal
eupert eanapaLise for
sallowin private sector
access to export
gliae|tifwn of brpliO  to
entry to natra  amwam
regulations fras msea
nttrpriOO5 tO the Kinistry
of Ec. n.                    3epin,tasi.n Of tce
Ppare gem of Vetere=    stu*'o fiuifigon a
for sties a   tot           reptatory frapck
uwaltorwy I resck of        for "a mnwmwt of
naturalressaewe.              atral raoasjm.
ltimiatim of  oawot         gisstis onS
prig"s for b sftim.         t-   in stu bt
mlAA  to bgin of feing      basli Veind.
service1 (Starap. bl In
E.                                       le~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipanor do )s sed to PMs   Presawt a Poere or 
factitltes Ito privaet      priwatisfuo INAA
.mttrpre rs.                reita  Wi imle"s
euslots      tiut at
(lGat akofts
wi    ll .e "id to
privet, parties or to
lrerfs by brib
IM: - tOo
.'miMiw will be
divte te    the WV
of 192. Prsen 4"
wtian pltn to
rsfin, t"   future
rolt of NMAS.



-73 -
ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
1UCARAG-UA- Economic, RecovEry Crdi
Suiol.entarv Credt Data Sheet
SeetiQn S. Timetable of Rev Evofts
(a)  Time taken by the Country to prepare project:  7 motthu
(b)  Project prepared by:  Ministries of Economy, Finance, and the Cantral
8a-k
(c) First Presentation to the Banks January 1991
(d) Departure of Appraisal Missions June 1991
(a) Completion of Negotiations: July 1991
(t) Planned date for Effectivenests September 1991
Section 11: S*cial DAnk In1i"emntAti2n Actigns
None
Se_tion UI: S92ci&l _onditions:
Release of the scond tranche would be contingent on satisfactory
progress in the implementation of the  lovernent *structural adjustment
program, including the maintenance of a supportive macroeconomic framework,
and fulfilling the following conditionas
(i)      Adoption of (a) FY92 budget with reduced Central
Government non-inteicet current expenditures less than
US$325 million equivalent, and (b) agreement on
implementLng the recommendations of the joint Government-
IDA public expenditure revLew,
(ii)      implementation of measures to strengthen tax
administration, including (a) full operation of unit for
large taxpayers (b) issuing of decrees on sanctions
applying to delayed payment and non-compliance; and (c)
initiating programs on automated management control
system, computerized taxpayer identification system, and
training programs for Internal Revenue and Customs
personnel.



- 74 -
page 2 of 2
(LiL)    xmplementation of privatization of CORNAP state-owned
companies through (a) completion of privatization of
additional 25 state-owned companies; (b) finalization of
devolution. liquidation. or assignation of another S0
companies; and (c) initiation of concrete steps toward
the propasation of an additional 30 companies for
privatisation.
(Lv)      Carrying out of financial sector reforms including, (a)
liquidation or merger of 3anco thmobiliario with Banco
Nicaraglense de Industria y cmezrcio, (b) dissolution of
Corporacifn Financiera de Nicaragua (CORFtN), (c)
initiation of steps toward th restructuring of Banco
Nicaragfienae de Industria y ComercLo 8aneo Nacional do
D-earrollo. and Banco Popular accordlng to agreed action
plan, (d) submission to the National Assembly of a draft
law, satLsfactory to IDA. on 3ankilnq and FinancLal
Institutions, and (e) issuance of at least two licenses
to private banks.
(v)       The protectLon resulting from combined tariffs and taxes
that apply to imports ln Nlcaragua will be reduced to a
minimum of 10 percent and a maximum of 40 percent. except
with respect to medicines, books and newsprLnt whlih may
be exempt from such tarlffs and taxes or subject to
tariffs and taxes at a combined rate lower than the
minimu  rate refrred to above.
(vl)      Replacemnt of import quotas on rice, ye llow corn and
white maize for a price base mechanlsm with variable
levies, satisfactory to IDA, and elimination of romainlng
quantitative restrlctLons on food grain itports.
V.



Aanex F
- 75                                       Page 1. O  2
8:A?ss or aam  GiOu, OPUA?:0II5 IN HICAM
. .....       .................. .   ..
(As of Maveb 31, 1991)
Amaaa: In US$ uillUso
(lse e. 000t1o4)
Cee4ttl           fiscal
Loa" No.           Tr    $        rvower rw e                                  lank         I          th dsbuisod
,,,,,,,,,........ .......  .......... .... ...... _. ..................  ........... ........................   ,.  .--------    ........    ....... ..........___
28 loase and 5 credits fully disbureed                                        229.41        39.74
Ttoal                                                                    229.61        5974
of wieWb bas bees repaid                                                  72.50         a."
_   _---     ........     ......
Toal am bald by    sad & D4                                              aS7.U t       $.06
Auest "od                 s   5.62
Of tUb bas beea repaid?   5.62
Total   dtbu.ed                                                             0.000.00                     0.00
----------------                  ............... _ ...______
W*e   VC391 (a1-..o0)
,or a, 155



Annex F
Pa3e 2 o: 2
5. Sitesst at        *ste sts
As ot MAvCC 31, 1991
(US$ gUsa)
...... . ........._._.-.-........................... ...... --_--_--.__    ........................... _-...__.._  _
fis.c                                                            -.--04wt68    pw*a-....
Tear             ObTgov                     ypa of Satssta        La"        zq"ty        Total
,----- -                  . _.X. ..............._.......    _ ._.._._,.__... -__--       -----
1941      TetSLls Fabt acato de
Vicstata  , S.A. (TAZ=)    TeZsIs Wl.                      1.00        1.07        2.07
1976        Icsts,cus, Suatr  stae.
Limited (ISI.)                   Sags: Wll                 6.50        0.00        6.50
1976      Po," dl SoL                        otl                      0.70       0.20         0.90
eefl..         0 .  .... .......
Total giSas    wLtRto                                      4.20        1.2         9*.47
Less. eanaelA:tS., teM    ttas.
wspayswts ad .ale*                                      6.20        1.27       9.47
-*a~a... . *..  .--..
Toual cowmL.ae  a"s  bal  by 210                           0.00        0.00        0.00
.._.....--__..........- . .....                    --._..__ .....-.
WC Zw._est. sUZCOs91
Ja. 1X, 1951



