Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 25887
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
NICARAGUA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit No. 2302-NI)
and
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit No. 2631-Ni)
May 8, 2003
Country Evaluation and Regional Relations Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Cur,-ency Unit = C6rdoba Oro
1994   US$1.00   =   6.72                    1998     US$1.00   =   C$10.58
1995   US$1.00   =   7.55                    1999     US$1.00   =   C$11.81
1996   US$1.00   =   8.44                    2000     US$1.00   =   C$12.68
1997   US$1.00   =   9.45                    2001     US$1.00   =   C$13.37
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BANADES        Banco Nacional de Desarrollo      INAA           Nicaraguan Institute for Water
BANIC          Banco Nicaragulense de                           and Sewerage
Industria y Comercio              INE            Nicaraguan Energy Institute
BIN            Banco Inmobiliario                INIFOM         Instituto Nicaragiuense de
BP             Banco Popular                                    Fomento Municipal
COBANICA       Junta liquidadora de activos de   INSS           Instituto Nicaraguense del
BANADES                                          Seguro Social
CORF]N         Corporaci6n Financiera de         LUBNICA        Lubricantes de Nicaragua
Nicaragua                         MARENA         Ministry of Environment and
CORNAP         Corporaciones Nacionales del                     Natural Resources
Sector Publico                    MCT            Ministry of Construction and
ENEL           Empresa Nicaragiense de                          Transportation
Electricidad                      MEDC           Ministry of Education,
ENIGAS         Ernpresa Nicaragilense de Gas                    Sports and Culture
ENITEI,        Telecommunications                MEDE           Ministry of Economy and
Enterprise (Empresa                              Development
Nicaragiaense de                  MIFIN          Ministry of Finance
Telecomunicaciones)               NFPS           Non-financial public sector
ERC            Economic Recovery Credit          OED            Operations Evaluation
ESAF           Enhanced Structural                              Department
Adjustment Facility               PCR            Project Completion Report
GDP            Gross Domestic Product            PETRONIC       State Petroleum Company
ICR            Implementation Completion                        (Empresa Nicaragaense del
Report                                           Petr6leoq)
IDA            International Development         PPAR           Project Performance
Association                                      Assessment Report
IDB            Inter-American Development        SBIF           Superintendencia Bancaria y
Bank                                             de Instituciones Financieras
IMF            International Monetary Fund       TELCOR         Teleconmnunications and
Postal Services Company
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Director-Geineral, Operations Evaluation                  Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department         Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Senior Manager, Country Evaluation and Regional Relations  Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Task Manag,er                                            NMr. Jorge Garcia-Garcia



The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA
GREGORY K INGRAM
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluaton
May 8, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO TEII EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on Nicaragua
Economic Recovery Credit (Credit No. 2302-NI) and Second Economic
Recovery Credit (Credit No. 2631-NI)
Attached is the Project Perforrnance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the above
credits to Nicaragua, made from 1991 to 1996. The main objectives of the two
operations supported stabilization, adjustment and structural reforms. They intended to
support the government's program to arrest the decline of GDP, to revive growth in a
sustainable and equitable manner, and to achieve lasting price stability. Besides
supporting the macroeconomic objectives, the Second Economic Recovery Credit aimed
at helping the county adjust to lower levels of foreign aid and establishing conditions to
revive the private sector.
The adjustment credits succeeded in achieving their objectives, especially the
First Economic Recovery Credit, but it took beyond the implementation period to see
their impact on the economy. The First Economic Recovery Credit met all the conditions
and succeeded in bringing inflation down, from about 380 percent in 1991 to about 24
percent in 1992, and in arresting the decline in GDP. Its short term impact on output was
below the strong and fast response that the authorities and IDA had expected when they
agreed to the loan, but the higher growth rates since 1994 (above 4 percent) owe much to
the large structural reformns and initial stabilization effort that ERC-I supported. After the
political uncertainty about the direction of economic policy ended, investors and
producers have responded as expected, and GDP has grown every year since 1994.
The PPAR rates the outcome of the Economic Recovery Credit I as satisfactory,
higher than the marginally satisfactory of the ICR and the marginally unsatisfactory of
OED's evaluation summary. The PPAR rates the sustainability of the ECR I as likely,
higher than the uncertain of the evaluation summary, and institutional development
impact as substantial, higher than the negligible of the evaluation summary. Borrower
performance is rated satisfactory, as the evaluation summary. Bank performance is rated
satisfactory, higher than the evaluation summary.
The Second Economic Recovery Credit met part of its goals for structural reform.
The labor mobility program met its objective of reducing public sector employment,
which fell more than its target of 13,500 positions (about 8 percent of public sector
employment). The privatization program achieved most of its objectives, and the



Government divested 76 of the 89 enterprises that remained, but did not complete the
transfer of ownership for all, especially two important ones, PETRONIC (petroleum) and
TELCOR (telecommunications). The Government also began to improve the climate for
private sector development; it advanced in resolving property rights disputes by, among
others, reviewing more than 100,000 cases related to properties in the housing and rural
sectors, and solving the disputes in 82 percent of rural cases and 98 percent of housing
cases. The reform of the financial system fell short of plans, and the strategy for
zontaining the growth of state banks was partially executed; two state banks continued
*iominating the banking sector, and were exempted from complying with prudential
norms. On the positive side, the Government submitted to the Legislature a General
Banking Law that aimed at strengthening the regulatory powers of the Superintendencia
Bancaria y de Instituciones Financieras (SBIF).
The PPAR rates the outcome of the Economic Recovery Credit II as satisfactory,
higher than OED's evaluation summary, the sustainability as likely, higher than the
uncertain of the evaluation summnary, and institutional development impact as substantial,
higher than the evaluation summary. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, as the
evaluation summary. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, as the evaluation summary.
The main lessons derived are:
*  IDA must tone down its expectations of what reforms can achieve in a
short time. IDA identified correctly the nature of the risks of failure,
but it overestimated the response to the reforms supported by both
credits. IDA and the Borrower assumed unrealistically that
stabilization could be achieved in two years, and that an economic
recovery based on private sector growth would occur in parallel.
* An adjustment program that aims at private sector led growth should
focus from the beginning on developing and guaranteeing property
rights, which are critical to restoring confidence of private investors.
ERC-I did not focus on the property rights issue and the desired
response of the private sector did not materialize.
*  When the adjustment program requires deep economic changes,
problems that need long-run solutions must be tackled early, under a
global strategy whose rationale, constraints and benefits must be
understood and accepted prior to approval of the credit. IDA and the
Borrower should work to prepare civil society for the changes needed
and forthcoming, and whose benefits are not evident to the general
public at first.



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from expenence. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the BanKs lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analyfical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficianes. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared intemally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both ngor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratngs High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to nsk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact. The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
beKter definibon, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
beKter alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings. Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Perfotrmance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropnate supervision (including ensunng adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratngs: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings- Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatsfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings and Key Staff Responsible ...............................................v
Preface ....................................................... vii
1. Introduction ...............................................1
2. Objectives and Design ...............................................6
3. First Economic Recovery Credit (ERC-1) ................................................6
4. Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC-II) ..............................................  13
5. Lessons ..............................................                            17
Figure
1.     Annual Inflation and Per Capita GDP ...............................................1
Tables
1.1    Key Economic Indicators: 1990-1993 ...............................................3
2.1    Key Economic Indicators: 1994-1997 ...............................................4
3.1    Key Economic Indicators: 1998-2001 ..............................................5
4.1    Main Components of Economic Recovery Credits I and II ...............................................7
Annexes
A. Basic Data Sheet .19
B. Reform of the State .23
C.      Public Sector Expenditure Review .27
D. Financial Sector Reform .31
E.     Matrix of Policy Actions, Measures and Results Within the Two Economic Recovery
Credits Over the Period 1991-1996 .34
F.     Comments Received from the Government .41
This report was prepared by Georges Cahuzac (Consultant) who assessed the projects in January-
March 2002 and by Jorge Garcia-Garcia (Task Manager) who finished the report. Norma
Namnisato provided administrative support.






Principal Ratings
Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2302-NI)
ES*                PPAR
Outcome                                                   Mod. Unsat.         Satisfactory
Sustainability                                             Uncertain            Likely
Institutional Development Impact                           Negligible         Substantal
Bank Performance                                          Marg. Sat.          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                      Satisfactory        Satisfactory
* The Evaluation Sumnary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the
ICK
Key Staff Responsible
Project                      Task NanserILeader          Division Chief!      Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                       Baran Tuncer              Marco Voljc        Rainer Steckhan
Completon                        Ivan Rivera             Robert Lacey        Edilberto Segura



Principal Ratings
Second Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2631-NI)
ES                      PPAR
Outcome                                             Mod. Sat.                Satisfactory
Sustainability                                      Uncertain                  Likely
Inslitutional                                        Modest                  Substantial
Development Impact
13ank Performance                                   Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Borrower                                            Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Performance
* The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an mtermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the
inplementation Completion Report (ICR), a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                      Task Manager/Leader         Division Chlefi      Country Director
Sector. irector
Appraisal                       Ulrich Lachler           Robert Lacey         Edilberto Segura
Completion                    Violeta Rosenthal                               Donna Dowsett-
Coirolo



Vil
Preface
This is a Project Perfornance Assessment Report (PPAR) for Nicaragua
Economic Recovery Credits I and II. The projects supported economic stabilization and
economic reforms aimed at arresting the decline of GDP, reviving growth, achieving
price stability, establishing conditions for private sector development and helping
Nicaragua adjust to lower levels of foreign aid. The projects were financed through IDA
credit 2302-NI for US$110 million, approved on September 3, 1991 and closed on June
10, 1992; and IDA credit 2631-NI for US$60 million approved on May 27, 1994, and
closed on June 30, 1996.
The findings of this assessment report are based on a review of President's
Reports for the projects, legal documents, project files, related economic and sector work,
IMEF country reports, and discussions with Nicaraguan officials and the IMF and Bank
Group staff.
The draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower, and its commnents have been taken into
account and reproduced in Annex F of the report.






1.    Introduction
1.1   OED selected two credits (Economic Recovery I and II) to evaluate the Bank's
program of assistance for stabilization, adjustment and reform in Nicaragua, and to derive
lessons for future assistance to other countries. The two adjustment operations supported
economnic reforms during the period 1991-1996.
The Sandinista Legacy
1.2   For eleven years (1979-1990) the Sandinista regime sought to organize the
economy along socialist lines, while at the same time facing an armed struggle with
groups that opposed the regime. The Sandinistas had nationalized most privately-owned
firms and left a non-financial public sector that spent about 50 percent of GDP, of which
state-owned companies accounted for 29 percent of GDP. Regulations drowned what
remained of a private sector, and a land reform and an urban property redistribution
program left a complex property rights problem. Foreign trade was heavily regulated, and
state-trading companies did almost all the exporting and about half of import trade. By
1990 the basic institutions of a market economy were defunct and the economy was in
tatters: prices rose at about 48,000 percent (see graph below), exports and GDP per capita
were about 40 percent their level in the mid 1970s, the fiscal and current account deficits
reached 29 and 36 percent of GDP and the external debt was six times the GDP. For the
economy to revive, Nicaragua had to eliminate its macro-economic imbalances, reduce
the external debt and shift from a command to a market economy. On the political front,
Nicaragua had to build its democratic institutions.
Annual Inflation (percent) and Per Capita GDP (1995=100)
180                                                         100,000
170  "S                 ~~~~~~~~~47,703
170  ~\  ~hOWNa GDPI Ind"  361,0
160                               Inflai0o,
a140
130 
12~~~0
120 37                               24 8|@giiff 
110     12                                                4 10
100
90                                                          1
The Chamorro Administration: Reversing Sandinista Policies.
1.3   Violeta Chamorro, who took over the Presidency in April 1990, inherited a
devastated economy, a polarized society and a large and inefficient state sector. Her
administration tried to solve the problems inherited while making efforts to establish



2
peace and build a national consensus to liberalize the economy. To reduce inflation, in
May 1990 the Government introduced a second currency (the C6rdoba Oro, to be used as
a unit of account), pegged it to the US dollar, and tried to reduce the public sector deficit
by reducing the wage bill and increasing taxes and the prices of public sector services.
The measures failed to achieve their objectives that year, and economic decline and
hyperinflation continued as the Government accumulated arrears and financed its deficit
with money printed by the Central Bank.
1.4   The administration began to adjust the economy in 1991, under the umbrella of an
1MF monitoring program concerted with IDA and IDB. The program set targets for the
fiscal deficit and domestic credit expansion. Under the program the Government
restrained public expenditures (among others through a program of voluntary retirement
of public employees), increased tax collection and reduced the deficit to a level that
foreign financial assistance could cover (see Table 1.1). Also, the Government devalued
the C6rdoba Oro by 400 percent, and, after increasing wages for public sector employees,
il increased the prices of public services.
1.5   The Government also took steps to improve fiscal and financial management and
to set the basis for structural change. Specifically, it
o completed processing voluntary employment reductions in the public sector (see
Annex B);
* had, by the end of 1992, sold, liquidated or returned to their former owners 233 of
the 351 firms under CORNAP (Junta General de Corporaciones Nacionales del
Sector Ptblico), the State-owned holding company in charge of divesting of state-
enterprises (see Annex B);
* limited the role of state-owned trading companies, reduced import taxes and
eliminated quantitative restrictions;
* obtained from the National Assembly the approval of a bill to set up a
Superintendency for the financial sector, and submitted to Congress a banking and
financial institutions law;
* began to restructure the State-owned banks (see Annex D), a sensitive decision
that some in the Government questioned; it liquidated Banco Inmobiliario (BIN)
and closed the Corporaci6n Financiera de Nicaragua (CORFIN), a holding
company that controlled the state banks; it also authorized the operation of three
private banks, and adopted a mostly market-determined interest rate policy.
1.6   Political and constitutional crises hampered the adjustment and structural reforms
during the implementation of the two economic recovery credits. Disagreements between
the Sandinistas and the Government and within the governing party on whether to
liberalize the economy made it difficult to decide what to do and when. The conflict
slowed the restructuring of state banks because the Government and the Superintendency
refused to be responsible for the privatization of Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
(BANADES), as the Constitution and Banking laws had conflicting provisions on the
matter. Political controversy around property rights and the conflict between the
Govermnent and the National Assembly, caused by the Assembly's decision to reduce



3
the power of the Government to handle disputes over property rights, slowed down their
solution.
1.7    Even with political consensus, the country lacked the capacity to carry out the
changes required. The military conflict that preceded the Sandinistas' takeover of power
produced a brain drain that reduced the managerial capabilities of the Government, a loss
accentuated during the Sandinista administration. The Chamorro administration could
hardly execute its March 1991 stabilization and adjustment program as originally
planned. The technical assistance from donors and multilateral institutions could not
make up for the country's lack of experience and know-how needed to manage such a
program.
1.8    Private investors perceived the risk of doing business as high. The fragile political
situation, the weak rule of law, the scant respect for property rights, and the disagreement
over economic stabilization clouded the economic prospects. Such perceptions
contributed to the weak response of the economy to the economic policies of the
administration. Moreover, in 1992 and 1993 the political consensus within the governing
party broke down, preventing the National Assembly from approving some of the
legislation that supported the Government's stabilization and adjustment program. Rural
violence spread, and strikes and demonstrations against restrictive economic policies
helped to arrest attempts to introduce fiscal discipline and bring about structural change.
1.9    Despite the difficulties of imposing economic discipline and the risks perceived
by the private sector, the economy improved slowly. By the end of 1993 inflation fell to
20 percent but, contrary to the expectations held when the stabilization program started,
GDP stagnated, unemployment rose and the current account deficit stayed high, at some
50 percent of GDP (see Table 1.1). The outstanding external debt remained at about 600
percent of GDP. GDP per capita fell, and an IDA Poverty Profile found that in 1993 more
than 50 percent of the population lived in poverty. After three years in government, the
Chamorro administration realized that it had to reduce government expenditure further,
privatize state-owned companies and rely on the private sector to ignite growth and
stabilize the economy.
Table 1.1: Key Economic Indicators: 1990-1993
1990      1991       1992      1993
GDP Growth (percent)                 -0.1       -0.2      +0.4       -0.4
Inflation (percent)                  7,485     2495        24         20
Unemployment rate (percent)           7.6       11.5      14.4       17.8
Non-financial public sector (NFPS) balance  -33.2  7.7    -8.4       -8.8
before grants (percent of GDP)
NFPS Revenue (percent of GDP)         18.3      25.0      28.6       29.6
NFPS Expenditures (percent of GDP)    51.5      32.7      37.1       38.3
Current Account Balance (percent of GDP)  -36   -49        -59        -48
External Debt (percent of GDP)        685       592        583       608



4
1.10 The administration sped changes in 1994, with reforms in the state, in the
financial sector and, more profoundly, in the conditions of doing business by private
sector agents. Most property disputes were reviewed, but the National Assembly added to
the climate of uncertainty after approving a law that gave security of possession to the
beneficiaries of agrarian and housing reforms during the Sandinista regime. The reforms
of the state and the financial sector advanced: tax and fiscal regulations were made more
transparent, the ceiling and floor on import duties and surcharges was reduced, and a new
Labor Code gave employers more flexibility to hire and dismiss employees. Central
government spending fell, but higher spending in the rest of the public sector still resulted
in high public sector deficits (9 to 15 percent of GDP) and high levels of spending, 41 to
48 percent of GDP. The support of donors spared the government the need to finance the
deficit with central bank credit. That support allowed Nicaragua to write off about 50
percent of its official debt, and to buy back part of its commercial debt; as a result,
outstanding debt fell from 600 percent of GDP in 1994 to about 300 percent of GDP in
1997; the debt deals helped reduce the current account deficits by some 20 points of
GDP, to 30 percent of GDP (see Table 2.1).
Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators: 1994-1997
1994      1995     1996      1997
Real GDP growth (percent)       +3.3      +4.3     +4.8      +5.1
Inflation (percent)             +7.8     +10.9    +11.6      +9.2
Unemployment rate (percent)     17.1      16.9     16.0       14.3
NFPS Balance (percent of GDP)   -13.8    -12.5    -15 4       -9.2
NFPS Revenue (percent of GDP)   29.6      29.3     31.6      34.4
NFPS Expenditure (percent of GDP)  44 90  40 6     47.5      43.9
Current Account Balance (percent of  -51.5  -36 1  -31.2     -30.3
GDP)
Extemal Debt (percent of GDP)   638       543      309       297
Source: Central Bank of Nicaragua, World Bank and IMF.
1.1 1  The policies carried out in 1994-97 improved economic conditions and the
country's prospects (see Table 2.1). Total and per capita GDP grew, while unemployment
declined. Inflation fell to about 10 percent per year, and the devaluation of the C6rdoba
(from 6 to 9 C6rdobas per US dollar) led to a real depreciation and higher incentives for
exporters. Tax incentives for exporters also helped to trigger the large increase in exports
observed over the period. Except for govermment services, every sector began to recover.
Notable in the recovery was manufacturing, which benefited from the free trade zones,
prograrns for small and medium size companies, and a progressive flow of foreign
investments. Exports of goods increased from 26 to 46 percent of GDP, and imports rose
from 52 to 72 percent of GDP. Although the trade deficit remained high, 26 percent of



5
GDP, the large reduction in external debt helped reduce the deficit in current account
from 52 to 30 percent of GDP. Despite the gains, Nicaragua still has much to do to
improve the economic well being of its population. By 1997 per capita income was five
percent higher than in 1990, but poverty and extreme poverty remained high, at about 50
and 25 percent of the population. After Haiti, Nicaragua has the lowest income per capita
in Latin America, and its social indicators rank among the worst in the region.
1.12 Economic performance improved in 1998-2000, as the economy grew faster and
inflation and unemployment continued falling (see Table 3.1). Hurricane Mitch caused
large economic losses in 1998, but, with Nicaraguans' own resources and support of the
donor community, investment increased sharply and the economy recovered quickly in
1999. The large transfers received permitted the Government to finance higher levels of
investment and expenditure, but the Government kept its high level of expenditure in
2000 even after the assistance declined; the large expenditure also reflected large outlays
related to municipal elections at the end of 2000. Triggered in part by wage increases, the
cost of bank resolutions, and a large increase in capital outlays, government expenditure
increased in 2001, increasing the combined public sector deficit after grants to about 14
percent of GDP. As a result, the rate of growth fell to about 3.3 percent and 1.0 percent in
2001 and 2002. After its inauguration in January 2002 the administration of President
Bolafios reduced expenditures and increased taxes, cutting the deficit after grants to 9.2
percent of GDP. The administration intends to continue the fiscal adjustment in 2003-05
and, supported by an IMF poverty reduction growth facility program approved in
December 2002, it expects to reach in 2005 a combined public sector deficit after grants
of 3.3 percent of GDP.
Table 3.1: Key Economic Indicators: 1998-2001
1998    1999    2000  2001    2002
prel
Real GDP growth (percent)            4.1     7.4     5.9    3.3     1.0
Inflation (percent)                   13     11.2     7.4   7.4    6.0
Unemployment rate (percent)          13.2    10.7    9 9    10.5.   n.a.
NFPS balance before grants (percent of GDP)  -4.1  -14.1  -13.8  -19.0  -16.5
NFPS revenue (percent of GDP)        36 9    35.7    32.5   30.8.  n.a.
NFPS expenditure (percent of GDP)    41.1    49 7    46.4   49.8   n.a.
Curent account balance (percent of GDP)  -37.1  -47.9  -38.3  -38.1  -28.0
External debt (percent of GDP)       296     289     278    250    250
Source Central Bank of Nicaragua; World Bank and IMF.
1.13  Over the past 12 years, new economic policies helped to stop economic decline
and to lay the basis for faster growth. The political uncertainty of the early nineties
prevented a quick response of the economy to the changes in economic policy introduced
at the time, but as the uncertainty declined and the direction of economic policy was
maintained, the economy started growing faster, and poverty and unemployment
declined. The pace of growth faltered in 2001 and 2002, mainly as a result of economic



6
policies, but the administration of President Bolafnos expects that better governance and
sound fiscal and financial policies will help to accelerate growth. If the administration
succeeds, the beneficial impact of the changes supported by ERCI and ERCII will stand.
2.    Objectives and Design
2.1   The two operations, part of IDA's assistance strategy, were complementary and
supported stabilization, adjustment and structural reforms; they aimed at:
(i) Arresting the decline of GDP;
(ii) Reviving growth in a sustainable and equitable manner, and
(iii) Achieve lasting price stability.
2.2   The program focused on:
(i) Economic management: helping the Government, in coordination with the IMF,
to address key fiscal and monetary policy issues;
(ii) Reform of the State: reducing public sector employment, privatizing government
companies, and improving the management and institutional capacity of the
public sector;
(iii) Financial sector reform: restructuring and closing state-banks, allowing private
banks to operate, and establishing a system of supervision and prudential
regulation; and
(iv) Private sector development: encouraging the Government to guarantee property
rights, to conduct economic policy by rules rather than by discretion of the
authorities, and to liberalize the trade regime and labor legislation.
2.3   Both credits had a broad agenda and a complex conditionality for the institutional
capacity of the country. Table 4.1 shows the main groups of reforms supported by each
credit. From 1994, IDA realized that the Government had to restore the confidence of the
private sector for the country to achieve high growth rates, and to do so required it to
focus its support on reorienting the role of the State, reducing barriers to private initiative,
improving access to domestic financial institutions, and promoting a stable legal
framework.
3.    First Economic Recovery Credit (ERC-I)
3.1   The political, economic and social crisis prompted IDA, with the cooperation of
IDB, to start preparing in January 1991 a long-term assistance strategy. By April 1991,
IDA considered Nicaragua eligible for IDA credit, and by May 1991 donors and
Nicaragua agreed on clearing Nicaragua's arrears to multilateral development banks.
With the agreement in hand, the IMF approved in September 1991 a stand-by credit of
US$55.7 million, to be disbursed over 18 months. After approval of the stand-by, IDA
granted an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC-I) for US$110 million. The ERC-I



7
(September 1991-June 1992) was designed as a first step in support of a longer term
structural adjustment program aimed at moving the economy from a command economy
to a market based one. The financial package included US$132.5 million from IDB, a
US$114 million co-financing from the Governments of Japan ($74 million), Germany
($35 million) and Switzerland ($5 million), and US$101 million equivalent from other
bilateral donor agencies. In 1990 the U.S. Govermnent had pledged more than US$500
million, of which it had already disbursed some US$300 million by September 1991.
3.2       Objectives. ERC-I aimed to support the Government's effort in arresting the
ongoing decline in the economy, achieving price stability and reviving economic growth
on a sustained basis. The credit supported four areas of the Government's economic
program, detailed in the Letter of Development Policy. They were:
Table 4.1: Main Components of Economic Recovery Credits I and II
ERC-1                                  ERC-IH
I. Economic Management
Economic Policy Formulation             (i) Create a stable macroeconomic       Maintain supportive macro-economic
environment, reducing Central          framework: inflation to reach 10% in 1994
Govemnment non-mterest current          and single digit by 1996; public savings to
expenditures to less than US$325 million,  increase by 2.3% of GDP in 1994, and
and NFPS deficit to 3% of GDP, by 1992.  1 5% of GDP in 1995 and 1996.
(ii) Implement recommendations of Joint
Govemnrent/ADA public expenditure
review.
Fiscal Policy                           (I) Increase tax revenues removing      Maintain appropriate policy.
income tax exemption, approving and
satisfactonly implemnenting a program to
phase out indirect tax exemptions
including import tax
(ii) Initiation of an acton plan to improve
tax administrauon with specific emphasis
on mcome tax collection.
Monetary Policy                         (I) Maintain tight credit policy and
positve real interest rates.
(ii) Eventual liberalization of interest
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __   rates.  _
Exchange rate policy                    Achieve full convertibility of C6rdoba to  Accumulation of intemational reserves to
create competitiveness in the trade sector.  reach over 3 months of imnport by 1996.
II. Reform of the State
Labor Mobility Program                  (i) Demobilze military forces and militias  Design an implement an action plan in
and retire military officers (5,000).   order to reduce employment by 13,500
positions dunng 1994-1996.
(ii) Stop hiring new employees in Central
Government
(iii) Introduce and complete voluntary
emnployment reconversion program
I__ (target: 10,000 employees)



8
ERC-I                                ERC-II
Privatization                         Adopt and implement actlon plan to   (i) Complete all the admnistrative steps
divest of or complete preparation for  needed for liquidation or transfer of
divestiture of at least 90% of the   ownership of the divested CORNAP and
enterpnses still under CORNAP         MCT enterpnses, and two enterpnses in
admtnistration, by the end of 1993.  the energy sector (ENIGAS and
LUBNICA)
(n) Liquidate or bring to the point of sale
some of PETRONIC's operabons,
especially the distnbution of gasoline
Satisfactory implementation of TELCOR
privatization plan, and bringing to the
point of sale a 40 percent share of
TELCOR's telecommunicabons
operations (ENITEL).
Public Sector Reform                  (i) Start a study on public enterpnse  Preparation and satisfactory
rationalization.                     implementation of a three year Public
Sector Reform Program and Acton Plan,
in line with the Governments' Policy
Statement, including the restructuring of
______                                                                      at least two major public institutions
(ii) Strengthen tax administration
through: operaton of unit for large tax
payers; issuance of decrees on sanctions
applying to delayed payers and non-
compliance; initiation of program on
automated management control for
personnel of Customs and Internal
Revenue.
m. Financial Sector Reform
Improve Elanidng Sector               (i) Adoption of regulation for the    (i) bIplement agreed action plan to
Discipline                            implerentation of the Law on          modify or introduce new prudential norms
Superintendency of Bank and start     and to improve the functioning of the
operations of the Superintendency     Supenntendency.
(ii) Submission of a bill to the National  (ii) Enact decree, acton plan, or draft law
Assembly on Banking and Financial    to increase penalties for non-compliance.
Institutions.
Improve financial information                                               (X) Design and implement a debtor
and accounting systems                                                      management system.
(ii) Implement a new chart of accounts.
Reform the state-owned banks          Adoption of an action program for their  Maintamn policy of: (i) not recapitalizmng
restructuring, carrying out the       state banks through new public sector
funds or revaluation of non-financial
(i) liquidaton or merger of BIN with  assets,
BANIC;
(ii) ensuring compliance with prudential
(ii) dissolution of CORFIN; restructunng  notms and banlong regulations;
of BANIC, BANADES and BP.
(iii) no pre-assigning of rediscounts from
the Central Bank for specific activities.
Develop a private sector based        Authonze the operation of three private
financial system                      conmercial banks.



9
ERC-I                                   ERC-II
IV. Private Sector Development
Improve guarantees of property                                                  (i) Establish a program to review
rights                                                                           compliance with current adninistrative
procedures to resolve conflicts over
property
(ii) Satisfactory imiplementation of the
verification process.
(m) Commnission and complete study to
analyze financial mechanisms that
increase attractiveness of compensation
bonds, and implement recon7mendations
in a satisfactory manner.
Reduce uncertainty by eliminating                                                Issue presidential decree establishing a
discretionality in the management                                                policy disclosure for tax and fiscal
of economic policy                                                               measures, abrogating the powers of
Ministries and Agencies to change rules
and to create state-owned enterprises, and
move these powers to the Office of the
President
Deregulate and reform                    (i) Issue trade deregulation decree    (i) Reduce nominal protection rate to
domestic and foreign trade               opening exports and imports rade to the  10°/337% except for fiscal industries.
policy, and increase private             private sector.
sector participation in foreign          (ii) Liberalize foreign exchange allocation  (ii) Present a time-bound tariffreduction
trade                                    mechanism, achieving full convertibility.
(in) Complete preparation of action-plan
(llt) Reduce nominal tanff protection to a  to replace existtng export promotion
range of 10-40%                         mechanism by a duty draw back system.
(iv) Eliminate selective consumption tax
and stamp tax on imports by the end of
1993.
(v) Design a price based mechanism to
replace import quotas, and eliminate
quantitative restrictions on food-grain
imports.
(vi) Eliminate most domestic pnce
controls.
Promote greater labor                                                            Comply with agreement on labor policy as
productivity                                                                     stated by Govemment The Labor Code
will give priority to free contracting and
will guarantee the rescission, suspension
or termnation of contracts, despite the
existence of collective bargaining
agreements.
* Macroeconomic policies. The Government intended to carry out: (i) a fiscal
policy that would maintain the proper balance between revenues and expenditures
and would avoid using Central Bank financing; (ii) a monetary policy that would
encourage financial resource mobilization and improve the efficiency of resource



10
allocation; and (iii) an exchange rate policy that would encourage the
diversification of exports and help to maintain the competitiveness and
profitability of the tradable sector.
*   Public sector. The Govermment committed itself to: (i) reduce non-interest
current expenditure to US$338 million and US$315 million in FY91 and FY92,
and reduce it by nine percent in FY93; (ii) reduce public sector employment by
10,000 in FY92;
(iii) divest or prepare for privatization 90 percent or more of state-owned
enterprises by the end of 1993; (iv) reform the customs and revenue services to
increase revenues and improve the efficiency of the tax system.
* Financial sector. The Government intended to reduce the role of the public sector
in financial intermediation activities, and to create the conditions for more
participation by the private sector. Restructuring the state-owned banks (through
closure and privatization) constituted the cornerstone of the program. Other
actions and plans complemented the program. The Government decided to create
a Superintendency of Banks, announced its intention to free deposit rates and
abolish substantive controls on lending rates, and committed to draft and present
to the National Assembly a Law of Banldng and Financial Institutions.
* Incentives for private sector development. The strategy aimed at reducing the size
of the state and eliminating obstacles to the functioning of internal and external
markets. The Government expected that restraining government expenditure and
closing and selling state-owned companies would produce a smaller government.
It planned to improve the working of markets by: (i) abolishing state trading
monopolies and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports; (ii) reducing the
level and dispersion of import duties; (iii) eliminating support prices for
agricultural products; (iv) abrogating the legal framework for price controls; (v)
eliminating barriers to entry by the private sector into sugar production, banana
for export and slaughter houses for exports; and (vi) lifting restrictions on foreign
exchange trading until achieving full current account convertibility of the
Cdrdoba by March 1992.
3.3   Relevancea ERC-I adopted relevant objectives and its comprehensive approach to
solving the problems was necessary as called for by the scope and size of the crisis.
Nicaragua needed fiscal and monetary discipline to stop inflation, to create the conditions
for growth, and to reduce the public sector and the current account deficits. Lower fiscal
deficits required improving tax management, removing tax exemptions, privatizing state
enterprises and restructuring those remaining in government hands-including state-
owned banks; it also implied demobilizing military forces and completing programs of
voluntary retirement of public sector employees. Mobilizing domestic savings and
increasing credit to the private sector required restructuring the state-owned banks and
adopting prudential regulation and efficient supervision of financial institutions. The
reforms were also needed to engage the private sector in developing the financial sector.
An appropriate market environment for developing the private sector required freeing



11
domestic prices, abolishing state monopolies, and reducing import tariffs and quantitative
restrictions to imports and exports.
3.4   Implementation experience. The credit was closed in June 1992, nine months
after its approval. Two reasons contributed to the fast disbursement. First, Nicaragua's
execution of an RMF stand-by had helped to improve fiscal and monetary policies.
Second, a technical assistance program helped the Government to start the reforms; the
substantial technical assistance would have been more effective if donors and the
Govermnent had coordinated their efforts better.
3.5   Outcome. The Government met all the conditions of the credit, but its outcome
fell below the optimistic expectations of IDA and the Borrower. In fact, despite the
actions taken, the economy stagnated because political instability continued, the
Government wavered in its efforts to reform the public sector and was slow in solving
property rights problems, and after the credit was disbursed it backslid in some areas,
especially in the financial sector. The PPAR rates the ERC-I outcome as satisfactory,
higher than OED's Evaluation Memorandum. The PPAR rates outcome higher because
the actions taken constituted a first, fundamental, step to turn the economy around. Had
these steps not been taken, the economy would have performned worse than it did, and
reforms in later years would have been more difficult to carry out. Without ERC-I
Nicaragua would not have had access to international credits, the arrears could not have
been cleared and it would have been deprived of the financial and technical assistance of
the donor community. ERC-I established the conditions for good management of
economic policy and, after the political uncertainty faded away, for faster growth.
3.6   Macroeconomic policies. The public finances improved over their pre-standby
and pre-credit situation, but throughout the execution of the credit they remained
unchanged. The consolidated public sector deficit fell from 29 percent of GDP in 1990 to
about 7.7 percent and 8.4 percent of GDP in 1991 and 1992. Public sector revenues
increased from 18 percent of GDP in 1990 to 25 and 29 percent of GDP in 1991 and
1992, higher than originally expected. Expenditures fell from 52 percent of GDP in 1990
to 34 percent of GDP in 1991, but increased to 37 percent of GDP in 1992, rather than
falling to the agreed 32.6 percent. Avoiding financing from the Central Bank helped
bring inflation down, from 7,485 percent in 1990 to 24 percent in 1992. The Government
cut 8,000 jobs from its payroll, privatized 161 of 351 enterprises, reducing their share in
GDP from 30 to 20 percent, and carried out some of the recommendations of IDA'S
public expenditures study (see Annex B).
3.7   Financial sector. The Central Bank carried out a tight monetary policy,
controlling the growth of credit and monetary aggregates. The Government created a
Banking Superintendency and submitted to the National Assembly a draft law to regulate
financial institutions. It merged Banco Inmobiliario (B1) with Banco Nicaragiiense de
Industria y Comercio (BANIC), reduced the staff and networks of the remaining state-
owned banks, and began plans to restructure BANIC, Banco Nacional de Desarrollo



12
(BANADES) and Banco Popular (BP).' It also authorized the operation of seven private
conmmercial banks (five more than initially intended), but state banks continued
dominiating the market. The Government hesitated at giving more room to private
financial entities because it: (a) lacked clarity on whether the Constitution mandated that
the financial sector was solely state property; and (b) believed that state-owned banks
wo ild relieve the credit constraints for small borrowers in rural areas.
3.8   Private sector development. Incentives for private sector development were
granited through deregulation and liberalization of domestic and external trade. On
doniestic trade it abolished state-trading monopolies, eliminated official price controls,
and privatized state-trading activities. On external trade, it unified the exchange rate,
brought import tariffs to within a range of 10-40 percent, eliminated most non-tariff
barriers, and introduced in 1992 an export promotion mechanism that, to be more
effective in achieving its goal, had to be simplified.
3.9    Despite the reforms, and contrary to expectations, growth did not take off. Real
GDP fell 0.1 percent in 1991, increased 0.4 percent in 1992 and decreased 0.4 percent in
1993. Besides the negative impact of natural factors and volatile international coffee
prices, the stagnation reflected the private sector's lack of confidence in the capacity of
the Govermnent to transform the structure of the economy. Private sector uncertainty
arose from the unstable political climate, the slow pace in solving property rights disputes
and the perceived indecisiveness of the Government in moving fast to establish a market-
driven economy.
3.10 Sustainabiity. In July 1995, the PCR rated the sustainability of ERC-I results as
dubious and OED rated it as uncertain. The political uncertainty and the weak
administrative capacity of the central and local governments explained the ratings. In the
mid-1990s the Government had not shown convincingly that it could maintain sound
macroeconomic policies, reduce its dependence on foreign aid and continue the reforms
started in 1991. Although still dependent on foreign lending to cover its external
imbalances, the Chamorro and Aleman administrations have demonstrated their
comnntment to economic stability and to structural adjustment. The sound economic
policies reduced inflation to about 10 percent and helped to increase annual growth rates
to about 4.7 percent between 1994 and 2001. Today, ten years after they started, the
reforms supported by the ERC-I are likely to be sustained and few question Nicaragua's
adherence to the principles of a market-based economy.
3.11   Institutional development impact. The ERC-I identified the institutional
weaknesses of the country, and supported better economic policies and some institution
building. By promoting private sector development, economic stability and respect for
property rights, the credit helped to take important steps in moving the economy from a
centrally planned towards a market based system. OED's evaluation summary rated the
ID impact of the credit as negligible. The credit was critical for the identification and
' The Government notes that better coordination amnong the international financial institutions would have prevented
themn form imposing contradictory conditions. In the case of BANADESA, IDA asked for its closure while the 1DB
supported a progratn to continue its operations.



13
assessment of the institutional weaknesses of the country. Time has shown that the
reforms supported by the credit have had a lasting impact on economic management and
the development of institutions that encouraged growth and stability. The reforms also
gave birth to a nascent respect for property rights and the rule of law. Based on the
credit's long-term effects, the institutional development impact of the loan should be
rated substantial.
3.12 IDA performanca IDA performance is not rated in the PCR. OED rated IDA
performance at entry unsatisfactory and its performance for supervision satisfactory. This
PPAR rates Bank performance as satisfactory. IDA helped the Government in preparing
its program, define its policies and normalize relations with the international financial
community but, at the time, it failed to properly assess the risks associated with the
operation and to predict the outcomes of reforms. Also, IDA overestimated the potential
impact of uncoordinated technical assistance on alleviating the shortcomings in the
Govermment's capacity to implement the changes needed. Opening a resident mission in
January 1992 constituted a major step for improving results and maintaining the dialogue
with the authorities.
3.13  Borrowerperformance. The PPAR rates Borrower performance as satisfactory.
Although the Government had few policy options and contributed little to the technical
preparation of ERC-I, it should receive the credit for supporting the principles underlying
the program proposed by IDA and for having implemented and met the conditionality in
its entirety, despite the domestic controversy its execution raised.
4.    Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC-II)
4.1   The reforms ERC-I supported touched some of the most fundamental problems of
the country, but they were insufficient to make the economy grow faster, recover and
entice the private sector to invest and produce more. Aware that the program supported
by ERC-I could only deal with part of the problems that plagued the economy, IDA
began to prepare with the Government an operation to complement and expand on what
ERC-I had achieved already. Political uncertainty delayed the preparation and negotiation
of the credit, but on May 27, 1994, the Board approved the Economic Recovery Credit II
for US$60 million and an IDA reflow of US$7.6 million. The financial package included
US$37 million from Japan.
4.2   Objectives. The ERC-II supported the Government's structural adjustrnent
program, and aimed at helping the country adjust to lower levels of foreign aid and
establish conditions to revive the private sector. The ERC-Il, processed in parallel with
an IMF ESAF arrangement, supported fiscal measures to strengthen macro-economic
stability.
4.3   The ERC-Il sought to reduce the scope of govemment intervention in the
economy, increase the efficiency of financial intermediation, and improve conditions for
private sector development. Like ERC-I, ERC-Il focused on (i) reform of the state; (ii)
reform of the financial sector; and (iii) private sector development.



14
For the reform of the state (see Annex B) the credit supported: (a) reducing public
sector employment; (b) completing the divestiture of most of the companies under
CORNAP, and extending it to utilities in oil, gas and telecommunications; and (c)
implementing over 1994-1997 a program to decentralize government activities, to
strengthen the Judicial and Legislative branches of the State, and to reform civil
service, budget and expenditure management, and tax and customs administration.
. For the financial sector, the credit supported: (a) reforming the two largest state
banks (BANADES and BANIC); (b) improving supervision of commercial banks
and extending the government's oversight over FNI (the second-tier state-bank),
INISER (the state insurance company) and the stock market.
* For private sector development the credit supported a program to: (a) strengthen
procedures for solving conflicts in property rights and for making compensation
bonds more attractive to their holders; (b) abrogate the powers of Ministries and
Government agencies to change tax and fiscal policies, and to create new
commercial enterprises; (c) reduce import tariffs up to a maximum of 37 percent
and replace the current export promotion mechanism for a duty drawback system
or a temporary admission regime; and (d) update labor market legislation
according to principles set out in the "Letter of Labor Policy" (see Annex E).
4.4   Relevanca The objectives of ERC-II were consistent with those of ERC-I and
relevant to address Nicaragua's economic problems. After the political disorder of 1994-
95, the Government realized that it had to restore economic stability and increase public
savings for the economy to grow and the central bank to gain international reserves. To
achieve these goals, the govermment had to reduce its payroll, divest state-owned
enterprises and prepare and execute a program to reform the public sector.
4.5   Reordering the state required keeping the rules of the game stable, reorganizing
public sector organizations-to deliver services effectively-and administering the legal
framework fairly. The changes were expected to improve the management of budget, tax
and customs, thereby increasing revenues and reducing the public sector deficit.
Improving financial intermediation required letting private banks enter the market and
the Government and Central Bank to stop capitalizing and lending to state banks. A
sound financial system also required proper economic incentives, good supervision, and
enforcement of financial norms and regulations on all banks.
4.6   Economic uncertainty made the private sector reluctant to invest, and to allay its
fears the Government had to: (i) protect property rights; and (b) set clear rules of the
game by ending the discretionary changes of tax policies, applying incentives
transparentl y, and clarifying labor market regulations.
4.7   The ERC-II dealt with some of the most serious problems in the country, and took
into account the volatile political situation and the weak institutional and managerial
capacity.



15
4.8   Implementation experience. Closed in June 1996, six months later than planned,
ERC-II fell victim to the breakdown of the political consensus that occurred between late
1994 and the Fall of 1995, when the Executive and the National Assembly clashed. The
National Assembly amended the Constitution and reduced the power of the Executive,
triggering a constitutional crisis that ended in June 1995. The Executive, in turn, opposed
the new Labor Code, a code that did not comply with the Labor Policy Letter agreed with
IDA.
4.9   The political crisis diverted the Govemment's attention from economic matters,
making it fail to meet the fiscal and monetary targets agreed in the ESAF; as a result, the
IMF canceled the mid-review scheduled for early 1995. As the ESAF stumbled so did the
ERC-II. The political impasse delayed the execution of the labor mobility program and
the reforrns in the public sector program. The clash made the divestiture of TELCOR,
PETRONIC and the state banks more difficult because the National Assembly, in a
conflict mood, had to approve the transfer of state assets to private parties.
4.10  The standstill led IDA to postpone disbursing the second tranche to February
1996, one year later, when the conditionality was fulfilled, a satisfactory macro-economic
framework was in place, and the IMF's ESAF was back on track. The third tranche was
disbursed in June 1996. Reform advanced in all sectors, notably in the development of
the private sector, where the government went beyond project covenants. IDA's
capacity to disburse later, when conditions were met, helped to implement the project
successfully.
4.11 Outcoma ERC-II outcome is assessed as satisfactory, as in OED's Evaluation
Memorandum, and lower than the ICR. ERC-II was relevant and succeeded in achieving
most of its relevant objectives. The economy grew faster, inflation fell below 10 percent
and unemployment fell from 17 percent in 1994 to 14 percent in 1997.
4.12 Main achievements. ERC-II met part of its goals for structural reforms. The labor
mobility program met its objective of reducing public sector employment, which fell
more than its target of 13,500 positions (about 8 percent of public sector employment).
The privatization program achieved most of its objectives. The Government divested of
66 of CORNAP's 72 enterprises and 10 of the 17 companies of the Ministry of
Construction and Transport, but did not complete the transfer of ownership for all. By the
end of 1996 the Government still owned PETRONIC and TELCOR. The sale of
TELCOR, transferred to ENITEL, a newly created agency set for privatization, was left
to the new government.2 Although it liquidated ENIGAS, it kept 75 percent of
LUBNICA's assets. The Government deregulated the gasoline market, and proposed the
full privatization of PETRONIC, an action that required legislative approval by the
National Assembly. IDA accepted that full privatization was preferable to privatization of
gasoline distribution but the Assembly approval would extend beyond the life of ERC-II.
When the Government submitted to the Assembly a law for privatizing PETRONIC, IDA
agreed to seek a waiver to this condition in March 1996.
2The Government notes that the pnvatization process of CORNAP's enterprises was made at heavy costs to the public
finances, with losses that still carry heavy burden for them.



16
4.13  The reform of thefinancial system fell short of plans. The strategy for containing
the growth of state banks (keeping them under close monitoring, avoiding their
recapitalization and subjecting them to prudential regulations) was partially executed, so
BANADES and BANIC continued dominating the banking sector. Because BANADES
and BANIC could not recover their loans they were exempted from complying with
prudential norms. After deciding to downsize BANADES, sell a majority of BANIC to
private parties, and transfer their non-performing assets to COBANICA, a new collection
agency, the Government postponed their restructuring.
4.14 While failing with BANADES and BANIC, the Government managed to advance
some reforms in other areas of the financial sector. The Government submitted to the
Legislature a General Banking Law that aimed at strengthening the regulatory powers of
the Superintendencia Bancaria y de Instituciones Financieras (SBIF).3 SBIF approved
new prudential norms in line with international standards, notably the capital adequacy
requirements, and the Central Bank improved its management of monetary and exchange
rate policies, by carrying out open-market operations and establishing an inter-bank
foreign exchange market.
4.15  The Government also began to improve the climate for private sector
development. It advanced in resolving property rights problems by: (a) reviewing more
than 100,000 cases related to properties in the housing and rural sectors, solving the
disputes in 82 percent of rural cases and 98 percent of housing cases; (b) increasing the
returns on the 20-year bonds introduced in 1992 to compensate those whose property had
been confiscated, making them negotiable and accepting that their holders use them to
settle liabilities with the tax office and state enterprises (see Annex E). It also ratified a
constitutional reform that allowed people linked to the Somoza regime to claim back
confiscated properties, and signed a landmark law that secured property rights and
constrained compensation to former owners.
4.16 Other actions reinforced those on property rights. The Government abrogated the
discretionary powers of Ministries and agencies to modify taxes and economic
regulations, concentrated those powers in the Presidency, and ordered changes to law and
regulations to be published in the Official Gazette; the constitutional amendment of 1995
vested in the Assembly most of the powers until then held by the Executive on tax
matters. It liberalizedforeign trade and, except for eight industrial products, it reduced
the maximum tariff to 35 percent, and in late 1997 the National Assembly decided to
reduce to 10 percent the tariff ceiling by the end of 1999.Nicaragua is a member of the
Central American Free Trade Area agreement, a group that will move to a customs union
by January 1, 2004; then, the tariff for trade among members would be zero and the
external tariff will consist of four groups of zero, five, 10 and 15 percent, representing 48,
27, 5 and 20 percent of tariff items. The reforms to the Labor Code, passed in October
1996 afler two years of negotiations between the executive and the National Assembly,
went beyond those agreed to in the Letter of Labor Policy.
3 The Governrment notes that financial liberalization and the opening of the capital account could be counterproductive
without a strong supenntendency of banks, and that pnvatizing a public monopoly while lacking an effective regulatory
agency could lead to inefficient outcomes.



17
4.17  Sustainability. The reforms supported by ERC-II have stood well, and the PPAR,
like the ICR, rates sustainability as likely, above OED's uncertain rating in 1998. With
support from the international community, the administration of President Aleman
continued the reforms started by the Chamorro administration. After Hurricane Mitch, the
international community forgave some of the country's debt and postponed service
payment, the IIMF approved in 1998 a second three year ESAF, and IDA included the
country in the group of highly indebted poor countries (HIPC). Entry into the HIPC
scheme gave the country another chance to get more debt relief IDA's ongoing
Institutional Development Credit, Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, and an Economic
Management TA credit have helped to consolidate the reforms of the state (privatization
of ENITEL, Tax Reform Law) and of the financial system (privatization of BANADES
and BANIC, and closure of Banco Popular [BP]). The credits supported the
Government's efforts to bring competition to the insurance market, to reduce import
tariffs and to offer guarantees to foreign investors. The administration of President
Bolafios, who took over in January 2002, pledged to create conditions for private sector
growth, and to combat corruption by reforming the Judiciary. His administration is
discussing a new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility agreement with the IMF,
focusing on public sector reform to boost private sector confidence in the economy.
4.18 IDA performance. IDA performance is rated satisfactory, the same as the ICR
and OED's evaluation memorandum. IDA moved quickly during identification and
appraisal, benefiting from an active policy dialogue, and supported a relevant credit for
the country. IDA also helped to attract co-financing and tried to ensure the consistency of
the donors' technical assistance programs. IDA's assistance could have been more
effective had it anticipated the problem of access to credit for small farmers, a problem
that delayed the Govermment's decision to divest of the state-owned banks.
4.19 Borrower performance. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. In spite of
adverse political circumstances, the Borrower owned the strategy, maintained its
commitment to the adjustment program, met most of the credit's covenants and did its
best to keep the program on track. The country's weak institutions and the initial
inexperience of the administration in planning and economic management contributed to
the delays and problems in selling and restructuring state-owned enterprises.
4.20 Institutional development impact. ERC-Il is considered as having a substantial
institutional development impact.
5.    Lessons
5.1   When the adjustment program requires deep economic changes, problems that
need long-run solutions must be tackled early, under a global strategy whose rationale,
constraints and benefits must be understood and accepted prior to approval of the credit.
IDA and the Borrower should work to prepare the civil society for the changes needed
and forthcoming, and whose benefits are not evident to the general public at first.



18
5.2   Under a fragile political environment and new democratic institutions,
institutional capacity tends to be weak. IDA and the Borrower must address this problem
early on, working with other donors and making the building of that capacity and the
strengthening of institutions an integral part of the assistance program.
5.3   IDA must tone down its expectations of what reforms can achieve in a short time.
IDA identified correctly the nature of the risks of failure, but it overestimated the
response to the reforms supported by both credits. IDA and the Borrower assumed
unrealistically that stabilization could be achieved in two years, and that an economic
recovery based on private sector growth would occur in parallel.
5.4   An adjustment economic program that aims at private sector-led growth should
focus from the beginning on developing and guaranteeing property rights, critical to
restore confidence to private investors. ERC-I did not focus on the property rights issue
and the desired response of the private sector did not materialize.
5.5   The structural reforms that Nicaragua required needed a medium- to long-term
horizon, and they are served better with programmatic lending credits than with fast
disbursing credits operating with a short-term horizon. Adopting a programmatic lending
approach fits best with a multiyear phased support, where each operation needs to be self
contained, and conditionality can be simpler and more specific.



19
Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
Nicaragua - Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2302-NI)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                          110                 110                    100
Credit amount                                 110                110                    100
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY91                     FY92
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                  110
Actual (US$M)                                              55                       110
Actual cumulative as % of Credit                           50                       100
Project Dates
Original Plan                 Revised Plan
Initiating Memo                                     01/10/91                      01/10/91
Preparation rmssion                                 01/15/91                      01/15/91
FEPS/IM-OC                                          05/13/91                      05/13/91
Depart appr.                                        06/06/91                      06/06/91
Yellow cover                                        07/05/91                      07/05/91
Documents to RVP                                    07/11/91                      07/11/91
Start negotiations                                  07/23/91                      07/23/91
Board approval                                      09/26/91                      09/26/91
Signing date                                        12/31/91                      12/31/91
Credit closing                                      06/30/92                      12/31/92
PCR completion                                      12/15/93                      03/31/94
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual
Weeks
Appraisal                                                          22.7
Preparation                                                        86.3
Negotiation                                                        25.0
Supervision                                                        45.9
Completion                                                         10.0
Total                                                              189.9
Mission Data
Stage ofproject cycle              Date               No. ofpersons      Duration of mission (#
(mm/vr. )of                                         )
Preparation                               01/91                   7                      2
Pre-appraisal                             04/91                   12                     2
Appraisal                                 06/91                   5                      2
Negotiation                               07/91
Supervision                               12/91                   1                      2
02/92                    3                      2
04/92                    3                      1
05/92                    1                      1
06/92                    2                      2



20
Annex A
Othier Project Data
B(orrn:wer/Executing Agency: Republic of Nicaragua
Relaited Bank Credits
Year of     Status    Closing
Credit title                     Purpose                   approval               date
ERC-II                Support the Government's structural adjustment  1994  Completed    06/30/96
program
Instbiutitnal         Improvement in delivery of public services and  1995  Completed    12/31/01
Development Credit    increasmg public savings



21
Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
Nicaragua - Second Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2631-NI)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal        Actual or         Actual as % of
estimate      current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                      60               61.7                103
Credit amount                            60               61.7                103
Cofinancing                              60               37.0                 62
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY95                     FY96
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                           52.6                     67.5
Actual (US$M)                                       31.0                     61.7
Actual cumulative as % of Credit                     59                      91.4
Project Dates
Original                   Actual
Identification                                01/15/93                   01/15/93
Preparation                                   03/05/93                   03115/93
Appraisal                                     06/03/93                   04/04/94
Negotiations                                     n.a.                  07/23-25/94
Board Presentation                               n.a.                    06/21/94
Signing                                          n.a.                    06/22/94
Effectiveness                                    n.a.                    06/29/94
Credit Closing                                12/31/95                   06/30/96
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               Actual
Weeks             US$
Through Appraisal                                          68.9             185.1
Appraisal-Board                                             1.1              2.2
Board -Effectiveness                                        7.3              23 8
Supervision'                                               20.0              67.7
Completion                                                  4.0              19.1
Total                                                      101.3             297.9
Task mnanagenment of ERC-H was performed by the Bank's Resident Representative m Nicaragua. The 20 SW figure refers mainly to
inputs of others, and likely understates the intensity of supervision.



22
Annex A
Mission Data
Duration   Specialized   Performance rating'      Types of problems
Stage of    Date        No, of     Of       staff skills             evelop.
project cycle  (mm/yr.)  persons   mission   represented     Pta     objectives
(W of        2       mSeetat     bjctve
days)                  Sau
Through       06/92         6         14     i (2), j, k, I
Appraisal
05/93        12        12      a, e, 1(2), n,
o, q, r, s,
07193         3         5      t, u
03/94        9          9      c, I, m
a, b (2), e
(2), I n, o, p
Appraisal
through       05/27/94
Board
approval
Board                                                         S          S
approval
through
effectlveness
Supervision   04/94         5        12.3     a, b, c, d, e   S          S
03/95         5                 a, b, c, f, g   S          S
03/96         2                    h, I         S          S
Completion    12/96         2         2
Plerfornance rating as shown in Superviston Form 590.
2 Key to sperialized staff skills:
a Lead Economist                  i EconoTmst                      q Taxation, Public Enterp Natural Res.
b Financial Economist            j Mining Specialist               r Property Rights Specialist
c Banking Specialist              k Energy Specialist              s Export Development Specialist
d Lawycr                          I Water and Sewerage Specialist  t Country Analyst
f Public Sector Specialist       m Financial Sector Specialist     u Country Officer
g Telecommunications Specialist   n Privatization Specialist
h Country Economist              p Resident Representative
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Republic of Nicaragua
Related Bank Credits
Year of     Status    Closing date
Credit title                   Purpose                 approval
ERC-1                  Support the Govemmenfs structural     1991      C.ompleted  12/31/92
adjustment program
Institutional          Improvement in delivery of public     1995      Completed   12/31/01
Development Credit     services and increasing public savings



23
Annex B
Reform of the State
Background
1.    By 1990, Nicaragua's non-financial public sector (NFPS) was large and consisted
of:
o The General Government, comprising the Central Government, the Social
Security and Welfare Institute (INSSBI), and 143 municipalities;
o Four public utility enterprises: The Nicaraguan Energy Institute (INE), the
Nicaraguan Institute for Water and Sewerage (INAA), the Telecommunications
and Postal Services Company (TELCOR), and the Nicaraguan Urban Bus
Company (ENABUS);
o  Other public utilities, (11) subordinated to the four majors, including the State
Oil Company (PETRONIC) a subsidiary of INE;
o  A large number of production companies that were expropriated or created over
the 1979-1990 period, and were either controlled by Ministries, notably the
Ministry of Construction and Transportation (MCT) or by the National
Corporation of Public Enterprises (CORNAP).
2.    As a result of political pressures stemming from strong unionization public sector
employment had swelled between 1979 and 1990. By the end of 1990 the number of
public employees was about 219,000, fivefold its 1978 level. Out of 209,000 NFPS
employees, about 109,000 were in the Central Government, and 91,300 in public
companies, of which 78,000 came under CORNAP. Moreover, public sector salaries
were high compared to the level of skills.
3.    Consequently the resources used in public sector expenditures exceeded public
sector revenue. Consolidated NFPS expenditures represented about 49 percent of GDP
while NFPS revenue barely exceeded 19 percent of GDP. Moreover, the distribution of
public expenditures between current and capital expenditures was not appropriate and by
1990 the NFPS only dedicated 2.1 percent of GDP to capital expenditures.
4.    The fiscal adjustments required to bring progress toward a sustainable
stabilization led the Government to: (i) reduce NFPS expenditures and increase its
revenue; (ii) initiate medium-term public sector reforms; and (iii) undertake, under the
Second Economic Recovery Credit, a major reform of the state based on the
recommendations of studies, notably those of the 1992 Public Sector Expenditure
Review.
5.    Both Credits contributed to restoring some macroeconomic stability and to
supporting the public sector reforms that addressed all the issues related to expenditures,
revenue, and size of the State.



24
Annex B
Labor Reduction Program
6.     The employment reduction prograrn supported by ERC-I was a success. Despite
implementation difficulties, during 1991-1992, public sector employment was reduced at
least by 98,500 positions, to 120,200, mainly demobilizing armed forces (from 83,000 to
15,000) and offering an early retirement plan. Additionally, 13,200 positions were
eliminated in 1993. During 1994-1996, ERC-ll supported successfully the extension of
the recleployment to the entire public sector under the Public Sector Mobility Program
which reduced the number of public employees by 18,000 positions, surpassing the initial
goal of 13,500.
Public Sector Employment
(Number of Employees at end of year)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1999
Central Government 109,160  95,120  93,000  82,230  81,020  75,930  73,020  70,970  65,090
Public Einterprises  13,280  10,480  10,040  9,910  9,450  8,340  7,970   8,160   7,310
CORNA1'          78,000   9,910   5,720   4,300   1,160   1,100    n/a     n/a     n/a
Banking Sector    9,920   6,550   5,060   4,100   4,120   3,810   2,960   2,020   1,690
Others            8,340   6,190   6,400   6,460   5,410   4,970   4,940   3,940   3,790
Total            218,700  128,250  120,220  107,000  101,160  94,150  88,890  85,090  77,880
Source. Cent al Bank of Nicaragua
As shown in the table, by the end of 1996, public sector employment had been cut by 31
percent over its level in 1991, the major downsizing having occurred at the enterprise
level in CORNAP.
Privatization Program
7.     The Government's strategy was to privatize companies of the "Area de
Propieclad del Pueblo " (APP), but retain ownership of public utilities. The privatization
of the APP enterprises was a major component for structural adjustment. Privatization
involved the sale of companies legally owned by the Government, the return of
confiscated companies to their legal owners, or liquidation. By divesting of these
companies, the Government aimed to: (i) reduce the public-sector share in the economy;
(ii) lower its administrative functions and management responsibilities; and (iii) earn
additional revenue for the budget.
8.     ERC-I helped to start-up the divestiture by helping CORNAP to: (i) complete, by
March 1992, the divestiture of at least 75 companies out of which 25 were fully
privatized while the remaining 50 were returned to their former owners or liquidated; and
(ii) prepare for sale another 30 companies. Under ERC-I, the Government divested 233



25
Annex B
of the 351 CORNAP enterprises. An additional 46 enterprises were privatized by May
1994.
9.    However, the international business community showed little interest in bidding
for CORNAP's assets and there was small capital repatriation connected with
privatization. The income generated by the divestiture was small, because, in many
cases, enterprises were returned to their previous owners and the operation included
"buying-out" the collective bargaining agreement and compensating the fired workers.
10.   ERC-HI supported more ambitious targets that were partially achieved. Sixty-
three of the remaining CORNAP enterprises were fully divested or closed and three
others lost their public majority ownership, but six CORNAP companies remained under
the control of the State. Regarding the public utility enterprises, the results were mixed.
In the energy sector, ENIGAS was liquidated and workers were paid with the company's
assets; twenty five percent of the oil company LUBNICA's capital was transferred to its
workers and the remaining 75 percent to INE, in order to repay debts to PETRONIC.
The Government's attempt to privatize PETRONIC by seeking the approval of the
National Assembly failed. However, deregulation of the gasoline market occurred: by
August 1995, private companies were in charge of the bulk of the distribution process
and regulatory functions were vested in INE.
11.   Moreover, 10 of the 17 original enterprises under the Ministry of Construction
and Transport were privatized or liquidated, and the personnel and equipment of its
remaining enterprises were reduced.
12.   The major setback occurred with the privatization of TELCOR in the
telecommunications sector. The privatization program was well advanced by the fourth
quarter of 1994: nine bidding companies had been prequalified, TELCOR's regulatory
powers had been transferred to ENITEL, the newly created agency to be privatized as
service provider, and a new Telecommunications Law had been sent to the National
Assembly. However, the Constitutional crisis that ensued interrupted the advance, which
resumed in July 1995. The sale of ENITEL was advertised in January 1996, and a public
call for bids was made before June 1996; with these steps IDA considered that the
Government had complied with the conditionality of "making progress." Nevertheless,
bid opening was postponed several times and the new Administration that took over in
1997 was left with the responsibility of privatizing ENITEL.
Public Sector Reforms
13.   Increasing government revenue was part of the strategy for the stabilization
program and to ensure the non-inflationary financing of public programs. Such effort
required an improvement of tax administration and tax management.
14.   ERC-I supported the initiation of an action plan with specific emphasis on: (i) the
General Value Tax (GVT) and income tax collection; and (ii) the removal of income tax



26
Annex B
exemptions and the phasing out of indirect tax exemptions. It also contributed to
organizational and procedural changes and to the strengthening of control and
enforcement of tax regulations. Notably, tax declaration and payment procedures were
simplified, corporate income tax unified and the number of brackets for personal income
tax was reduced. Programs on an automated management control system and a
compuLterized taxpayer identification system were also initiated.
15.   ERC-II focused on the implementation of the recommendations of the 1992
Public Sector Expenditures Review. The conditionality associated with the operations
resulted in the adoption, in October 1994, of a five-year Public Sector Reform and Action
Plan, covering: (i) institutional restructuring; (ii) civil service reform; (iii) budgetary
management; (iv) tax and customs administration; (v) decentralization; and (vi)
strengthlening of the Judicial and Legislative branches.
16.   By 1996 the following actions had been taken:
* The creation of a Reform of the State Management Unit to design and coordinate
the implementation of ERC-II.
*  The completion of six Institutional Restructuring Agreements (ARIs) with four
Ministries (Ministry of Construction and Transport; Ministry of Finance; Ministry
of Natural Resources and Environment; Ministry of Economy and Development)
as well as with the National Institute for Social Security.
* In MCT a planning division for economic infrastructure was established and an
Integrated Management System (SIGFA) was installed in all Central Government
rministries.
17.   Moreover, (i) a multi-year modernization program of the Judicial System,
including the construction of court houses and training for judges was implemented; and
(ii) a new social security system was designed and implemented, with social welfare
separated from pension and health insurance.
18.   Supported by IDA sector credits, public sector reforms continued after ERC-II
was closed. Notably, a reorganization of the Executive Branch occurred, as well as a
reform of the pension system.



27
Annex C
Public Sector Expenditure Review
Main Recommendations
Background
1.    The main purpose of the Public Expenditure Review was to assist the Government
in improving the allocation of public resources and strengthening the institutions
involved in financial management and project implementation.
2.    Although the Govemment had taken steps to improve the fiscal balance, larger
effort were required on the current expenditure side. Severe institutional and management
problems magnified the difficulties resulting from the large size of the public sector. The
system leading to expenditure decision was inadequate and deficient. Poor methods of
planning and control were used by most ministries. The entire system of expenditure
management and control need to be strengthened. Institutional weakness was particularly
worrisome in the management of extemal aid.
Diagnosis and Strategy of Reform
3.    The expenditure review identified six main problems: (i) institutional, procedural
and processing problems of budgeting, investment planning and aid coordination; (ii)
weak accounting function, leading to poor ex-post control and non-existing auditing; (iii)
recurrent expenditure;
(iv) expenditure pattems (in particular in the social sectors) not reflecting govemment
priorities;
(v) weak institutional and administrative capacity, both in the line ministries and in the
public enterprise; and (vi) too large public investment program (PIP) for the
Govenmment's implementation capacity.
4.    The Govemment could not tackle all the problems at once, and three phases were
proposed to deal with them. The first should deal with recurrent expenditures to reduce
the risks of destabilization from large budget deficits. The second phase would consist
of: (i) a comprehensive reform of the civil service; (ii) rationalization of budget
preparation; (iii) rationalization of project preparation; and (iv) reforms in the education,
transport, energy and water sectors.
5.    The actions to be implemented were the following:
Issues that need to be addressed most urgently
(a) Reduce and restructure the Central Government current expenditures: (i) reduce
the wage bill while increasing wages for professionals; (ii) reduce expenditures in



28
Annex C
g(:ods and services, while increasing allocations for operations and maintenance; and
(iii) reduce expenditures for defense.
(b) Strengthen and restructure budgetary management by defining responsibilities for
the core units which deal with budgetary practices and expenditure control, and
establishing an accounting system.
(ca Establish a new expenditure control mechanism by: (i) revitalizing expenditure
control by the Auditor General; and (ii) extending overall budgetary practices and
expenditure control to the Ministries of Defense and Police and the item
"UTnforeseen Expenditures."
(d) Improve the mechanism for coordination and control of external aid by
establishing an External Aid Coordination Committee that regulates the aid flows.
(e) Establish a government-wide accounting system. The proposed Budgeting and
Accounting Units in each institution would be headed by a Ministry of Finance
(MIEN) appointed Accountant, and would bear key responsibility for
bookkeeping and preparing year-end final accounts of the institutions. Each
institution must submit its year-end final accounts to the Auditor General via
MIFIN for legality and veracity clearance.
(f) Prepare an implement a Technical Assistance program. In order to expedite the
above restructuring efforts, short-term three-pronged technical assistance needs to
be provided to MIFIN consisting of: (i) training seminars for MIFIN staff on
improved budget preparation, implementation and control issues, and some
academic training abroad for Budget Directorate staff; (ii) technical assistance for
the formulation of an overall government accounting system; and (iii) several
short-term consultants in ex-post expenditure control, revision of the auditing
mechanism by the Auditor General, and mid-term expenditure planning.
eg) Reallocate funds toward primary health care from curative to preventive care,
and introduce a targeted fee system for both consultations and drugs, to improve
efficiency and signal to users the cost of the different kinds of treatment. The
funds collected should be allocated to primary health care.
( h) Reallocate funds towards primary education by: (i) reducing subsidies to higher
education; (ii) developing cost-recovery options (in particular in higher
education); (iii) charging universities for the use of public utilities; and (iv)
reforming the retirement provisions of the "Ley de Carrera Docente" in line with
Nicaraguan Institute of Social Security (INSSBI) national rules.
(i) Produce a sectoral strategy in the agricultural sector: Define the short and
medium-term sectoral objectives, and the roles of the different institutions in
meeting those objectives. A Committee should be set up to assist in the
coordination of the overall sector policy.



29
Annex C
Issues to be addressed subsequently
(a) Establish the accountability of government institutions. The Auditor General of
the Republic should audit all govemment expenditures and institutions on behalf
of the National Assembly as a superior organization and officially inform that
body of its findings.
(b) Improve the mechanism for preparing the Public Investment Program. The
Ministry of Economy and Development (MEDE) needs a clear mandate to: (i)
coordinate the preparation of national and sectoral strategies, to be then translated
into specific investment projects; and (ii) enforce agreed upon priorities and
allocate domestic and external resources to the priority projects.
(c) Strengthen institutional capacity for PIP elaboration through technical assistance
to the core ministries, the line ministries, and the public utility companies.
(d) Restructure the civil service system and establish a sound salary scale by:
(i) establishing a separate Civil Service organization; (ii) setting up a system of
establishments and payroll lists (iii) preparing position tables for each institution;
and (iv) forbidding institutions to appoint staff without having a position
authorized by MIFIN.
(e) Reduce personnel in public enterprises. INE, INAA and TELCOR should devise
programs to reduce staffing levels to their revised functions.
(f) Privatize or close all firms producing goods that are now operating under the
Ministries.
Final Phase
6.    The final phase of the reforms includes an emphasis in reforming sectoral policies
and strengthening sectoral institutions.
(a) Reduce expenditures on the item "General Services" by: (i) reducing the number
of independent institutes; (ii) restructuring the urban transport subsidy; and (iii)
reforming the Law earmarking funds for the University.
(b) Reduce the size of central administration after doing a study assessing where and
by how much the ratio of service to administrative personnel should be increased.
(c) Set up a preliminary modelfor mid-term expenditure planning to establish
consistency between revenues and expenditures as well as with expenditure
priorities.
(d) Ministry of Education (MED) has to change teacher training, accreditation and
reward alternatives.
(e) Promote private sector investment in the energy sector by: (i) creating an
autonomous regulatory entity that promotes an efficient development and use of
energy resources; and (ii) promoting private sector participation, particularly in
power generation, distribution and commercialization.



30
Annex C
(f) Improve operational andfinancialperformance of the Nicaraguan Energy
Institute (INE) by: (i) reducing personnel; (ii) undertaking an effective power
losses reduction program; and (iii) improving budgeting, auditing, control and
managerial information systems.
(g) Develop institutions for the rural water sector. Plans should be elaborated in
coordination with donors (that provide most of the services in rural areas): (i) to
determine how their technical and financial assistance will be phased out and (ii)
operations and maintenance handed over to municipal water companies,
communities or private water companies.
(h) Improve Nicaraguan Institutefor Water and Sewage (fNAA) and other sectoral
institutions' management capacity to execute and supervise more projects



31
Annex D
Financial Sector Reform
Background
1.    By 1979, Nicaragua had one of the most advanced financial systems in Central
America, with a combination of state, private national and foreign subsidiaries banks
providing a wide range of financial services.
2.    After taking power, the Sandinista Government: (i) eliminated private national
institutions and nationalized all private commercial banks; (ii) transferred control of
state-bank operations to a holding company which would evolve into the Corporacion
Financiera de Nicaragua (CORFIN); and (iii) reduced the number of financial
institutions to five:
o Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADES) servicing the agriculture and
livestock sector;
o Banco Nicaraguiense de Industria y Comercio (BANIC) servicing industry and
trade, largely oriented toward the urban sector;
o Banco de Credito Popular (BCP) servicing the small scale sector;
o Banco Inmobiliario (BIN), servicing the housing sector; and
o Fondo Nicaragujense de Inversi6n (FNI).
3.    The complete specialization of the five institutions and persistently negative real
interest rates on loans reduced management incentives to improve the quality or
efficiency of their operations. Myriad subsidies and the use of the banking system to
pursue political objectives undernined the loan repayment culture. Bank managers rolled
over poor and non-perfonning loans to maintain the flow of resources to targeted sectors
and, periodically, the Government forgave or rescheduled overdue loans. All banks were
highly dependent on Central Bank rediscount. Eighty-three percent of the growth in
credit originated in the Central Bank and 96 percent of it was granted to the public.
4.    Since the early 1 980s, monetary policy was managed to provide inexpensive loans
to the productive sector and finance the large borrowing requirements of the Government.
Credit expansion resulted in accelerating inflation. Attempts to restrain its growth in
1988-1990 failed. In response to hyperinflation and the steady decline in the economy,
the holdings of money and quasi-money fell from 55 percent of GDP at the end of 1988
to 27 percent by the end of 1989.
Financial Sector Reform
5.    Starting in 1991, a number of steps were taken to reform the financial system and
improve the efficiency of financial intermediation. By March 1991, a law was enacted
that set forth the functions of the Superintendency of Banks and allowed private financial
intennediaries to coexist with state-owned restitutions.



32
Annex D
6.    The restructuring of the state-owned banks along with the cessation of Central
Bank subsidies and discounts, and the promotion of an efficient private financial sector
were the key elements of the reform program that both ERCs supported. Over the ERC-I
imrplemiientation period, CORFIN was closed and BIN was liquidated. In June 1992, the
restructuring of BANADES and BANIC was prepared as the Government wrote off and
bought their non-performing loans, recapitalizing them indirectly. Both institutions were
alsc, submitted to the prudential norms issued by the Superintendency and had to
undertake a major cost-reduction program, substantially reducing branches and staff.
Over the ERC-II implementation period, the state banks were kept under close
monitoring and not recapitalized; their non-performing assets were transferred to
COB3ANICA, their loan growth submitted to ceilings and their network further
downs ized.
7.    A legal and regulatory framework appropriate to private banking operations has
beerL progressively established. Rules and standards to initiate operations were issued by
October 1991. The Superintendency of Banks and other Financial Institutions (SBIF)
strengthiened guidelines on capital adequacy, loan concentration and assets evaluation, as
well as penalties for non-compliance. A General Banking Law was also submitted to the
National Assembly, which approved it in 1997. Finally, the insurance sector had been
liberalized in July 1996, when the National Assembly passed a reform opening up the
market to private competition.
8.    The Central Bank Law approved in 1992 gave the monetary authority part of the
autonorny it had lost. Stringent conditions were placed on Central Bank of Nicaragua
(CBN) financing of both the Government and the financial system. Notably, credit lines
to the State banks were discontinued. A mostly market-determined interest rate structure
was gradually adopted, direct controls over the financial system were lifted and reserve
requirernents varied by category of deposits imposed. New monetary policy instruments
were also introduced. The placement of negotiable investment certificates with
maintenance of value (CENIS) for open market operations was initiated in 1995. An
inter-bank foreign exchange market was established, exchange restrictions were phased
out anld the exchange rate was unified by early 1996.
9.    The regulatory framework for the banking system is established and broadly
appropriate, with two key laws: (i) the 1963 Law on Banks and Other Financial
Institutions; and (ii) Law 125 of 1991 creating the SBEF. Other legal sources, sometimes
contradictory and with vague definitions, give room for discretion in the application of
norms and regulations
The Financial System After the Reform
10.   T he financial system structure has experienced a major transformation. Notably:
* The commercial state banking system is restricted to three institutions:
BANADES, BANIC and BCP.



33
Annex D
*  Ten private banks were established and nine were operating by the end of 1996.
*  Four private insurance companies were set up by banks and were competing with
INISER, the state insurance institute.
  The stock exchange was operating but its activity was limited.
11.   The bases for financial system supervision have been established. Even though
mainly focused on banks, SBIF was empowered to: (i) supervise all institutions,
including the Central Bank; (ii) establish regulations and norms for all institutions; and
(iii) license new financial intermediaries. SBIF has a widespread jurisdiction over the
state and private banking sector, the stock exchange, insurance companies, deposit
warehouses and any other activity or institution that intermediates funds from the public
(leasing, factoring, credit cards, funeral companies and pawn shops are included).
12.   The system has gained depth as reflected by the rise in the ratio of liquid
liabilities of financial intermediaries to GDP. The growth has been mainly in US dollar
denominated deposits, whose share was close to 63 percent in 1997 compared to 29
percent in 1991. The allocation of financial resources has improved. The share of state
banks in total private sector credit has declined with the transfer of their non-performing
assets, nearly 40 percent of their portfolio, to a private collection agency, COBANICA, in
1996. State banks accounted for 21 percent of total assets, down from nearly 95 percent
in 1991.
13.   Despite the improvements in 1996, the financial system is still fragile. State banks
(BANADES and BANIC) continue to control an important share of the sector, and their
performance remains poor. BANADES was not fulfilling its mandate to serve small
producers, its clientele had fallen, credit recoveries continued to be low and the annual
operating costs were high. BANIC had similar problems and its portfolio was highly
concentrated. Private banks have achieved substantial annual rates of return (15-35
percent), because of high intermediation margins and highly profitable investments in
public bonds. Despite that each of the 12 banks remains small in terms of credit market
share, which is reflected in high administrative costs. They are also undercapitalized,
with an overall equity amounting to US$70 million in 1996, compared with US$500
million in El Salvador. Private banks were subject to a capital adequacy ratio of 8
percent, but the development bonds (BOFOS) they issued, and the Central Bank
repurchased, contributed to a significant part of their capital. The Managua Stock-
Exchange remains small. The main traded instruments are Central Bank and Government
paper (CENIS and Compensation Bonds). As of 1996, the total volume of transactions in
equities and bonds had reached US$320 million.



34
Annex E
Matrix of Policy Actions, Measures and Results Within the
Two Economic Recovery Credits Over the Period 1991-1996
Objectives                  Conditionality                StatuslResults
I. Macro-economic Framework   1) Maintain a stable          1) In 1991, Nicaragua initiated an
macroeconomic framework       economic adjustment program
Ensure an appropriate and stable  including fiscal deficit and  within a Stand-by Credit
macroeconomic framework       domestic credit ceilings     (Septemnber 1991-March 1993).
consistent with stabilization  Targets were partially met.
objectives.
2) In April 1994, Nicaragua
2) Maintenance of exchange rate  entered into an ESAF framework
policy consistent with export  for a three-year period, but
competitiveness, which reflects  recuTrent difficulties for meeting
changes in monetary indicators  targets (fiscal) led to a
notably.                      Monitoring Program agreement
in Septemnber 1995, and in
September 1996, to ESAF
suspension.
2) Done, with reservations.
3) Satisfactory progress      3) Done, with reservations.
implementation through reduction
of public expenditures, in military
areas and increasing public
revenues.
4) Action plan for carrying out  4) Done.
recommendations of the study on
public expenditures to be
presented.
II. Reform of the State       1) Demobilization of militia and  1) During 1990-1993, public
military draftees by 35,000, as  sector employment was reduced,
A. Public Sector Labor Mobility  well as retiring of 5,000 military  by 183,000 positions to 107,000,
Achieve a permanent cost      officers (1991).              through downsizing armed forces
reduction to strengthen the fiscal                          (83,000 to 15,000), privatization
balance thtrough reduction in the                           or closure of public enterprises
labor force.                                                (74,000 employees involved) and
an early retirement plan.
2) Introduction of an externally  2) During 1994-1996, public
funded employment             sector employment was reduced
redeployment program to relocate  by 10,300 positions. The target
9,000 of 69,000 central       would be surpassed in 1999, as



35
Objectives                  Conditionality                 Status/Results
government employees,         14,000 positions were cancelled.
(including 3,000 additional
military personnel) to be
completed for 8,000 personnel (in
1991).
3) Preparation of an action plan to
extend redeployment to entire
public sector, including
CORNAP, initiating its
implementation (1992) in order to
reduce employment by 13,500
positions during 1994-1996.
B. Privatization Program
1) Promote more efficient      1) Established CORNAP and     1) All but five of the companies
resource allocation and lower  endowed it with responsibility for  under CORNAP were privatized,
fiscal burden through divestiture  both managing and privatizing  returned to their former owners,
of state enterprises.          351 state enterprises grouped in  or liquidated, over the 1990/1995
22 corporations, while working  period.
out a strategy for divestiture, and
adopting an action plan to
privatize CORNAP (1991).
2) Improve the efficiency and  2) Complete the privatization of  2) By the end of 1995 was
service coverage by promoting  at least 25 companies through  completed the process of selling
private sector participation in the  CORNAP; the devolution of their the assets of CONSULTRAN
utilities sector, notably the  original owners, or the liquidation  (MCT enterprise). A study on the
telecommunications.            or the transfer to private sector of  privatization of another 7 firms
at least 50 companies through  under MCT was completed
CORNAP (1992).                 awaiting its implementation.
3) At least 30 additional     3) As of December 1994,
companies under CORNAP        PETRONIC ceased to have a
prepared for sale to private sector  state-monopoly on distribution
(1992).                        activities. Its organic law was
then reformed (1995) to place it
as a commercial company.
4) Bring to the point of sale or  4) Twenty-five percent of the
closure enterprises under     capital of LUBNICA was
CORNAP and MCT(1994-1996)     transferred to its workers, the
remaining 75% being transferred
to INE, to repay debts to
PETRONIC.
5) Bring to the point of sale or  5) In 1995, Legislature approved
liquidation some of the operations  laws to separate the regulatory
(gasoline distribution) of     and operational activities of the
PETRONIC, while its regulatory  following public utilities:
functions are defined.



36
Obiectives                  Conditionality               Status/Results
* Telecommunications
(TELCOR, ENITEL)
. Power (INE, ENEL)
6) In December 1995, a law
6) Take steps for the sale of 40%  created ENITEL to operate public
of ENITEL shares, including the  telecommunications services, and
offer of a management contract  authorized to sell up to 40% of its
for the winning bidder (1994-  shares, as requested.
1996).
C Tsax System and Administration  1) Removal of income tax  1) Corporate income taxes were
exemptions and approval of a  unified, nurnber of tax brackets
1" Increase and maintain tax  program to phase out indirect tax  for personal income taxes were
revenue to ensure objectives of  exemptions, including import tax  reduced, the maximum marginal
stabil[ization and non/inflationary  exemptions (1991).    income tax was reduced in line
financing of medium/term                                    with regional standards, and the
gove rnment program                                         VAT was raised from 10 to 15%
(1990-1991).
2) Sijmplify and strengthen tax
administration.               2) Adoption of a plan to improve  2) The registry of the 10,000
tax administration with specific  largest tax contributors was
emphasis on GVT and income tax  updated and modermzed (1990-
collections (1991), to be initiated  1992).
immediately.
3) Tax exernptions were reduced;
public enterprises were subjected
to taxation; income taxes
applicable to agricultural and
non-agricultural activities were
unified; and coffee exporters
were subjected to withholding tax
(1993-1995).
D. Public Sector Reforms
1) Prepare and begin          1) Conditionality was fulfilled.
Creale an efficient, smaller and  implementing a 3-year plan in
modern public sector.        line with the Government's
public sector reform policy
statement covering: institutional
restructuring, civil service
reform, budgetary management,
tax and customns administration,
decentralization and
strengthening of the Judicial and
Legislative branches (1994-
1996).
2) Create and initiate staffing of a  2) Multi-year modernization
Reform of the State Program   program of the judicial system,
Management Unit, which will   including the construction of
design and coordinate the     courthouses in most principal
program (1994).               capital and training program for
all judges was implemented, from
_ ______________________                                1992  to  1998.



37
Objectives                   Conditionality                Status/Results
3) Achieve satisfactory progress  3) Imnproved transparency and
in its implementation, including  accountability m management of
the restructuring of at least 2  public finances through the
important public institutions.  adoption of an Integrated
Management System (SIGFA) in
central government ministries.
4) As of December 1996, six
Institutional Restructuring
Agreements (ARI) had been
finalized (for MCT, MIFIN,
MARENA, MEDE, INIFOM and
INSS) and reforms started to be
implemented, notably:
(i) In MCT, a Planning Division
for Economic Infrastructure was
created;
(ii) In INSS, a new social security
system was designed and
implemented (social welfare
being separated from pension and
health msurance).
m. Financial Sector Reform
A. Bankdng Sector Policy       1) Adoption of an action program  1) A policy of reducing the size
for the restructuring of state  of the state banking sector has
Improve the allocation of      owned banks and carrying out  been imnplemented within the
resources and the efficiency of  the: i) liquidation/merger of BIN  framework of a state reform
financial intermediation       with BANIC; ii) dissolution of  program agreed with IMF, World
regulating banking activities,  CORFIN; iu) restructuring BNIC, Bank and IDB. As of January
strengthening monetary control  BND and BP according to plans.  1997, the state banking sector
and developing a private sector                              included 3 institutions:
based financial system.                                      BANADES, BANIC and BCP.
2) Maintaining policy of: i) not  2) Non performing assets of
recapitalizing state banks,   BANADES and BANIC were
through new public sector funds  transferred to COBANICA, a
or revaluation of non-financial  new collection agency (1996);
assets; ii) ensuring compliance  ceiling was set on BANADES
with prudential norms and     loans growth and its network
banking regulations; iii) no   downsized.
pre/assigning of rediscounts from
the Central Bank for specific
activities.
3) A new law permitting the
3) Submission to Legislature of a  establishment of private banks
bill on Banking and Financial  and creating a Superintendency of
Institutions, to be developed and  Banks was approved (1991).
implemented with technical     Further on in 1995 and 1996, a
assistance support.            new General Banking Law and a
new Central Bank Law were
approved.



38
Obiectives                   Conditionality                Status/Results
4) Adoption of an interest rate  4) Interest rate controls were
policy close to the market.    progressively removed and
directed credit was eliminated.
5) Cessation of Central Bank   5) Private banking has developed
subsidies and discounts except for rapidly. Moreover, insurance
agriculture and mnicro-enterprises.  market was opened up to private
interests (1996).
6) Issuance of licenses (3 at least)
to start-up private financial
institutions.
B. Superintendency of Banks
1) Establishment of a appropriate  1) Adoption of regulations for the  1) In May 1996, the
regulatory framework to be     implementation of the          Superintendency of Banks and
progressively strengthened.    Superintendency Law and start-  other Financial Institutions
up of activities.             (SBIF) approved new prudential
norns on loan concentration,
capital adequacy and assets
evaluation, and reforms to
exception to the norms.
2) Enforcement of prudential   2) Increase penalties, create new  2) The new General Banking Law
r orrns adopted by the         prudential norms and improve the  included the strengthening of the
Superintendency.               operations of the              Superintendency.
Superintendency of Banks, under
an agreed action plan.
3) Improve the financial       3) Design and implement a debtor  3) The system is operating with
information system and         management system.             three tools: relevance analysis,
accounting systems.                                           balance information, loan
amounts and provisions. The
central risk system is tested, to
maintain it current.
4) Implement a new chart of    4) A new chart of accounts has
accounts.                      been implemented since 1994,
mcluding all state and private
banks.
IV. Private Sector Development
1) Establish a program to review  1) Established a National Review
Improve climate and incentives  conpliance with current       Commission, an Office of
for pnvate sector activity.    procedures to resolve property  Temtorial Ordering and the
conflicts.                     Office of Quantification of
A. Property Rights (ERC-II only)                              compensation, during 1992-1993.
Resolve property nghts disputes!  2) Satisfactory implementation of  2) As of 1996, the Office of
problems m order to improve    the verification process.      Territorial Ordering had resolved
secuLrity of land tenure.                                     12, 117 cases (houses) equivalent
to 98% of the total number of
cases presented for review. With
respect to rural sector, 82% of the
106,130 cases submitted were
reviewed.



39
Objectives                   Conditionality                Status/Results
Progress was also made on 91 %
of the Agrarian Reform cases.
3) Complete study on potential  3) As of December 1996, 4501
uses of the Compensation Bonds,  resolutions were issued, covering
with the objective of raising their  89% of the total claims presented
value.                         to the Integrated System for
Review of Property Claims.
Since 1993, Compensation Bonds
had been issued for an amount of
C$3,933 million. Moreover, on
the basis of the study a Law
reduced the period of the Bonds
from 20 to 15 years, their fixed
interest rate was increased to
reach 5% and the use of the
bonds was extended, to cover tax
payments notably. Late 1996, a
redemption system was created
allowing these.
B. Discretion in Economic Policy  Issue a presidential decree  Two Presidential Decrees were
Promote a more stable and      establishmg a policy disclosure  issued in April 1994 enforcing
transparent policy environment,  for tax and fiscal matters,  publication of Decrees and
reducing ministerial discretion.  abrogating and elevating to the  Administrative Rulings in the
Presidency, the powers of      Official Gazette, and abrogating
Ministries and government      the discretionary powers of
agencies to change policies and to  Ministries.
create state enterprises.
C. Foreign Trade Reform and    1) Trade deregulation opening  1) State exporting and importing
Deregulation                  import and export trade to private  monopolies were eliminated
sector.                       (1991-1992).
Increase output and
diversification of tradable goods  2) Design a price-based   2) A schedule for the reduction of
by increasing private sector   mechanism to replace import   nominal tariff ceilings was
participation in trade.        quotas, and eliminate quantitative  estabhshed (1994) and at the end
restrictions on food grain imports. of 1996 the ceiling was below
Promote export growth                                        40%.
3) Reduce nominal protection
rates to a range of 10°/o-37%  3) Price controls were eliminated
(except for fiscal industries).  on all products except public
utilities (1991-1993).
4) Foreign exchange allocation
mechanisms liberalization.
5) Action plan to replace existing
export promotion mechanisms by
a duty drawback system.
6) Elimination of most domestic
price controls.
D. Labor Market Reform         Comply with agreements on labor New Labor Code was
Promote greater labor          policy.                       promulgated in 1996.
productivity



40



41
Annex F
Comments Received from the Government
Managua, April 14,2003
Mr. K. Kylc Pcten
Senior Mana
Country Evaluaton aod Regional Relations
Operatons Evaluations t)cpatmcnt
The Wor Bank
ISI &H StrSet, NW
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Peten:
Regarding your lettr on March 24, 2003, on the reviews of the two Economic Retovezy
Crts to our county, we arc enc  g ie offal comments of our Instittion.
Tlh poess of evaluation stsaed on the drft of the Project Pefomance Assessment report
(PPAR) of these Aedits we feel it shuld be weA in learning from past expaience, not only
for The World  an, but also for dte Nicar an autorities. Thee evaluations holp us im
analyzing and leaning fom our erros in order to better accomplish our tasks in the fiuture.
Sincerelyyour
President
cc:   Lic. Mario J. Flores. GCnral Manager



42
Annex F
Cmmests on "Nicaaga - Eco4mk :Recoaw          CedkAs
I.    The document on Nicragua presents a good  =mmaty on the events, achievemets and
failures associated not only to te two economic rcoveWy credits but abo on the outcomes
foblowing the di  *ursent period. However, as it has been seen in many ote cases studied in
sh transiton economies. there are more quesions dt   nswers
2.    Tn general, countries shifg from a command ecm       y to a market oTient,
exprience highly compkcx policy decisions. in adtion, IDA progrmms (ointly with MDB and
IMF progmams) encomps a whole set of policies that i   e compkx design and plnning
problems md even more complex aeeution problems. The documet seems wo coain the
obsevatons that aid sometmcs is insufficiently conditional, and at the same ime, the
condition imposed arc not always hulby enforcoable Iec   research studies ar  wc foused
on how the coaion          end the inteationl fimnanl nstirnons (IFI) poes       of
ineracto  with h borrowing countres affct their        _   o implemt the nfams.
Tlhe process should be made in sch a way that there win be a stong "country ownership" of
the rdimm program in orda to restore and maintain a stable maroeon ic enviromeat Ths
whole process. hower. should have hgb coorination among the EFs and other donors, that
in the case of Nicragu, it seems wa very low and some tnes coritdictoy (World Bank
asked for clming BANADES and DB ha a pogrum for contnuing its opestion).
3.    The progrs were desisned with a S set of policies that kept intenal consiency but
reied on an xplicit sequencing of aions that not alwWs conoltd on time. For instance,
finacia liberalizahon and the opniig of the capital acco   both could be countaproductive
withot a trong supeaintdence of bas, and Nicaraga is an xaample of tdim policy mistake.
Pvatizing a public monopoly wvile lacg   an efiecv reguatory agency lead to higber
price and kss ovrl efficeny.
4.     The famework for econoTic r8wth envisioned in the documen was vwy simpl and
fidl of generalities. It is usefu to have had a clear understading of the role phyed by allocative
efficienc in prices that would lead to productive efficiency. The same could be said of
libeaizng freign ode. privaszing pubEc emepdsa, reducing slam    inetsention, adding
tanpreny, etc. Alough these developments are imant for any country they do not
epin success or failure io the strategy for economic growth and sometmes can awn
presures on publc finances. Even more, we could idenf mstance of conflicting objectives
betwen stabiliza o  nd ussuctal adjustme  podcies. For instac, in Nicaragua's case, the
P"vtiion prooess of te CORNAP's entapTris, was made a heavy cost, with losms that
at the present me    heavy burden for its public finances Furthemore, several authors bave
observd that hig labor-capil ratios (leating to low output-abor ratios) accompanied by
popuation dynamics in the absene of extealities can lead to poverty traps. mid muker-
ffiendly policies ae not alwas a subsite for eaernaliies.
S.    Them is some evidence that sound policies (trade openness, strong competition and
higbe turneny) are conducive to instio*iol growth. specially in the ptesenc of stong
external  hcentiv  (anchors), but it aso seem  that causat  can be TunTug in the other



43
Annex F
direction. that is the strength and sustainry of policies depend on the qualy of the
istitutional settings Successfiul market-baed aConiOs need insttons hm (a   AM)
will protect not only people's propety rights but also a Judiciay sth  can uphold the rle of
law wad rein in conupon.
6     In this context, it should be frtiw enphasized the need for mnstitutions  treagtaing
to be a: the forefront of effofts to improve growth and reduco povrty. This is additional to
provide appropriate regulaton of product, fator and fm mcial rkes to ctcricw  the
sowrc  or consequences of nwarket filures, and to suppont macmoeconomic stability, The main
intclTogation still rains, what might constitute an approprinte reform agenda for a corty
hIke Nicaragua, in tems of institutional desip and refonn strategies and prioritio?
7     Finally, there are issues caming from the politi  economy of ronfm. The docun t
should be more aware of how vested interests might undennine the reform process. With
burdens unequally and unfairty shared, the losers and espeialy wel-organized domesiic
inest goups can underamin the reform efforts, infhucg saborities' politial cost-beasfit
calculus and delaying the decision process. In Nicarapu, it was rdevam the actions of thes
domestic groups in nakiniig the poJlical  abilit    and slowig down the appoval of
reured legislation and reforms to meet al the goals speaully in the area of privatzation wd
6nf cial system programs,















IMAGING
Report No.:         25887
Type:      PPAR



