Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5181-Ri
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
January 10, 1985
Central Agriculture
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Franc Rwandais (RP)
US S1.00         =    RF 97.00
RF 100           =    US $1.03
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                          British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =    3.3   feet
1 hectare (ha)                  2.47  acres
1 are (100 m2)            =    0.02  acre
1 kilometer S1oM)               0.62 mile
1 are (100 a )            -    0.01  hectare
1 square kilometer (km2)        0.39  square miles (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)           =    2.2   pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                     0.26  US gallons (gal)
1 metric ton (a ton)            2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CERAI   -  Centres d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal IntEgri
CGIAR   -  Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CIAT    -  International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIMMYT  -  International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP     -  International Potato Center
EA      - Executive Architects
EDF/FED -  European Development Fund/Fonds Europgen de D4veloppement
FAC     -  Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization (United Nations)
FSIP    -  Farming Systems Improvement Project
FSR     -  Farming Systems Research
GERDAT  -  Groupement d'Etudes et de Recherche pour le Developpement de
I'Agronomie Tropicale
GOR     -  Government of Rwanda
GTZ     -  German bilateral aid agency
IARCs   -  International Agricultural Research Centers
ICRAF   -  International Council for Research in Agro-forestry
IDRC    -  International Development Research Center
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFCC    -  Institut Francais du Cafe et du Cacao
IITA    -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
ILCA    -  International Livestock Center for Africa
INEAC   -  Institut National pour l'Etude Agronomique du Congo Belge
ISAR    -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
/Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda
ISNAR   -  International Service for National Agricultural Research
MINAGRI - Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
OFR/FSP -  On-farm research with a farming systems perspective
PNAP    -  Programme National pour l'Amglioration de la Ponme de Terre
PAK     -  Projet Agricole de Kibuye
PPF     -  (1)  Project Preparation Facility (Advance)
(2) Pilot Forestry Project
SSS     -  Selected Seed Service
UNR     - National University of Rwanda
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 to December 31
ISAR        -  January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Tables of Contents .    .     .......................... (i) to (iii)
Credit and Project Summary ............... .  . .... (iv) to (v)
I. BACKGROUND    .......................................        1
A. Project Background .... 0........... se ................  1
B. The Rural Sector .....................2 2
C.  Sector Issues and Strategy .................            4
D.  Agricultural Research and Related Services .........    6
II.  THE PROJECT       ............................................  7
A. The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy     7
Master Plan for Agricultural Research .... .......   8
B.  Summary Project Description ..............              9
C.  Detailed Features ......    ............................    12
Crop Research Programs ..    ........................  12
Farming Systems Research (FSR) Programs .........    15
Livestock Research Programs .....................    16
Forestry and Agro-forestry Research Programs        18
Strengthening ISAR's Headquarters ...............    18
Staffing ...................................................    20
Training ............. ............ ..... ....................    22
Visiting Scientists ..... * ..... ... . . . .......... ..... .    22
Agricultural Research Mascer Plan Preparation ...    22
Support for the Agronomic Faculty and Geographic
Department of the University of Rwanda (UNR) .    23
Th7s report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited Rwanda in
April 1984 comprising Messrs. Jan Weijenberg, Michel Imbert and Abdul Haji
(Bank), Mr. Rudolf Contant (ISNAR) and Mr. Guido Grysseels (ILCA).
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



(ii )
Page No.
On-farm Experimentation               ...                  23
Research Station Development and Civil Works  ....    23
Vehicles and Equipment         ..........................  24
Cartography .            .........................        24
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .....        .......................   25
A.  Cost Estimates .....................................          25
B.  Proposed Financing                .....................       28
C. Financial Implications and Budget Procedures and
Reviews . ............................                     29
D.  Procurement and Disbursement .......................          30
E.  Accounting Procedures         ..............................  32
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..................    ...       .      34
A.  General Management * *............... ... .-- 34
B.  Research Management ....................a...   36
C.  Internal and External Research Program Review   ......    37
D.  Station Management ......       ...........................   37
E.  Reporting * ..... e, ....                              , *   38
F.  Research Master Plan Preparation            ..............    39
G.  Research-Extension Liaison    .........................       40
R.  Civil Works .............. .......... .................       40
I.  J.mplementatetn Schedule                     .......          41
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....       ........................   41
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS
AND RECOMMTNDATIONS .............................              44
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
Table 2.1:  Research Staff Requirements ...*          ..............  21
Table 2.2:  Civil Works and Equipment Requirements ... ......    25
Table 3.1:  Summary Project Costs ..........................          27
Table 3.2:  Proposed Project Financing ..............      o......    28
Table 3.3:  Procurement Procedures        .    ........................  31



(iii,
Page No.
SUPPORTING ANNEXES, TABLES, CHARTS AND MAP
Annexes and Tables:
Annex  1 - Sector and Sub-sector Background ........          48
I. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION TRENDS ..........   48
Table 1: Trends in Food Crop Production,
Acreage and Yields   .........   49
Table 2: Export Crops - Production,
Acreage and Yields   .........   50
Table 3: Trends in Real Producer Prices
for Export Crops    ...........   51
Table 4: Trends in Livestock Production     51
II. STRUCTURE AND CURRENT STATUS OF
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  . ................   52
III. CURRENT STATUS OF AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION,
EXTENSION AND SEED PRODUCTION   ........    56
Annex  2 - Crop Research Program Descriptions ... eo.oo ....  60
Annex  3 - Responsibilities and Qualifications of Key
Personnel  * .         ......................... ......   62
Annex  4 - Outline of Duties of the Executive Architects .    75
Annex  5 - Training Scholarships ...... o ................*    77
Annex  6 - Table 1 - ISAR's Balance Sheet ............. .    78
Table 2 - ISAR's Income and Expenditure
ASccount   ................ .............................  79
Annex  7 - Table 1 - Project Expenditures by Category in
Constant Prices ................    80
Table 2 - Project Expenditures by Category In
Current Prices ..............    81
Table 3 - Project Expenditures by Category
and Component in Constant Prices    82
Annex  8 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ...........    83
Annex 9 - Estimated Internal Rates of Return to
Agricultural Research Expenditures .........    84
Annex 10 - Selected Data and Documents Available in the
Project  File   ........ .  .  ..................... *   .. ......     .  85
Charts:
Chart  1 - ISAR's Organization .................... .......    87
Chart  2 - Implementation Schedule ............ ...........    88
Map:
IBRD Map 18308



(iv)
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Rwandese Republic
Amount:          SDR 11.7 million (US $11.5 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Beneficiary:     Ministry of Agriculture, ISAR (Agriculture Research
Institute of Rwanda)
Project
Description:  (i)  Objectives and Content:  The Project would constitute
a first phase of a long-term support program to strengthen
the national agricultural research in Rwanda, and to make
agricultural research activities more responsive and
applicable to the needs and constraints of the producers.
The Project would consist of: the development of a
long-term master plan for agricultural research, including
a national seed multiplication and distribution policy and
a long-term manpower development plan; support of ongoing
research programs; institutional development of ISAR
(Rwanda's national research organization) through
reinforcement and reorganization of research effortb, the
expansion of farming systems and on-farm research, better
linkages between research and extension activities, and
the improvement of research management; development,
rehabilitation and equipping of research station
facilities; and other essential agricultural and
laboratory equipment; provision of a soils map of Rwanda;
and support to the Faculty of Agriculture and to the
Department of Geography of the University of Rwanda to
increase the research capabilities of students and
faculty.
(ii) Benefits: Benefits would include strengthening of
Rwanda's agricultural research efforts, which in turn are
a prerequisite for sustained agricultural development. By
strengthening individual research programs and setting
them in the context of a longer-term master plan, the
Project would assist in directing research to priority
areas, adapting it to Rwanda's needs, and coordinating
external assistance amongst all donors funding
agricultural research in Rwanda.



(v)
(iii) Risks: Delays in upgrading research staff and/or
their recruitment could slow down the Project's
execution. Incomplete development of linkages between
research and extension could delay diffusion of newly
generated technologies and their impact at farm level.
Estimated Project Costs: /a
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
Capital costs                                        2.1      3.6       5.7
Research staff expenditure                           1.1       1.1      2.2
Operating costs                                      3.8       2.5      6.3
Base cost                                            7.0       7.2     14.2
Physical contingencies                               0.4      0.4       0.8
Price contingencies                                  1.9       1.1      3.0
Total Project costs                                  9.3       8.7     18.0 /b
Financing plan:
Government                                           5.1      0.2       5.3
ISAR                                                 0.6      0.6       1.2
IDA                                                  3.6       7.9     11.5
Total                                                9.3       8.7     18.0
Estimated disbursements:                           IDA Fiscal Years
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
-  - US$ millions                  -
Annual                                 1.2    2.0    2.3    2.7    2.4    0.9
Cumulative                             1.2    3.2    5.5    8.2   10.6   11.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map:              IBRD 18308
/a Import duties would not be levied on the Project; base costs are at
January 1984 prices and include 5 percent taxes on civil works, locally
procured equipment and operating costs (US $0.4 million).
/b Including an advance of US $687,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility.



RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In June 1981, an RMEA mission suggested to the Minister of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry the idea of holding a seminar on
agricultural research in Rwanda. It anpeared that research, which had in
the past concentrated mainly on export crops, had developed few technical
recommendations on food crops which were sufficiently attractive to farmers
to be adopted. As a consequence, research has had little impact on food
crop production. Concerned that the situation was blocking rural
development projects, the Government supported the idea of a seminar to
bring together Rwandan and foreign research staff and technicians. The
objective of the seminar was to discuss the problems of Rwandan
agriculture, in particular food crops, and to define a research strategy
which would re-orient future research programs to national priorities and
to the real needs of the farmers.
1.02      In November 1981, the Government of Rwanda (the Government)
formally requested the assistance of the International Service for National
Agricultural Research (ISNAR) to prepare an analysis of the existing
agricultural research system. The ISNAR report 1/, which focuses mainly
on the reorganization of the research system, was issued in December 1982,
after having been extensively discussed with and broadly approved by the
Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. The seminar took place
from February 5 to 12, 1983, with about 150 participants from Rwanda, the
International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs) and aid agencies,
including the Bank. The Bank mission which participated in the seminar
developed preliminary proposals for follow-up. Subsequently, a US $687,000
advance was granted under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF No. P250)
to help finance preparation costs. These included short term consultant
services, the recruitment through ISNAR of a financial director and a
research programmer for the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(ISAR), the preparation of architectural plans for research,
infrastructure, rehabilitation and constrtction, and a financial audit of
ISAR.
1/ "Le Systame National de Recherche Agricole au Rwanda" (decembre 1982).



-2-
1.03      A preparation team spent four weeks in the field in May/June 1983
and made detailed recommendations to the Government on project orientation,
scope and further preparation. These recommendations were discussed with
Government and ISAR in September 1983 and agreements were reached on the
broad outlines of a 3-year Agricultural Research Project. In the meantime,
detailed working documents were prepared by ISNAR's staff and Bank
consultants on crops, livestock and farming systems research,
infrastructure, rehabilitation and construction, equipment requirements and
research documentation. In November/December 1983, a final preparation
mission of Bank and ISNAR staff discussed in detail the substance of the
research programs to be undertaken over the project period and reached
agreement in principle on project content. By the end of March 1984, the
following were available: architectural sketch plans and cost estimates
for research infrastructure, rehabilitation and construction, the financial
audit of ISAR, and an additional working document on an agro-forestry
research strategy prepared by the International Council for Research in
Agro-forestry (ICRAF). An IDA appraisal mission, supplemented by ISNAR and
International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA), visited Rwanda in April
1984. Upon completion of detailed architectural designs, negotiations were
held in Washington in December 1984.
B. The Rural Sector
1.04      General.  Rwanda is a landlocked country covering an area of
approximately 26,000 km2. The topography is hilly to mountainous with
elevation and rainfall increasing from east to west. The country is
characterized by a wide diversity in agro-ecological situations and
corresponding farming systems. The western part (Lake Kivu), the central
high plateau and the northern volcanic highland areas have the highest
agricultural potential, and also the highest population density (300 to 600
inhabitants per square kilometer of usable land) 2/. The semi-arid
eastern savannah, traditionally a grazing area sparsely populated, is
increasingly being settled as a result of the recent control of the tsetse
fly and mounting population pressures elsewhere in the country. About half
the total area is currently exploitable for agricultural purposes. Of
this, 50% is planted in food crops: beans, sweet potatoes, cassava, beer
banana and sorghum (and more recently, potatoes, maize and peas). About 5%
is under export or industrial crop cultivation - mainly coffee, but also
tea - and approximately 40% is used as pasture land, wood lots and fallow.
Rapidly growing population pressure (3.6% per annum growth rate in 1982)
has resulted in an expansion of the area under cultivation at the expense
of forested areas, grazing lands and the practice of fallow. Declining
land availability has forced an intensification of agriculture through
double cropping. Productivity per hectare may be falling as a result of
increased cultivation of marginal lands and decreasing soil fertility due
to intensification and erosion in some fragile areas. Population pressure
2/ Third Development Plan (1982-86) estimates for 1981.



-3-
has also led to a diminishing average in farm size, with more than half of
all farm families occupying less than I hectare. Average rural family
income is equivalent to about US $550 (US $70 per capita). With its
present growth rate, the population may sooner or later outgrow availahle
food resources and further increase unemployment. The project addresses
only one aspect of this long-term problem in aiming at sustainable
increases in food production. A population, health and nutrition project,
presently under preparation, would begin to address other aspects of the
fundamentally linked problems of dynamic population growth and dilution of
economic gains. Through its emphasis on food crop research the project is
geared to counter increasing poverty and to promote production, nutrition
and better standards of living.
1.05      Agriculture in the Economy. The agricultural sector is the most
important contributor to the national economy. Its share of GDP at current
prices has averaged about 46% over the last five years with subsistence
agriculture accounting for an estimated 80% of this. In 1981, agricultural
products represented 79X of the total value of exports, with coffee alone
accounting for 60% and tea for 10%.
1.06      Up to the present, food crop production appears to have kept pace
with population growth, roughly maintaining national food
self-sufficiency. Nevertheless, some dependence has been developing on
imports of certain types of food products (wheat, rice, salt, oils, etc.).
Food imports (food aid excluded) averaged about 9% of total recorded
imports during 1977-80. Food aid contributed mainly by United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), EEC and the World Food
Program (UNDP) was estimated at about 7,000 tons in 1980 and 11,000 tons in
1982 (essentially grain flour, oil and powdered milk).
1.07      National statistics indicate that total agricultural output
expanded at an average of 3.2% per ai,num during the period 1969-74 and
accelerated to 5.8% per annum for the period 1974-81, due to a temporary
rise in the world market price of coffee in the late 70s and a significant
inflow of foreign assistance and favorable weather conditions. This rate
of growth, however, is no longer sustainable. The economy is facing a
period of unprecedented constraints, both physical and technical at the
farm level and financial and institutional at the national (governmental)
level. There is not much scope for expansion of cultivated area in the
future, and therefore increases in production must come essentially from
intensification of production at the farm level. On the national level,
the current market forecast for Rwanda's major export crops is not
favorable, and economic recession in the principal donor countries has
resulted in aid cutbacks and uncertainty in the level of future
concessionary aid.
1.08      Production Trends.  As suggested by production data provided in
Annex 1, food crop production increased by about 50% during the last ten
years, with growth coming mainly from an expansion in the area under
cultivation of about 40X. Over that period, and except for sweet potatoes,
yields of most food crops have remained stable or have decreased. Because



-4-
of population growth and limited land availability, cattle herd size is
declining and there are indications of gradual replacement of cattle by
more efficient transformers such as small ruminants, pigs and chicken. The
country's natural forest resources are endangered by growing pressure for
cropping land and by lack of adequate protection. Natural forest reserves
cover 6.5% of the total land and are estimated to he declining at a rate of
5Z per annum. Reforestation is actively being promoted by the Government.
1.09      Although export crops contribute only about 5% of GDP and occupy
less than 5% of the total cultivated area, they constitute the major source
of foreign exchange earnings for the country. The area under export crops
increased by 45% from 1970 to 1980. Coffee represents 75X of the area
under export crops and is now spreading to areas considered marginal for
its cultivation. Production has remained fairly stable over recent years,
resulting in exports of between 15,000 to 18,000 tons of green coffee,
short of Rwanda's current quota under the International Coffee Agreement
(25,400 tons). In the past, the emphasis in research and production has
been on yield maximization rather than quality improvement. The area under
tea cultivation has increased steadily from about 1,600 ha in 1970 to 7,800
hasin 1981. The crop has no major problems or diseases that would require
extensive research. The quality of tea is at present among the best in the
world. Production of pyrethrum and cinchona has remained limited and
erratic in the past and their future is highly uncertain (development of
cheaper synthetic substitutes).
C. Sector Issues and Strategy
1.10      A review of the agricultural sector conducted by the Bank was the
subject of discussions (November 1983) with the Government, and its main
conclusions and proposals for priority actions were agreed upon. The
analysis suggests two overall objectives. First, an agricultural strategy
for Rwanda should focus on national food self-sufficiency in view of a
rapidly expanding population. This is a priority objective of the
Government's Third Development Plan (1982-86) and is also at the center of
the recently published Food Strategy Document, prepared jointly hy EEC and
the Government. Second, agricultural exports, which account for a critical
portion of Rwanda's foreign exchange, must be sustained and expanded with
a focus on improving quality.
1.11      These two objectives can best be achieved through a broad based
growth in production, with the expected increases likely to result mainly
from intensification of production. Priority actions to promote
intensification include the generation and distribution of new and improved
technologies, which are urgently needed and should be attractive to
farmers. The priorities for action, therefore, should be in developing and
strengthening agricultural research, agricultural extension and the
production and distribution of inputs. Concnrrently, it is essential to
maintain, and if possible, to improve the country's agricultural land.
Land, which is Rwanda's most important productive capital, is increasingly
being threatened by declining fertility and erosion.



-5-
1.12      Previous Bank Group Involvement.  IDA lending for the rural
sector has amounted to US $80.9 million for seven operations, as follows:
(i) four area development projects in the eastern savannah zone were
financed by Credits 439 RW (US $3.8 million 1974), 668 RW (US $14.0 million
1977), 937 RW (US $8.8 millin 1980) and 1283 RW (US $16.5 million 1983);
(ii) two area development projects in the Lake Kivu and Zaire-Nile divide
zones financed by Credits 1039 RW (US $21.0 million 1981) and 1126 RW (US
$15.0 million 1981); and (iii) one more narrowly focussed (cinchona)
agricultural development project financed by Credit 656 RW (US $1.8 million
1977). Through these projects, the Bank has been involved in development
efforts in several ecological zones covering a broad spectrum of regional
development activities in all of the major sub-sectors, food crops, export
crops (coffee and cinchona), forestry and livestock.
1.13      Performance Evaluation.  To date the Mutara Agricultural
Development Project - Phase I (Credit 439 RW) is the only project for which
both a project completion report and a PPAR (Sec. M81-570, 1981) are
available. Completion reports for the Cinchona (Credit 656 RW) and
Bugesera Gisaka Migongo - Phase I (Credit 668 RWi) Projects are under
preparation. Even though the economic impact of these early projects was
marginal in that they did not result in the expected increase in
agricultural production, substantial achievements have been realized in the
areas of infrastructure development and the establishment of a core of
technical and managerial cadres, and relatively efficient administrative
and financial control systems.
1.14      The experience accumulated in these and other ongoing IDA
supported projects points to a number of common issues which tend to affect
project performance: (i) insufficient knowledge of Rwanda's complex
farming systems and therefore weakness in the design of appropriate
technical packages; (it) lack of training and experience of Rwandese
management; (iii) poor statistical base preventing adequate monitoring of
project progress; and (iv) insufficient emphasis on financial matters (cost
recovery and recurrent cost financing). In addition, inadequate budget
resources, unclear and sometimes inconsistent sub-sector policies and
investment criteria, and poor coordination of donor supported activities
are serious constraints to achieving agricultural development objectives.
1.15      Sector Lending Strategy.  Based on these lessons of experience
and within the context of the sector strategy outlined above, the Bank is
proposing to focus its lending strategy over the next few years on support
for the following priority areas: (i) the development of Government
agricultural services through the strengthening of national systems in the
fields of agricultural research, agricultural and veterinary extension, and
eventually agricultural credit; (ii) the development of the private sector
in service areas (marketing, input supply and agro-industry) which the
Government is unable to provide efficiently; (iii) the development of
export crops (e.g. coffee and tea); (iv) the coordination of activities
combining erosion control, reforestation and agricultural development; (v)
the strengthening of sectoral management through improved agricultural
planning, project preparation, monitoring and evaluation, and financial
budgeting and control; and (vi) the identification of training priorities,
particularly in the area of public sector management.



-6-
D. Agricultural Research and Related Services
1.16      Agricultural Research.  L'Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du
Rwanda (ISAR) created after independence in 1962 is responsible for
agricultural and livestock research. Most of ISAR's income is derived from
Government budgetary allocations (equivalent to US $640,000 in 1982) and
sales of its products (US $370,000). Through 1981, ISAR was supported
mainly by Belgian aid and received limited funds from International
Development Research Center (IDRC-Canada) for research on sorghum,
triticale and oil seed crop breeding. The Swiss government provides
assistance in forestry, and coffee and some food crop research is supported
under the Lake Kivu Coffee and Food Crop Project (Credit 1066 RW). ISAR
manages seven research stations and employs about 1,000 workers, 35
technicians and 16 full time Rwandese research workers (of whom only one
holds a PhD).
1.17      Four technical departments cover:  crops (including trees),
animal production, laboratory investigations (including plant protection)
and environmental improvement. ISAR's research efforts have resulted in
improving husbandry standards for industrial crops, particularly tea and
coffee. ISAR has also introduced new bean and soybean varieties and trials
are underway covering several new maize, sweet potato, wheat and triticale
varieties. It has worked on blight resistant potato and virus resistant
manio- varieties and introduced grafted avocado trees.
1.18      In general, however, ISAR's program has lacked socio-econodic
studies of farm systems and adaptive trials on farmers" fields. Research
efforts have been conducted in isolation with few links to the traditional
farming context. These problems are beginning to be addressed and
intercropping trials of common crop mixtures are now being carried out at
the Rubona station (ISAR's current headquarters). Two programs are under
way with a decided focus on farming systems: one with French assistance in
the Zaire-Nile divide region, and the other financed under the BGM II
Project (Credit 1283 RW) executed under an agreement between ISAR and
IITA.  A third program, the Farming Systems Improvement Project, to be
financed by USAID for the middle and high altitude region of the Rwerere
station in the northwest, is under preparation.
1.19      Over the last ten years, ISAR has intensified its collaboration
with the IARCs of the Consultative Group for International Agricultural
Research (CGIAR) system: International Potato Center (CIP) continues to
support potato research; International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA) is assisting with research on cassava and sweet potatoes;
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) is cooperating in
wheat and triticale research, and may extend its involvement in maize
research through the Birunga Maize Project financed by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD); and International Center for
Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) started in 1983 with Swiss financing an
amtbitious expansion of the bean research program.



-7-
'. 20     Other Agricultural Services.  The shortage of trained manpower in
agriculture is a vital constraint in Rwanda, but some important efforts to
provide more and better training are underway. The Agricultural Faculty of
the University of Rwanda in Butare was created in 1977 and turns out 12 to
14 graduates annually. Students graduate after six years (three years
general science education and three years in general agronomy and related
subjects) and must go abroad for further specialization. Technical
training in agriculture and veterinary sciences for A2 level staff is
provided in three schools (a fourth one is under construction). A3 level
foremen and schooled workers are trained in Rwanda's 180 Centres
d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal Integre (CERAI).
1.21      The agricultural extension system is generally weak and
ineffective: agricultural technology and extension messages insufficiently
adapted to farmers, uncoordination of efforts among development projects,
inappropriate extension methods (often coercive), insufficient training and
irregular supervision, etc. However, there is a growing awareness of the
situation and a few promising initiatives are being tested. A project
aiming to introduce a national extension system and provide for improved
management and training is presently under preparation for possible Bank
financing.
1.22      ISAR is involved with the production of breeder seeds.  Seed
multiplication and distribution is the responsibility of the Selected Seed
Service (SSS) of MINAGRI. The present situation is characterized by: (i)
insufficient collaboratton between ISAR and SSS; (ii) lack of trained staff
and infrastructure; (iii) no formalized seed control and certification
system; (iv) insufficient multi-location trials; and most important (v)
poor quality of breeder seeds.
II. THE PROJEC_
A. The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy
2.01      The Government of Rwanda has decided to reorient its agricultural
research effort to improve its efficiency, so that research will contribute
to the success of the Government's development strategy in the rural
sector. Research is to be made more problem oriented - that is more
responsive and more applicable to the real constraints of the agricultural
producer -- communications between research workers and the development and
extension staff of MINAGRI and individual projects in the rural sector are
to be intensified. Focussing research on problem areas will be pursued by
strengthening ISAR through the establishment of nationally coordinated
mustidisciplinary research teams on priority commodities and regional
agricultural production systems. Following the publication of ISNAR's
analysis of the current agricultural research system and the February 1983
Seminar (paras. 1.01 and 1.02), and realizing that agricultural research
takes many years to bear fruit, requiring a long term commitment, it was



-8-
decided to limit a first phase project to three years to develop a long
term master plan for agricultural research, a national certified seed
multiplication and distribution policy, and a long term manpower
development plan. To reach these broad objectives the Project would:
ti) provide for technical assistance for MINAGRI to develop a
long term national agricultural research and certified
seed multiplication strategy;
(ii)   replace the existing fragmented disciplinary research
approach by a nationally coordinated multidisciplinary
team approach along commodity problem area lines;
(iii)   strengthen and coordinate the ongoing and planned
regional farming systems research programs;
(iv)   strengthen research management, programming, evaluation
and review through reorganization of ISAR, and
institution of more appropriate procedures for
formulation of research programs and their follow-up;
(v) establish a documentation system at a later stage to be
extended with an information system for the dissemination
of research results;
(vi)   strengthen capabilities for evaluation and application of
new technology, including more effective linkages with
extension; and
(vii)   strengthen linkages with external technical assistance
organizations, including the IARCs.
Following the February 1983 Seminar, the Government of Rwanda endorsed the
above research philosophy.
Master Plan for Agricultural Research
2.02      During the three years (1985-87) of project implementation, a
master plan for national agricultural research would be developed with a 15
to 20 years' perspective within the framework of a well defined and
realistic agricultural sector strategy. The master plan preparation
process would:
(i) define an agricultural research strategy based on a clear
definition of specific research objectives and
priorities;
(ii)   define possible research coordination mechanisms with
neighboring countries with a view to limit the total
costs of research for Rwanda through the establishment of
regional multidisciplinary commodity research teams,



- 9 -
exchange of information on research results and
coordination of research programming to avoid
duplication;
(iii)   propose procedures/strategies for the development of
effective links between research and extension services
of both MINAGRI and development projects;
(iv)   develop a long term manpower development plan for ISAR,
including satisfactory recruitment and promotion (career
development) procedures;
(v)   develop adaptations to ISAR's organizational structure to
enable it to execute the defined research strategy;
(vi)   propose a national information system for the
dissemination of research results and extension themes;
and
(vii)   prepare a follow-up project (including staff,
infrastructure and equipment requirements) as a first
phase of the execution of the research master plan.
The master plan would ultimately serve as a framework to which various
donor financed projects and IARCs would contribute rather than compete.
B. Summary Project Description
2.03      Research Programs.  Partly as a result of the February 1983
seminar and further project preparation, a number of new research programs
have been initiated with the contribution of major donors. To enable ISAR
to continue worthwhile ongoing and new research activities before a long
term research master plan would be available, the Project would support
ISAR over a period of three years to implement:
(i)   three production systems programs:  in the Bugesera
region for the semi-arid eastern part of the country
(financed under the second BGM Project, Credit 1283 RW,
executed by IITA), in the Zaire-Nile divide for the high
altitude regions (financed by Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) and FED, executed by Groupement
d'Etudes et de Recherche pour le Developpement de
l'Agronomie Tropicale (GERDAT), and in the medium and
high altitude regions of the North-West (financed by
USAID, executed by the University of Arkansas);
(ii) nine nationally coordinated multidisciplinary commodity
research programs on food crops: beans (financed by
Switzerland, executed by CIAT); peas; soybeans and



- 10 -
groundnuts; maize (partly financed under the IFAD Birunga
Maize Project, possibly executed by CIMMYT); sorghum and
millet; wheat and triticale; sunflower; cassava and sweet
potato (financed by IDRC, executed by IITA); and potatoes
(executed and partly financed by CIP);
(iii)   two nationally coordinated programs on cash crops:
coffee and tea (partly financed under the ongoing Lake
Kivu Coffee Improvement and Food Crop Project, Credit
1126 RW);
(iv)   two programs on fruits:  bananas and avocado;
(v)   continuation of the breeding program for local cattle
(with assistance from ILCA);
(vi)   one program on animal nutrition (assisted by ILCA);
(vii)   one program on small ruminants (financed under the
ongoing Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project, Credit
1039 RW);
(viii)   continuation of the forestry research program (financed
by Switzerland); and
(ix)   the start-up of an agro-forestry program (financed by
Switzerland).
The majority of the above programs are initiated and continue to be funded
by other donors and ongoing Bank projects. Of the 21 programs, 16 are
ongoing and four are starting-up (the USAID funded production systems
program at Rwerere, the IFAD funded Birunga Maize Project, the
Swiss-financed agro-forestry program and the small ruminants program
financed under Credit No  1039 RW).  Only the animal nutrition program
would be initiated under the project.
2.04      In particular, the Project would include:
(i)   assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Forestry for coordination of the preparation of a long
term agricultural research master plan (15 to 20 years),
including a seed control and certification system and
assistance to the development of a national agricultural
information system;
(ii)   the reorganization of ISAR into four research departments
(Crop Production, Environmental Studies and Production
Systems, Animal Production, and Forestry and
Agro-forestry), and a Financial and Administrative
Service to make research problem-oriented through the
introduction of multidisciplinary research;



- 11 -
(iii)   reinforcement of research programming, budgeting and
financial management through technical assistance (two
expatriate staff of which one will be provided by ISNAR)
and regular financial audits;
(iv)   technical assistance for priority research programs
(three expatriate scientists) 3/;
(v)   establishment of an annual research program review system
and a donor coordinating mechanism;
(vi)   short and medium term overseas training (ranging from one
month to two years, both in Africa and elsewhere) for
Rwandese scientists in special subjects;
(vii)   infrastructure rehabilitation of four research stations
(Rubona-Songa, Karama, Ruhengeri-Kinigi and Tamira),
construction of a liaison office in Kigali and housing
for additional research staff;
(viii)   provision of vehicles, agricultural, laboratory and
office equipment, and furniture;
(ix)   provision of equipment and research supplies for the
Faculty of Agroromy and the Department of Geography
of the University of Rwanda for research by students and
Rwandese faculty staff members in collaboration with
ISAR; and
Cx)   support for vehicle and tractor operating costs, research
supplies, and infrastructure and equipment maintenance.
This first phase project would assist ISAR over a three year period, the
time deemed necessary to complete the research master plan, to prepare ISAR
f or the full execution of the master plan and to prepare a follow on
project consisting of a second (five year) tranche of the master plan.
During this phase, the project would aim at the consolidation of mostly
ongoing research in one national system throuigh reinforcement of ISAR and
improving coordination amongst all donors funding agricultural research in
Rwanda.
3/ A senior agricultural economist specialized in farming systems
research, an animal production systems specialist and an animal
nutrition scientist.



- 12 -
C. Detailed Features
Crop Research Programs
2.05      A detailed description of the various research operations for
each of the crop research programs is given in Annex 2 and the
Implementation Volume. Most of the programs will be limited under this
first phase project to varietal screening, comparative trials (both on-farm
and on-station) and research on identified problems. Cross breeding may be
required in the future for beans, maize, sorghum, triticale, cassava and
sweet potatoes. For many of the crops, the problems are related to on-farm
post-harvest technology (storage, oil extraction, milling, brewing,
nutritional value and organoleptic characteristics), for which ISAR is
not equipped and requirements for research will be studied under the master
plan. One of the first actions to be undertaken under the Project will be
to purify the breeder seed of existing varieties of food crops that have
proven in the past to outperform farmers' traditional varieties. To
improve seed multiplication and distribution under a possible follow-up
project, proposals would be developed by MINAGRI for a quality control and
seed certification system, including the required legislation. The Project
includes in the framework of the master plan preparation (para. 2.39)
technical assistance to assist MINAGRI in this task. To regain farmer
confidence, it is of the utmost importance that farmers car. count on the
quality of seeds they buy.
2.06      Beans Research Program.  The main thrust of the program would be
to find or develop varieties of both bush and staked beans that outperform
the traditional varieties under the prevailing cultivation practices and
are adapted to a wide range of agro-ecological conditions. Farmers
intercrop up to three varieties of beans with cereals or bananas or other
crops, a practice which probably developed to avoid risk. Screening of
varieties would as much as possible be done under the same conditions. For
staked beans, the emphasis of the program would be on methods of staking
with crops such as maize and sorghum, because of the increasing difficulty
in finding stake material as a result of deforestation. Under the Project,
FAO would survey the nitrogen fixation characteristics of the traditional
varieties under various soil and climatic conditions.
2.07      Pea Research Program.  Peas are traditionally grown in an
extensive manner on fallow fields where the natural vegetation serves as
support.  It is an important high altitude crop where beans can no longer
be grown. The area under peas has steadily decreased with the decline of
the fallow practice. One of the challenges for research will be to find a
way to intensify pea production in using other crops as support. Another
important aspect of pea research would be to develop a rhizobium seed
dressing system to improve yields.
2.08      Soybeans Research Program.  The main problems farmers are faced
with when growing soybeans are a limited market, bird damage at
germination, low germination rates and lack of knowledge of methods of



- 13 -
utilization. Bird damage may be limited through intercropping. The
reasons for the low germination rates are not fully understood and will
therefore be the subject of a special study. Soybeans are presently sold
for fodder and a small quantity for the oil mill in Nyabisindu. Research
under the Project would be extended to investigate available on-farm
technology to improve preparation of soybeans for human consumption.
2.09      Groundnuts Research Program.  The main thrust of groundnut
research would be to find drought resistant varieties for the eastern part
of the country. Since groundnuts are mostly grown on poor soils, the
economic effects of limited phosphate fertilization will he investigated
(Karama station).
2.10      Maize Research Program.  Maize is a crop of growing importance.
Whereas sorghum covered in the early 1970s approximately 20% of the area
under food crops, its share had dropped to 15% by the end of the decade
(Annex 1). Over the same period, maize increased its share slightly from
7.2% to 7.5Z. Maize is most important in the high altitude (over 1,900 m)
regions of the north-west and below 1,500 m. One of the first priorities
of the maize research program will be to restore the purity of the breeder
seed of the Katumani (low lands) and Bambu (middle altitude) varieties.
However, these cultivars are not ideal and further research will be
directed towards high yielding, disease resistant short stalk varieties
with a shorter growing cycle and yellow grain. The main thrust of the
program would be to develop varieties suitable for intensive cultivation in
the north-western high altitude regions. This part of the program may be
executed by CIMMYT with IFAD financing (Birunga Maize Project) within the
overall framework of the national maize research program. Agronomic trials
will emphasize intercropping and the use of maize stalks as natural stakes
for bean cultivation.
2.11      Sorghum Research Program.  Yield improvements in the highlands
can probably only be obtained through crossing of traditional cultivars
with varieties introduced from elsewhere. For the lower altitudes in the
eastern part of the country, chances of finding higher yielding varieties
through introductions from elsewhere are much higher. However, since 90%
of present sorghum production is transformed into beer, the future accent
of sorghum research would be on improved on-farm post-harvest technology
for both beer and flour production and storage.
2.12      Wheat/Triticale Research Program.  Home consumption of wheat is
increasing in the main production areas (the high altitude regions of
Ruhengeri and Gikongoro prgfectures). At the same time, demand is
increasing in the urban areas. Recently, ISAR has identified two new rust
resistant wheat varieties (in collaboration with CIDMMT with IDRC
financing). Like elsewhere in the world, the emergence of new rust strains
obliges breeders to introduce continuously new cultivars. The
wheat/triticale program will mainly consist of the continuation of varietal
screening in collaboration with CIMMYT, the study of cultural methods and
on-farm fertilization trials.



- 14 -
2.13      Sunflower Research Program.  Since 1977 ISAR has conducted a
screening program on a small scale to study the possibilities of
introducing an oil crop as a cash crop in the north-western high altitude
regions. The main problems encountered with sunflower so far are fungus
diseases, bird damage and lodging. Under the Project, past research
results would be analyzed and variety screening for adaptability will be
continued on a limited scale.
2.14      Cassava Research Program.  Cassava is increasingly used as a
reserve staple in the central plateau and semi-arid regions where it is
harvested when needed. In the marginal zones recently brought into
cultivation, cassava is gradually becoming an important cash crop. The
main problems encourtered in cassava cultivation are diseases (mosaic,
bacterial wilt and cercosporiose) and the green spider mite (Mononychellus
tanajoa). Research will therefore concentrate on disease and mite
resistant varieties in collaboration with IITA with IDRC financing.
2.15      Sweet Potato Research Program.  In terms of production volume,
sweet potatoes are the second most important food crop after bananas (Annex
1) with its relative share in terms of area planted rapidly increasing.
Traditionally, farmers grow mixtures of local varieties in the same field
as a guarantee against climatological and disease hazards. Pure stand
varieties that gave superior results on station do not generally outperform
traditional varieties on farmers' fields. As for cassava, diseases
(viruses and anthracnose) and parasites (Cyclas spp. and Acraea acerata)
are major obstacles for production increases. Under the IDRC financed
tuber program in collaboration with IITA, research will be directed towards
disease and insect resistant variety screening in pure stands as well as
under intercropping conditions. In the future, polycross breeding with
local varieties may be be the only way to develop higher yielding clones.
2.16      Potato Research Program.  Potato research carried out since 1979
by Programme National pour l'Ainelioration de la Pomme de Terre (PNAP), with
Belgian financing in close collaboration with CIP, presents one of the
success stories of agricultural research in Rwanda. Since its inception,
PNAP has introduced and tested 9,000 different genetypes. In 1982, the
first five Rwanda potato varieties were formally recognized. A large part
of the program consists of seed potato production (190 tons in 1982).
Under the Project, PNAP will be entirely integrated in ISAR's research
structure. It will continue to be responsible for seed production of the
Sangema and Montsama varieties, and research will focus on disease
resistance (Pseudomonas soleanacearum, Phytophtora infestans and various
virus diseases), cultural practices and on-farm storage.  CIP will continue
its collaboration, but additional financing requirements would be covered
under the Project.
2.17      Coffee Research Program.  Mbirizi was the first coffee variety
introduced in Rwanda. For years the Jackson and Bourbon Mayagues 71 and
139 varieties have been successfully promoted to replace the Mbirizi
variety. Coffee research in Rubona was in the past very nmch oriented
towards yield improvement. More recently, Rwandan coffee quality (taste)



- 15 -
has declined for reasons which are not entirely clear (variety, cultural
practices and post-harvest technology (washing) ). Future research will
be directed towards quality improvement and will also include research on
cover crops to replace the present practice of mulching; research on
integrated pest management (Antestiopsis and rust control) including a
field survey to determine the importance of damage caused by Anthrachnose,
Antestiopsis and Stephanoderes, and multi-location trials on plantation
renewal methods. Much of this research is being financed under the Lake
Kivu Coffee and Food Crop Project (Credit 1126 Rt, Annex 1).
2.18      Tea Research Program.  Rwanda's tea quality is excellent and
yields are stable, but relatively low in the absence of the use of
fertilizers. Future research would concentrate on the economics of
fertilizer usage in the different ecological zones where tea is grown and
study, in particular, the use of legumes (green manure) as cover crops for
shade and as erosion control hedges.
2.19      Banana Research Program.  Beer bananas are the most important
cash crop for the Rwandese farmers. Only 10% to 15% of all bananas grown
in Rwanda are for cooking or table bananas, their consumption is however on
the increase. Under the Project, a modest start will be made with research
on beer and cooking bananas through an inventory by ecological region of
existing local varieties, beer brewing losses, major diseases and
parasites, and production characteristics. In the future, research should
be extended towards post-harvest technology for beer production, cultural
practices, intercropping and effects on soil structure, soil fertility and
erosion.  As part of the master plan preparation exercise, particular
attention would be given to regional cooperation in banana research.
2.20      Avocado Research Program.  Avocado is rapidly becoming an
important oil and food crop. The main problems are: a lack of quality
grafts, a lack of uniform rootstocks and a lack of adapted technology for
on-farm oil extraction. Under the Project, some limited support would be
provided for research on these problem areas. Under a follow-up project
responsibility for rootstock and graft production may be transferred to
SSS.
Farming Systems Research (FSR) Programs
2.21      Two programs of Farming Systems Research (FSR) with a Farming
Systems Perspective - OFR/FSP 4/ in CIMMYT terminology - are presently
executed by ISAR (Bugesera and Zaire-Nile divide). Further detailed
description of the various research operations for these programs is given
in the Implementation Volume. In principle, OFR/FSP consists of four
components:
4/ OFR/FSP stands for On-farm Research with a Farming Systems Perspective.



- 16 -
ti) an initial diagnostic survey to identify and quantify
rapidly technical, economical and social production
contraints; followed by
(ii) an analysis of agrarian production systems (by
homogeneous groups of target farmers) in the region
surveyed, leading to identification of main constraints
in their order of importance;
(iii)   testing of solutions to identified constraints, both
on-station and with farmers an their fields; and finally
(iv) pre-extension testing of new technology on farmers'
fields to familiarize extension agents with the new
techniques.
A third FSR program in the Rwerere region is under preparation for
execution by ISAR in collaboration with the University of Arkansas to be
financed by USAID. The ongoing Swiss financed Projet Agricole de Kibuye
(PAK), FAC financed Projet de Kigali-Est and German financed (GTZ)
Nyabisindu Project all have FSR elements and are executed as rural
development projects under MINAGRI responsibility. Under the Project, ISAR
would, through its Production Systems Department, establish closer working
relationships with these projects.
2.22      Bugesera OFR/FSP Program.  The constraints the farmers in the
Bugesera region are facing are related to low rainfall (800 to 1,000 mm),
poor soils and severe erosion hazards despite relatively moderate slopes.
The population consists of recent immigrants from overpopulated higher
rainfall areas who have adapted themselves remarkably well to their harsh
environment. Even though the OFR/FSP program has started only recently,
some urgent research operations have been identified. Following a more
detailed analysis of prevailing agrarian production systems, research would
concentrate on the integration of livestock and agriculture (stall feeding
and introduction of animal traction), soil fertility management, testing of
on-farm erosion control measures combined with intercropping and the
introduction of agro-forestry.
2.23      Zaire-Nile Divide OFR/FSP Program.  The principal production
problems in this high altitude area of recent immigrants are also soil
related: acidity, poor soil fertility and steep slopes. Research would be
directed towards integration of livestock and agriculture (sheep and goats,
and manure production), soil improvement measures (possible use of
travertine, a base rich rock), soil fertility management, and on-farm
erosion control measures combined with intercropping and the introduction
of agro-forestry.
Livestock Research Programs
2.24      Past livestock research has concentrated on breed improvement for
extensive meat production, and more recently, on intensive milk production



- 17 -
(Annex 1). Under the Project, livestock research would be reoriented away
from breed improvement for extensive grazing and more directed towards
integration of animal husbandry and agriculture, intensification and the
introduction of small ruminants. For this research, the Livestock Research
Department's staff would be reinforced with an animal production systems
expert, who would in close collaboration with the Production Systems
Department, guide component research on animal nutrition, small ruminants
and cattle breeding. As a condition of disbursement for infrastructure
investments for livestock research at Karama and Songa stations, ISAR would
enter into a formal agreement with ILCA. Under this agreement to he
financed under the Credit, ILCA would recruit two research scientists (an
animal production systems expert and an animal nutrition scientist) and
provide support and guidance for all the activities of the Animal
Production Department.
2.25      Animal Nutrition Research Program.  Experience with selected
local cattle or crossbreeds has shown mixed results, mainly because the
selected cows rarely outperform the non-selected ones under farmer
conditions. The bottleneck to increase milk and beef production is
invariably the lack of fodder required for high performance. With the
gradual reduction of Rwanda's grazing areas, the extension services
actively promote stall feeding of cows, which is only possible when the
farmer has sufficient land to feed the animals with agricultural
by-products and fodder crops. The objectives of the animal nutrition
research program would therefore be: (i) to determine the fodder and
by-product potential for the different farming systems occurring in Rwanda;
(ii) to introduce, screen and test various annual and perennial fodder
crops, both on-station and with the farmers; (iii) to study on-farm fodder
conservation; and (iv) in close collaboration with the agro-forestry
research program (para. 2.29) to study the use of fodder trees in the
farming system.
2.26      Small Ruminants Research Program.  With the decreasing farm
sizes, goats and sheep have been replacing cattle in the farming system, in
particular in the highlands where the traditional cattle grazing areas are
rapidly overtaken by crop cultivation (Annex 1).  The small ruminants
research program, for which a 300 ha station will be established under the
Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project (Credit 1039 RW), would be
preceded by a survey amongst farmers to study the role of small ruminants
in the farming system, and at the same time, identify animals that best
represent the characteristics of the local breeds. The on-station
selection progam of 500 sheep and 500 goats could also include some
imported breeds. The whole program, from the survey onwards, would be
supported by ILCA under the agreement referred to in para. 2.24.
2.27      Cattle Breeding Program.  ISAR proposed an extension of the
infrastructure (mainly drinking water supply and pasture improvement) at
the Karama station to extend further its breeding program for milk
production of the local Ankole breed of cattle. Similar programs elsewhere
in Africa have seldom led to useful results, mainly because the selected
cows rarely outperform the non-selected ones under farmer conditions. ISAR



- 18 -
agreed first to analyze their 20 years' non-treated data on cattle breeding
with the assistance of ILCA. An expert scientist on cattle breeding from
ILCA has visited Rwanda in July of 1984 and will advise on the future of
the breeding program. ISAR agreed that investments for extension of the
breeding program should only be undertaken if the outcome of the above
investigations was conclusively positive. Receipt by IDA of an independent
opinion by an expert scientist from ILCA on the usefulness of extending
ISAR's cattle breeding program is a condition of disbursements for
expenditures for civil works in Karama or Songa (paras. 2.24 and 2.42).
Forestry and Agro-forestry Research Programs
2.28      Until recently, forestry research has been handled by the Crops
Research Department. Under the Project, both forestry and agro-forestry
research would become the responsibility of a separate department. The
ongoing Swiss financed forestry research program described in Annex 1 would
continue.
2.29      Agro-forestry Research Program.  Following the agro-forestry
research strategy paper prepared by ICRAF (para. 1.03), ISAR has decided to
extend further its agro-forestry research. Under an agreement to be
negotiated prior to Credit effectiveness, ICRAF would provide from Nairobi
expert advice on research orientation and design, and training for Rwandan
scientists (para. 2.37). Continuation of Swiss financing for technical
assistance and operating costs for the entire forestry and agro-forestry
research program would he requested upon expiration of the current funding
agreement by the end of 1985. The agro-forestry program would be
undertaken in close collaboration with the Animal Production and Production
Systems Departments, and would focus on: (i) an inventory of the
agro-forestry systems of Rwanda; (ii) an evaluation of the available
biomass by photo interpretation; (iii) the optimal spacing of woody species
integrated in the farming system; (iv) the improvement of fodder
availability from low growing trees and shrubs; (v) research on the optimal
intercropping patterns of food crops and fruit trees for the higher
altitudes; and (vi) a study of the possibilities to develop beekeeping
through agro-forestry.
Strengthening ISAR's Headquarters
2.30      ISAR's headquarters would be strengthened through:
Ci)   establishment of a Research Programming and Evaluation
Unit directly attached to the Managing Director;
(ii)   reinforcement of the Financial and Administrative
Service;
(iii)   reinforcement of the Central Support Services:
documentation and publication, data processing and
statistics, and the central laboratories; and



- 19 -
(iv)   establishment, staffing, equipping and operation of a
full-time liaison office at Kigali.
2.31      The Research Programming and Evaluation Unit would be headed by a
Senior Research Programming and Evaluation Advisor responsible for: (i)
developing a uniform system within ISAR for effective programming,
direction, evaluation and overall management of research; (ii) developing
and operating a research progress monitoring and evaluation system; (iii)
preparing and coordinating internal and external research program reviews
(paras. 4.06 and 4.07) with regard to priority order, scientific and
technical soundness, and progress in implementation; and (iv) preparing
quarterly progress reports and a project completion report according to
guidelines to be agreed upon with IDA. The advisor has been recruited
under ISNAR's responsibility and has been in position since April 1984 with
PPF funding.
2.32      The Financial and Administrative Service would be headed by
ISAR's financial director, who has been recruited with the assistance of
ISNAR and has been in position since March 1984 with PPF funding. His
functions include: Ci) updating ISAR's accounts and gradually integrating
all accounts of research activities undertaken under ISAR's ultimate
responsibility, PNAP and research components of IDA financed projects 5/;
(ii) reviewing the necessity and practical implications for ISAR of
integrating the accounts of research related projects presently under
preparation (USAID FSR Project at Rwerere and IFAD Birunga Maize Project at
Ruhengeri/Kinigi); (iii) designing in close collaboration with the research
planning and programming advisor and gradually implementing a cost
accounting system that would ultimately permit budgeting and budget control
by research program and research station; (iv) preparing project financial
statements and ISAR's balance sheet including consolidated and detailed
annual budgets and quarterly cash flow projections (to be included in
quarterly progress reports); (v) designing and implementing sound financing
and management controls particularly with regard to fixed assets, accounts
receivable, accounts payable, inventories, stocks and receipts, equipment
maintenance and vehicle operating costs; and (vi) supervising the
disbursement records for the various donors and supervising all procurement
procedures. As part of the overall reorganization and refocussing, ISAR's
Financial and Administrative Service is to clearly distinguish between
research station management and operation which is the responsibilitv of
the station chief, and research program management which is the
responsibility of the national and regional research program coordinators
(paras. 4.05, 4.08 and 4.09).
2.33      The Central Support Services at Rubona, administratively under
the financial director, would he reinforced as follows:
51 Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project (Credit 1039 RW), Lake Liku
Coffee and Food Crop Project (Credit 1126 RW) and BGM II Project
(Credit 1283 RW).



- 20 -
(i)   The documentation and publication racilities would be
expanded through the purchase of some 800 technical and
scientific works, extension of the central library in
Rubona, installation of two small libraries cum
documentation units in Ruhengeri and Karama, purchase of
printing equipmint and training of a documentalist and a
librarian (para. 2.37).
(ii)   The central laboratories would be rehabilitated and part
of the equipment would be renewed, and management would
be improved through the design and introduction of an
effective cost accounting system (currently, a large part
of all plant and soil analyses are done for non-ISAR
customers).
(iii)   The data processing and statistics unit to be established
under the Project would, in the first instance, consist
of one person, an experienced biometrician who would be
responsible for: (i) the review of all experiment design
and on the job training of research staff in routine
experiment analysis, including the use of
micro-computers; (ii) the design of complex experiments
involving interacting functions; and (iii) the training
of research staff on data collection and presentation for
computer processing.
Staffing
2.34      ISAR would employ in nine different locationis by 1987 a total of
56 scientists (AO), nine senior scientific administrators (AO), 62 other
scientific staff (A1 and A2), 24 higher level administrative staff (A1 and
A.2), 202 lower level administrative staff and 858 agricultural staff (Table
2.1); 14 of them would be key staff: ISAR's Managing Director (Project
Manager); Senior Programming and Evaluation Advisor; five Department Heads
of the Crop Production, Environmental Studies and Production Systems,
Animal Production, Forestry and Agro-forestry Departments, and the
Financial and Administrative Service; Statistician/Biometrician, Chief of
the Data Processing and Statistics Unit; three senior scientists in the
Environmental Studies and Production Systems Department, farming systems
agronomist, agricultural economist and rural sociologist; senior animal
production systems specialist in the Animal Production Department;
documentalist; and Technical Liaison Officer (para. 4.14).  Assurances have
been obtained from Government that key pzoject staff would have
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and would be appointed for
periods which are appropriate to the demands of the research programs in
question to assure the necessary continuity for successful project
implementation. Detailed terms of reference for key staff are in Annex 3.
During negotiations, a clear understanding was reached with Government on
the number of staff appointments (A2 through AO) and the operating budget
allocations for the Project.



- 21 -
Table 2.1: Research Staff Rea irements /a
Researeh /b
posiLtions     -     Manryears /c
t progras                    1984   1987   Rwvndan  Expatriate   Total
Crops Research:
Beans                        2.60   3.55       3.15         6.90   10.05
Pea                           .35    .80       2.00            -    2.00
Soybeans/groundnuts          1.40   1.90       4.10         1.20    5.30
Maize                        1.50   2.85       2.45         6.00    8.45
Sorghum                      1.58   1.71       4.23          .90    5.13
Wheat/triticale              1.07   1.52       4.36            -    4.36
Sunflower/pyrethrum          1.00   1.21      3.53             -    3.53
Cassava/sweet potato         2.90   3.50       7.40         3.00   10.40
Potato                       3.70   3.95       8.75         3.00   11.75
Coffee/tea                   1.45   1.45       4.35            -    4.35
Bancns                        .85    .95       2.85            -    2.85
Avocado                       .60    .61       1.83            -    1.83
Sub-total                   19.00  24.00      49.00        21.00   70.00
Produetion Systems:
Central unit                 2.00   8.00      7.00         -9.00   16.00
Bugesera                     2.00   4.00      10.00         6.00   16.00
Zaire-Nile divide            1.00   5.00      11.00         6.00   17.00
Ruhengeri/KinIgI             1.00   1.00          -         1.00    1.00
FSIP                            -   3.00         -          3.00    3.00
Sab-tocal                    6.00  21.00     28.00         25.00   53.00
Livestock Research:
Aniual production systeme       -   1.00          -         3.00    3.00
Animal nutrltion             1.00   2.00       3.00         3.00    6.00
Small ruminants                 -   1.00       3.00            -    3.00
Cattle breeding              2.00   1.00       3.00            -    3.00
Sub-total                    3.00   5.00       9.00         6.00   15.00
Forestry and Agro-forestry:
Forestry research            3.00   3.00       6.00         3.00    9.00
Agro-forestry Program        2.00   3.00       6.00         3.00    9.00
Ssb-total                    5.00   6.00      12.00         6.00   18.00
Total                          33.00  56.00      98.00        58.00  156.00
By Station
Ribona                             19.45     32.00         19.00   51.00
Songs                                  -          -            -       -
Rahande                             6.00      12.00         6.00   15.00
Karaaa/Gashora                      9.55      16.00        12.00   28.00
Cisowu                              6.00      14.00         6.00   20.00
Gishwati                            1.00       3.00            -    3.00
Rahengeri/Kinigi                    6.07      6.00         12.00   18.00
Tamira                                .84      3.00            -    3.00
RJerere                             7.09      12.00         3.00   18.00
Total                                 56.00      98.00        58.00  156.00
/a  Excluding Department Heads. Station Chiefs - university graduates (AO
level) who are counted as administrative.
/b Unive rity graduates only (AO plus expatriates).
e Over three year project period (1985-87).



- 22 -
2.35      For seven of the 14 key staff, it is unlikely that suitable
candidates could be found within Rwanda; two have been recruited under IDA
financing (PPF), two would be provided under the USAID financed Farming
Systems Improvement Project (FSIP), one has heen recruited through CIAT
with Swiss financing and one would be recruited internationally through
ILCA and funded under the Project (the animal production systems
specialist).
2.36      Of the 56 scientist positions (Table 2.1), 29 would be filled by
Rwandan university graduates (AO level), 24 would be filled by expatriate
staff through the various ongoing donor funded research projects and three
would be recruited internationally and funded under the Project (the animal
production systems specialist, an animal nutrition/fodder crops specialist,
both through ILCA, and an agricultural economist specialized in OFR/FSP).
As a condition of Credit disbursement, Government would seek annually a
formal agreement on research staffing amongst aid agencies financing
agricultural research in Rwanda.
Training
2.37      ISAR would aim to have all its research worker positions
ultimately manned by M.Sc. or Ph.D. level scientists. M.Sc. and Ph.D.
level specialization is currently not available in Rwanda (Annex 3).
Scholarships for such training are available in sufficient numbers from
bilateral aid agencies. The Project would provide US $560,000 for
specialized training - 71 scholarships from one month to two years duration
have been identified and detailed in Annex 5. Training needs would be
annually reviewed by ISAR's management, ISAR's Board of Directors, aid
agencies and IDA. Under the Project, an amount of US S45,000 has been
allocated for a thorough independent analysis of farming systems research
in Rwanda in early 1986 to review the first results of the three regional
OFR/FSP programs (Bugesera, Zaire-Nile divide and FSIP).
Visiting Scientists
2.38      The Project would provide US S675,000 for 56 man-months of short
term consultancies by visiting scientists, of which 15 man-months would be
used for assistance to MINAGRI for the research master plan preparation
(para. 2.39). The remainder 41 man-months would be used for specialized
consultancies at the request of research teams and for program reviews
(para. 4.07).
Agricultural Research Master Plan Preparation
2.39      The preparation of a long term (15 to 20 years) master plan for
agricultural research in Rwanda would be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. For this purpose, MINAGRI would be
reinforced with one expatriate staff, one AO and one A2 level Rwandan staff
and three administrative staff. A total of 15 man-months (para. 2.38) of
high level consultant staff would be available through ISNAR. The total
preparation costs of US $745,000 include vehicles, equipment, a micro
computer, operating costs and one year training abroad for Rwandan staff.



- 23 -
Support for the Agronomic Faculty and the Geographic Department of the
National University of Rwanda (UNR)
2.40      The main purpose for supporting the Agronomic Faculty and
Geographic Department is to increase the research capability of students
and faculty, currently extremely limited. A total of US $170,000 would be
provided under the Project to finance agricultural and laboratory
equipment, ten micro computers, research supplies and travel indemnities.
Each year, a detailed research program and budget would be discussed with
ISAR and presented to IDA for approval. The accounts for this component
will be kept by ISAR, and payments will only be made for approved budget
items on presentation of evidence of payment or invoices.
On-farm Experimentation
2.41      The Project would aim at improving the research-extension linkage
at the field level. To overcome the shortage of research technicians (A2),
to involve the extension services to the maximum extent possible, to
increase the number of multi-location trials, and to emphasize on-farm
experimentation rather than on-station research, the project would include
means of transport, operating costs and indemnities for extension staff at
the prefecture and commune levels. A total of 20 motorcycles would be sold
on credit to extension staff who would receive indemnities according to
annual research contracts. These contracts would be separately specified
in ISAR's annual research programs and budget. The total cGst of this
component is estimated at US $40,000. On-farm research executed by
extension staff would remain under the full responsibility of ISAR's
scientists.
Research Station Development and Civil Works
2.42      The civil works program (US $4.1 million) consists of the
rehabilitation of 15,000 mt of existing operational buildings and housing
units, and construction of 4,350 m2 of additional buildings at five
locations. In addition, rehabilitation and extension of existing
infrastructure at Ruhande, Gisovu, Ruhengeri/Kinigi and Rwerere Stations
would be undertaken under respectively: Swiss financing for forestry and
agro-forestry research, FED financing for the Zaire-Nile divide FSR
Program, IFAD financing for the Birunga Maize Project and USAID financing
for the FSIP project. The Gishwati station would be developed with IDA
financing under Credit 1039 RW. The most noteworthy features of the civil
works program are the construction of a cold store at the Rubona station
for seed storage, the extension of ISAR's headquarters at Rubona to
accommodate additional staff, the improvement of rangeland at Karama
station including drinking water supply, and the establishment of an ISAR
liaison office in Kigali with a small guest house and a meeting room.
Investments for rangeland improvement at Karama station would be subject to
the disbursement condition referred to in para. 2.27. Architect's fees for
a total amount at base cost of RF 25 million (US $260,000) are included in
the Project costs, as well as RF 10 million (US $105,000) for additional
studies, such as water supply to ISAR's stations.



- 24 -
Vehicles and Equipment
2.43      The cost tables in the Implementation Volume contain detailed
equipment lists for a total of US $1.9 million, including six tractors, 16
cars, 12 trucks, 20 motorbikes, 15 micro computers, two word processors,
three generators and office equipment (US $2,000 per office). To promete
off-station research and increase research efficiency, the mobility of
extension staff should be assured. Therefore 20 additional motorcycles
would be provided under the Project (para. 2.41). Vehicles and motorcycles
are renewed every three years. Vehicle and truck requirements are based on
pooling and calculated as follows: one car for each department chief and
expatriate research worker, one car for two Rwandan research workers and
one truck for four research technicians. Vehicle and equipment
requirements are only included for the Rubona, Songa, Karama and Tamira
stations and the liaison office in Kigali. As for infrastructure
requirements, equipment for the Ruhande, Gisovu, Ruhengeri/Kinigi and
Rwerere stations would be financed by other donors (para. 2.42). Equipment
for the Gishwati station would be financed by IDA under Credit 1039 RW.
Cartography
2.44      Included in the assistance to MINAGRI for the research master
plan preparation is a component under which the soils map of Rwanda would
be published. The survey for this map has been financed by Belgium and is
almost completed. The work has been done in such detail that the map could
be published on a 1:50,000 scale, while available funding would only allow
publication on 1:100,000, a scale generally considered of nor much use for
agricultural planning and development purposes. The Project therefore
includes a total of RF 5.6 mil.lion (US $58,000) for multicolor printing on
a 1:50,000 scale.  Tnis map on soils will be one of the basic elements for
the inventory of Rwanda's agro-forestry systems included under the
agro-forestry research program (para. 2.29). A second element required for
such an inventory is a map of Rwanda's agro-ecological zones of more detail
than the one presently available 6/. Funding for the publication of such
a map is included under the Project for a total amount of RF 11.3 million
(US $116,000).
6/ Disponibilite et Utilisation des Terres au Rwanda, situation actuelle
et perspectives, by B. .Prefol and G. Delepierre, November 1973.



- 25 -
Table 2.2: Civil Works and Equipment Requirements
Rehabilitation             Extension
Operational              Operational
Civil Works                    buildings    Housing    buildings    Housing
Rubona                              475       7,500        1,166        1,740
Songa                             1,720         590            -            -
Karama                           2,395        2,000          105         820
Tamira                              245         360          100          230
Kigali                                -           -          115           75
Equipment                               1984 /a   1985   1986   1987   Total
- - -RF million /b---
Renewal:
Agricultural equipment                  -      15.5   10.2       -    25.7
Laboratory equipment                    -       1.4    2.4       -     3.8
Vehicles                                -       4.2    2.0       -     6.2
Extension:
Agricultural equipment                  -       4.6    6.7    1.2    12.5
Laboratory equipment                   .5       8.4   15.4      .3    24.6
Vehicles                              3.0      12.2    8.5    6.2    29.9
Office equipment                       .4       5.9    4.5       -    10.8
Furniture                             1.5      10.8    6.2       -    18.5
Micro computers                        .3       4.2    1.4      .7     6.6
Radio equipment                       1.5       3.0       -      -     4.5
Generators                              -       2.7    1.7       -     4.4
Workshop equipment                      -        .7      .8      -      1.5
Documentation equipment                 -       2.2    3.4    2.8      8.4
Topographic equipment                            . 9    1.1     .4     2.4
Total                                    7.2      76.7   t4.3   11.6   159.8
/a Under PPF financing.
/b At base cost.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total Project costs, reflecting both ongoing and incremental
research activities, but excluding activities financed by other donors or
under separate IDA Credits for the three year implementation period 1985-87



- 26 -
are estimated at RF 1,740 million (US $18.0 million), with a foreign
exchange component of about 48%. Costs include direct taxes of about 5% on
civil works, locally procured equipment and operating costs, but exclude
import duties since the Government has indicated that these would be
waived. Base cost estimates reflect January 1984 prices. Because the PPF,
under which a large variety of project items is financed, became effective
in mid-1983; December 1984 (date of negotiations) base costs would
therefore tend to confuse presentation of project costs. Physical
contingencies include 20% for all new construction; 15% for rehabilitation
works; 10% for office, radio, furniture and workshop equipment; 5% for all
operating costs and training; 15% for documentation equipment, books and
periodicals; and 15% for seasonal workers. No provision for physical
contingencies has been included for staff and equipment for which numbers
are clearly established. Expected price increases are compounded at the
following annual rates:
Project                 (Expqtriate                     (Local
year      Foreign        staff)        Local          staff)
1984          3.5          (3.8)          9.5             (0)
1985          8.0          (7.5)          9.5             (0)
1986          9.0          (8.5)          9          (10, 15, 30) /a
1987          9.0          (8.5)          9               (0)
/a 30% for seasonal and contract workers, 15% for skilled workers
and 10% for all higher level staff.
Total expected price increases amount to 16% of total Project costs or 21%
of base costs. Expected salary increases of local staff account for 34%
(US $1.0 million) of the total price contingency provision. The last
general salary increase was in 1980. Costs are detailed in the
Implementation Volume, and summarized in Annex 7 and Table 3.1.



- 27 -
Table 3.1: Summary Project Costs
Share
of
Project                                                         base  Foreign
component          Local Foreign   Total Local Foreign Total  cost exchange
-     FRW million --  -- US S million --
Capital Costs
Civil works        172.6  115.1    287.7   1.8   1.2        3.0   21      40
Vehicles and
equipment        19.3  135.5    154.8    .2   1.4        1.6   11      88
Architect and
audit fees
and studies       1.7   37.8      39.5      -    .4       .4    3      96
Cartography          1.5   13.5      15.0      -    .2       .2    1      90
Training             4.5   41.1      45.6    .1    .4        .5    4      90
Sub-total       199.6  343.0    542.6   2.1   3.6        5.7   40      63
Research Staff
Expenditures
Local scientists
and technicians 92.1       -      92.1   1.0      -      1.0    7       -
Expatriate
scientists (a   12.0  108.0    120.0    .1   1.1         1.2    9      90
Sub-total       104.1  108.0    212.1   1.1   1.1        2.2   16      51
Operating Costs
Local support
staff           266.6      -    266.6   2.7       -      2.7   19       -
Expatriate
support staff    8.8   79.2       88.0    .1    .8        .9    6      90
Research suxpplies  18.7   56.3      75.0    .2    .6        .8    6      75
Other supplies
and services    12.0   17.9       29.9    .1    .2        .3    2      60
Vehicle operating
costs            15.7   62.9      78.6    .2    .6        .8    6      80
Infrastructure and
equipment
maintenance      30.4   28.1      58.5    .3    .3        .6    4      48
Other operating
costs            23.6      -      23.6    .2      -       .2    1       -
Sub-total       375.8  244.4    620.2   3.8   2.5        6.3   44     39
Base Cost          679.5  695.4  1,374.9   7.0   7.2    14.2  100         51
Physical
contingencies   43.4   36.5       79.9    .4    .4        .8    6      46
Price
contingencies  180.6  106.5    287.1   1.9   1.1         3.0   21      37
Total Project
costs           903.5  838.4  1,741.9   9.3   8.7    18.0  127         48
/a Includlig visiting scientists.



- 28 -
B. Proposed Financing
3.02      It is proposed that an IDA Credit of US $11.5 million be made to
the Government of Rwanda to finance 64% of Project costs. This would cover
90% of all civil works (para. 2.42); 100% of vehicles, equipment and
training costs (paras. 2.37, 2.43 and 2.44); 80% of research supplies,
vehicle operating costs, infrastructure and equipment maintenance; 100% of
four key expatriate staff (paras. 2.36 and 2.39), two expatriate research
workers (para. 2.41) and 56 man-months of short term consultants and
visiting scientists (para. 2.38), architect's fees and annual audits
(para. 2.42). Of the total US $5.3 million Government participation, 92X
or US $4.9 million would be earmarked for local staff salaries, of which
US $1.0 million or 20% for salary increases expected in 1986 (para. 3.01).
A formal commitment has been obtained from the Government at negotiations
that it would make the necessary annual budget allocations to meet its
contribution.
Table 3.2: Proposed Project Financing
Project Component                            Total    IDA   GOR   ISAR   IDA
--- (USmilin) - - lO
Capital Costs
Civil works                                    3.6    3.2    .4        -    90
Vehicles and equipment                          1.6    1.6     -       -   100
Consultant fees and studies                      .3     .3     -       -   100
Cartography                                      .2     .2     -       -   100
Training                                         .5     .5     -       -   100
Research Staff Expenditures
Local scientists and technicians                1.0      -   1.0       -     -
Expatriate scientists                           1.2    1.2     -       -   100
Operating Costs
Local support staff                            2.7       -   2.7       -     -
Expatriate support staff                         .8     .8     -       -   100
Research supplies                                .8     .6     -      .2    80
Other supplies and services                      .3      -     -      .3     -
Vehicle operating costs                          .9     .7     -      .2    80
Infrastructure and equipment maintenance        .6      .5     -      .1    80
Other operating costs                            .2      -     -      .2     -
Refunding PPF                                    .3     .3     -      -   100
Contingencies (price)                          3.0    1.6   1.2       .2    53
Total                                         18.0   11.5   5.3    1.2    64
Percentage                                     100      64    29    7



- 29 -
C. Financial Implications and Budget Procedures and Reviews
3.03      Financial Implications for the Government.  Currently (1984),
ISAR is supported for RF 60 million (US $0.6 million) by the Government,
and for RF 35 million (US $0.4 million) by its own income from sales of
produce (Annex 1). Over the three year project period, Government's total
incremental outlays would be RF 320 million (US $3.4 million), of which RF
40 million (US $0.4 million) as counterpart funds for the civil works
component and the rest, RF 280 million (US $3.0 million) for local staff
salaries. Of the latter amount, RF 98 million (US $1.0 million) is
earmarked for a general wage increase expected in 1986.
3.04      Annual Budget Procedures and Review.  Paras. 4.06 and 4.07
describe the procedures for formulation, review and submission of the
annual research programs. Appended to these programs, ISAR will submit a
financial budget for expenditures to be incurred during the year. The
first program aid annual budget for 1985 has been submitted to IDA prior to
negotiations. Fir subsequent years, ISAR will submit by September 30 the
programs and budge: for the following year. The annual budget will include
the following:
i)   A detailed list of investment items to be procured during
the year, indicating approximate costs and proposed
procurement procedures (para. 3.05).
(ii)   An estimate of total operating costs during the year by
various categories as determined by ISAR. Principle
items are likely to be: salaries of local staff, vehicle
operating costs, consumable supplies, staff travel
indemnities, maintenance, transport and other services.
(iii)   A financing plan, both for capital expenditures and
operating costs, indicating total amounts to be paid by
ISAR and those proposed for IDA financing.
(iv) A formal assurance from the Government that the amount
indicated in the financing plan for subsidies to ISAR has
been allocated in the budget and will be made available
to ISAR during the year. If not, IDA's approval would be
withheld until the budget has been voted by the National
Assembly.
Following a review, the Bank would advise ISAR of its approval of the
annual program and budget by November of each year. The first budget (for
1985) has been discussed and agreed during negotiations. Annual approval
by IDA of the research programs and budgets would be a condition of
disbursement for vehicles, equipment and operating costs for replenishment
of the revolving fund (para. 3.09) and for direct payments for vehicles,
equipment and operating costs (para. 3.06, Categories II and V).



- 30 -
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.05      Procurement procedures are summarized in Table 3.3.  Given the
scattered nature of works, no international contractors of civil works are
expected to be interested. Therefore, all new civil works to he financed
by IDA (US $3.5 million) would be locally procured under bidding documents,
divided into lots to be proposed by the executing architects and allowing
bidding for one, several or all of the lots. IDA would review: (i) the
bidding documents and bid award procedures; and (ii) the bid evaluation and
proposed contracts prior to contract award, for all civil works estimated
to cost over US $100,000. All rehabilitation works (US $0.6 million), much
of which is delayed maintenance, will be divided into lots for which three
contractors would be invited to submit proposals. For lots exceeding an
estimated cost of US $50,000, local procurement procedures will apply.
Architectural designs, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of
works for a total estimated cost of US $0.4 million are being undertaken by
an architectural firm acceptable to IDA. Three annual lots of vehicles and
tractors (US $0.7 million) would be procured through local competitive
bidding amongst all locally represented manufacturers with adequate repair
facilities. For lots exceeding an estimated cost of US $100,000,
international competitive bidding procedures will apply following IDA
guidelines. Because of the nature of research, purchase of specialized
equipment and renewals (US $0.3 million) from one manufacturer only would
be allowed. All other equipment (US $0.7 million) would be procured based
on price quotations from at least three local or foreign suppliers.
Grouped equipment purchases exceeding US $50,000 would require local
competitive bidding and prior Bank approval of bidding documents and draft
contracts. For research supplies (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, animal
feed, hand tools, etc.), vehicle operating costs (gas, spare parts and
external repair bills), and infrastructure and equipment maintenance (spare
parts, construction materials and external invoices), for a total estimated
cost of US $2.8 million, direct purchases from one supplier only would be
allowed. However, whenever possible, purchases would be grouped and
procured based on price quotations from at least three local or foreign
suppliers. Grouped purchases under this category exceeding US $50,000
would require local competitive bidding and prior Bank approval of bidding
documents and draft contracts. Contracts for goods and services estimated
to cost more than US $100,000 would be procured through international
competitive bidding following IDA guidelines. Items under this category,
presently identified, are multicolor printing of maps (US $190,000).  Two
expatriate staff (estimated cost US $755,000) have been recruited through
ISNAR and two (estimated cost US $585,00) would be recruited through ILCA.
Visiting scientists (estimated cost US $675,000) and two expatriate staff
(estimated cost US $495,000) would be internationally recruited following
procedures acceptable to IDA. Auditors (estimated cost US $55,000)
acceptable to IDA have been recruited. Training fellowships (estimated
cost US $560,000) are being obtained following procedures acceptable to
IDA.



- 31 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Procedures
Disbu rsemuent                                                  Total
Category                     ICB    LCB   Other /a   N. A.   costs
-US $ million
I.  Civil works                      -    3.5       0.6         -      4.1
(3.1)    (0.4)              (3.5)
II.  Vehicles and equipment           -    0.7       1.2         -      1.9
(0.7)    (1.2)              (1.9)
III.  Expatriate staff and             -        -     2.7          -     2.7
consultant fees                             (2.7)             (2.7)
IV.  Training and printing          0.2        -     0.5         -      0.7
(0.2)           (0.5)              (0.7)
V.  Eligible operating               -        -     2.8         -      2.8
costs                                       (2.4)             (2.4)
VI.  Refunding PPA                     -       -       -       0.30     0.30
(0.30)   (0.30)
Other operating costs
and local staff                       -        -      5.5      5.5
Total costs                          0.2      4.2     7.8       5.8     18.0
(Total IDA)                         (0.2)   (3.8)   (7.2)    (0.3)   (11.5)
=~ ~~~~~~~ = 
/a Shopping (three suppliers) or sole source.
3.06      A Schedule of Disbursements is at Annex 8.  The proceeds of the
IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
Category    I:  Civil works, 90Z of total expenditures    (US $3.0 million)
Category   II:  Vehicles and equipment, 100% of
foreign expenditures and 90% of local
expenditures                                (US $1.4 million)
Category  III:  Expatriate staff, auditors, architect's
fees and short term consultancies, 100%   (US $2.3 million)
of total expenditures
Category   IV:  Training and printing costs (cartography),
travel allowances for students and faculty
members of the Agriculture Facilty and



- 32 -
Geographic Department of the National
University of Rwanda, 100% of total
expenditures                               (US $ .7 million)
Category    V:  Research supplies (seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides), vehicle operating costs
(gas, spare parts and external repair
bills), and infrastructure and equipment
maintenance (external bills, spare parts
and materials), 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 90% of local expenditures        (US $1.6 million)
Category   VI:  Refunding of the Project Preparation
Advance                                    (US $ .? million)
Category  VII:  Initial deposit into Special Account        (US $ .8 million)
Category VIII:  Unallocated                                 (US S1.4 million)
E. Accounting Procedures
3.07      ISAR has a generally sound and acceptable accounting system for
the type and level of its current activities. The existing procedures, and
mainly manual accounting system, are those instituted by the Belgians.
Bank preparation and appraisal missions have, however, identified several
weaknesses and areas for further improvements:
(i)   Since the departure of the Belgians in 1982, there has
been a lack of adequately qualified accounting staff as a
result of which there is a backlog in maintenance of
up-to-date accounts. For example, the system provides
for 'cost accounting" (i.e. breakdown of all expenses by
ISAR's major programs or activities). Such accounts have
not been prepared since 1981.
(ii)   The present procedures do not fully integrate accounting
for expenses (and revenues) of several research projects
which are implemented by external donors or through other
intermediaries (such as under the BGM project).
(iii)   Although ISAR prepares budgets at irregular intervals
(mainly to substantiate requests for funds from the
Government), there are no clearly defined procedures for
annual budgets, its follow-up and the budget is not used
for internal management of research programs nor
allocation of priorities, etc.
(iv) Until recently, ISAR's annual accounts were not subjected
to an independent audit. Although the 1982 accounts of



- 33 -
ISAR were examined by Commissaires aux Comptes from the
Ministry of Finance, such examination does not constitute
a complete audit of annual financial statements as
normally required by the Bank.
3.08      To correct the above deficiencies and as part of project
preparation efforts, the Bank has agreed on the following action with ISAR:
(i)   ISAR, in consultation with the Bank, has signed a
contract with a qualified consulting firm under which
this firm will provide a qualified and experienced staff
as head of ISAR's Accounting and Administrative
Services Department. The Bank was consulted on the
appointment of the expatriate officer who joined ISAR in
March 1984. His terms of reference include bringing the
accounts up-to-date, making changes to accounting
procedures required to integrate financial management of
all research activities under ISAR's control, recruitment
of additional staff and instituting adequate procedures
for efficient operation of common services (garage,
workshop, financial aspects of station managements,
etc.). The services of this expatriate officer are being
financed under the PPF.
(ii)   ISAR had its 1982 accounts audited by an acceptable
external auditor. The 1983 audited accounts were
available at negotiations.
3.09      Disbursement Procedures and Imprest Account for Disbursements
under the IDA Credit. No expenditures for vehicles, equipment and
operating expenditures relating to any year will be eligible for financing
under the IDA Credit until the program and budget for that year have been
approved by IDA. ISAR will claim withdrawal for expenditures under the
usual Bank procedures, including reimbursement of expenditures pre-financed
by ISAR, direct payment to suppliers, etc. Under the Project, however,
ISAR is likely to incur expenditures for numerous small amounts. To
facilitate disbursements of these and to reduce the number of withdrawal
applications to be processed, IDA would soon after the Credit becomes
effective, advance to ISAR a sum of US $800,000, corresponding to
approximately three months expenditures over the first two years of the
Project (construction period), increased by 20X.   ISAP would utilize tnese
funds to commence project implementation. This should enable ISAR to group
claims for reimbursement and submit withdrawal applications of not less
than US $20,000. The advance would be disbursed in US dollars by IDA in
the first instance into a Special Account with the National Bank of
Rwanda. This account will be used to pay: (i) expenditures in foreign
currency and possibly salaries of expatriate staff; and (ii) local
expenditures for civil works, vehicles, equipment and operating costs.
Transactions for all expenditures will be effected using the exchange rate
of the day. Funds in the Special Account cannot be mixed with funds from
other sources.



- 34 -
3.10      Disbursements on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).  ISAR would
claim reimbursement on the basis of Statements of Expenditures for:
(i)   civil works contracts costing less than US $50,000
equivalJnt (Disbursement Category I);
(ii)   vehicles, equipment, goods, services and operating costs
for single items or contracts costing less than US
$15,000 equivalent (Disbursement Categories II, IV and
V); and
(iii)   consulting services contracts costing less than US
$50,000 equivalent (Disbursement Category III).
Withdrawals for local expenses above these limits and for expenditures in
foreign curency in excess of US $5,000 equivalent would be fully documented
(invoices, evidence of payment, etc.). The suitable format for this has
been agreed at negotiations and will be confirmed as part of the
disbursement letter. ISAR will maintain all the relevant supporting
documents for reimbursement claims under SOE for inspection by supervision
missions. During the course of the annual audit of ISAR's accounts, the
auditor will be requested to certify that all expenditures claimed under
SOEs during the year have been properly incurred for the Project. ISAR's
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
their report would be submitted within six months of the end of ISAR's
fiscal year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General Management
4.01      ISAR's existing disciplinary oriented research departments would
be reorganized in the first phase in four scientific departments: crops
research, farming systems research, livestock research, and forestry and
agro-forestry (Chart 1). Research on soils and erosion control would be
integrated in the farming systems research department. Entomology and
phytopathology would be integrated in the crops research department.
Central support services - documentation, central laboratories, data
processing and statistics - would be regrouped with research station
management in one Financial and Administrative Service. The purpose of the
reorganization is to reorient ISAR's staff into practical adaptive research
through multidisciplinary teamwork. As part of the reorganization, the
stations will be reorganized as services that are for all administrative
and financial matters (accounting and budget control) supervised by the
Head of the Financial and Administrative Service, to emphasize the fact
that the stations will implement the research programs under the
supervision of research teams rather than operate as independent units as
at present. The Managing Director of ISAR would have overall



- 35 -
responsibility for project implementation. His office would be
strengthened by the establishment of an internal ISAR Research Committee
(para. 4.06) and Research Programming and Evaluation Unit (para. 2.31).
Within the reorganized ISAR structure he would delegate most of the daily
research management to the four Department Heads for: (i) crops research;
(ii) production systems research; (iii) livestock research; and (iv)
forestry and agro-forestry research.  Accounting and financial management
would be delegated to the Read of the Financial and Administrative Service
who would be in charge of accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, personnel
administration and common support services including workshops,
documentation, central laboratories and the data processing and statistics
unit.
4.02      The Environmental Studies and Production Systems Department.
Under the Project this department would be newly created. Initially, the
department would have three field operations: Bugesera, Zaire-Nile divide
and Rwerere. Its functions would consist of:
(i)   support to the field operations (surveys, cartography,
soil physics and soil fertility analysis, etc.);
(ii)   programming of component research;
Ciii)   coordination of OFR/FSP activities of the department with
MINAGRI (extension services, MINAGRI, etc.) and rural
development projects; and
(iv)   synthesis of the results of the field operations in view
of a broader diffusion of research results and to define
OFR/FSP guidelines for future operations.
Initially, the department's central scientific staff at Rubona would
consist of: a department chief, a farming systems agronomist, an
agricultural economist, a rural sociologist and a geographer. They would
fully participate in the three regional progratis in their respective fields
of conpetence, since the field teams would consist of two, maximum three,
scientists only. The four scientists at Rubona would be recruited over the
next three to four years. In other words, the department would be
gradually established once the regional programs would become fully
operational.
4.03      During negotiations, Government confirmed that ISAR's reorganized
administrative structure had been approved by its Board of Directors.
Because of the location of ISAR's headquarters in Rubona (without even
telephone communicatior with Kigali), coordination and liaison with MINAGRI
and other ministries has in the past been extremely difficult. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that ISAR would maintain a permanent
liaison office in Kigali.
4.04      Aid Coordination.  To ensure the desired coordination in
implementation and financing of the overall research effort, Government



- 36 -
would invite annually all bilateral and international agencies interested
in the financing of agricultural research in Rwanda to review research
concepts, staffing and financial support for ISAR. To meet this
requirement, the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry would
furnish by September 30 of each year to all agencies, including IDA, the
proposed research programs, corresponding work programs, budgets, financing
plan, staffing and training program and research program review schedule
(paras. 4.06 and 4.07) for comment and suggestions. IDA approval of these
documents, following their consideration by the above agencies, would be a
condition of disbursement for Categories II and V (para. 3.06). The
documents for 1985 would be distributed upon signature of the Development
Credit Agreement. A first donor meeting was held during appraisal.
B. Research Management
4.05      Because multidisciplinary research needs careful programming and
coordination, one scientist in each national or regional research team
would be appointed as program coordinator (team leader). His task would be
to prepare and present, in cooperation with his colleagues, the annual
research program, the program budget and the annual report. In addition,
he would be responsible for daily coordination of the research work and
budget control. The program coordinators would be directly responsible to
their respective Department Heads. Detailed terms of reference for a
research program coordinator are at Annex 3. A coordinator should not be
perceived as another layer in the hierarchy; he is in the first place a
research worker. His coordinating role is most apparent in the preparation
of the annual research programs and reports. Because several crop research
programs are limited in scope, a research worker may work on more than one
crop at a time. Therefore several crops will be grouped under one national
program coordinator as follows:
(i) A legumes program consisting of beans, peas, soybeans and
groundnuts.
(ii) A cereals program consisting of maize, sorghum, wheat and
triticale.
(iii) A tuber program consisting of cassava, sweet potatoes and
potatoes.
(iv)   An industrial crop program consisting of coffee and tea.
(v)   A fruit crop program consisting of bananas and avocadoes.



- 37 -
C. Internal and External Research Program Review
4.06      Internal Program Review.  Annually, each of the national and
regional research teams would prepare its own research proposals and
corresponding budgets for the coming year under the supervision of the
Department Heads and accor7ing to a format designed by the Research
Programming and Evaluation Advisor. These would subsequently be discussed
and agreed upon by ISAR's Research Committee consisting of the Department
Heads, the Programming and Evaluation Advisor (the Committee's secretary),
the Station Chiefs and two senior representatives of the research workers
under the presidency of ISAR's Managing Director. Subsequently, each
research team would prepare the research protocols and detailed budgets for
each program within the limits of the budget allocations decided ty the
Research Committee. The quality control of the research protocols is the
responsibility of the Department Heads, thereby assisted by the Research
Programming and Evaluation Advisor. Once the detailed budgets are
established, ISAR's overall budget and programs are presented to its Board
of Directors for approval. The Ministry of Agriculture's representatives
on the Board have two weeks to approve the programs and budgets or propose
alternatives. A new law is under consideration whereby ISAR's programs
would be reviewed by a National Research Council. It may take several
years before this law would come into effect. The purpose of the law would
be to integrate agricultural research in a national research strategy and
to amplify internal program review.
4.07      External Program Review.  Under the Project, funds are included
for visiting scientists (para. 2.38). These scientists would be
specialists in their field, and they would be recruited under terms of
reference and qualifications acceptable to IDA. They would review past
research results, advise on research orientation and review program
proposals. In cases where national research institutes or IARCs are
involved under formal agreements with ISAR, these institutes would provide
for external program reviews. Since agricultural research programs are
generally set up for periods from three to five years, ISAR would arrange
in all cases for external program reviews at the end of each program prior
to decide on its continuation or reorientation. In the case of the longer
programs (five years or more), ISAR would also arrange for midterm
reviews. ISAR would include in its annual budget proposals to be presented
to the agencies financing agricultural research in Rwanda and IDA (para.
4.04), a detailed planning of program reviews to be ur2ertaken over the
year, as well as the results of last year's reviews.
D. Station Management
4.08      The most important function of a research station manager is to
provide the best possible physical support services to realize the full
production potential of the highly qualified scientists working on the
station. This function becomes even more important for coordinated



- 38 -
multidisciplinary research that is highly field oriented. Research station
management exists primarily to serve the needs of the research staff. Its
responsibilities would include: maintenance of buildings and grounds;
vehicle and equipment maintenance and repair, operation of the station's
vehicle pool; soil preparation, cultural care, assistance in seeding and
harvesting experimental plots; the care of livestock; seed and feed
production and other service duties prescribed by proper authority.
Details of a station director's required qualifications (senior level
officer of Grade A2 or above) and responsibilities are at Annex 3.
4.09      ISAR presently operates seven stations outside Rubona for
research activities: Songa, Ruhande, Karama, Gisovu, Ruhengeri/Kinigi,
Rwerere and Tamira. These stations vary in size, management structure and
scope of activities. The Gisovu and Ruhengeri/Kinigi stations have been
operating as autonomous stations, but are currently being integrated in
ISAR's station network. Under the Project, an eighth station at Gishwati
for small ruminants research will be added to this network (financed under
Credit 1039 RW). For research and technical activities within the station,
the station director will report to the program coordinators and/or
Department Heads as appropriate. For all financial, administrative and
personnel matters, he will be answerable to the Head of the Financial and
Administrative Service. The station director will be empowered to
authorize the expenditures of all funds provided for the general experiment
station budget (general farming operations, maintenance, etc.). It would
be his responsibility to see to it that funds budgeted for research in the
coordinated research programs at his station are distributed according to
the official budget. Because the budgets for these programs are prepared
by the program coordinators and because the funds are allocated
specifically to carry out these programs, the station director would not
have the authority to shift these to other programs or prohibit their
expenditure for properly budgeted purposes.
E. Reporting
4.10      At negotiations, it has been agreed that:  (i) ISAR's Managing
Director would introduce by June 30, 1985, a project reporting system,
including quarterly progress reports (civil works, procurement, project
expenditures, recruitment, training, etc.) and annual scientific reports;
the reporting format would be proposed by ISAR's management and reviewed by
IDA; (ii) ISAR's management would prepare and forward not less than three
months prior to the end of ISAR's fiscal year its annual work program and
budget, after internal and external reviews (paras. 4.04, 4.06 and 4.07) to
IDA for approval; and (iii) ISAR would within six months of the closing
date of the proposed Credit, prepare a project completion report. The
draft annualwork progam and budget would show a breakdown by research
program, as well as proposed lists of all infrastructure, vehicles,
equipment and research supplies to be acquired for the Project for the
following year by donor. The first budget covers the period January 1,



- 39 -
1985, through December 31, 1985, and has been submitted to IDA at
negotiations. IDA approval of the annual work programs and budgets would
be a condition of disbursement of funds for vehicle and equipment
expenditures and operating costs, and for the replenishment of the
revolving fund (para 3.09).
4.11      The Research Programming and Evaluation Advisor (para. 2.31)
financed under the Project, would design and implement the reporting system
described above (para. 4.10). This system would provide a dual service
to ISAR's General Manager and Department Heads as a data collection,
analysis and advisory system, and the Government and ISAR financiers as a
source of information for effective project supervision and impartial
assessment of performance. The Research Programming and Evaluation Unit
would also be responsible for: (i) preparing and guiding the annual
internal and external research program and budget reviews; (ii) preparation
and publication of ISAR's annual scientific reports by June 30 of each
year; (iii) preparation and publication of the quarterly project progress
reports and a project completion report (para. 4.10); and (iv) acting as a
secretariat to ISAR's Scientific Committee.
F. Research Master Plan Preparation
4.12      The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry would have
final responsibility for the preparation of the master plan for
agricultural research (paras. 2.02 and 2.39), since its purpose would be to
respond to farmers' needs and Rwanda's Iong term agricultural sector
strategy. The expatriate staff to be recruited under the Project is
expected to be in position by June 1985. By September 1985, the Ministry
would present a first outline for the master plan, including detailed terms
of reference for additional studies to be undertaken in respect of various
sub-sector strategies (industrial crops, food crops, livestock, etc.),
status of agricultural research in neighboring countries, a national seed
control and certification system, a long term agricultural research
manpower development plan, a national information system for the
dissemination of research results and extension themes, etc. A study and
possible reorganization of the national extension system would be
undertaken sinultaneously under a separate project presently under
preparation. A draft master plan would be available by June 1986, to be
finalized after review by all aid agencies, including IDA and the
Government by September 1986. This would allow one year to prepare a
follow on agricultural research project corresponding with the first five
year tranche of the master plan. The Ministry would prepare annual budgets
for review by IDA and semi-annual progress reports for the master plan
study. ISNAR would provide consulting services in specialized subjects.



- 40 -
G. Research-Extension Liaison
4.13      Institutionalized liaison mechanisms between research and
extension do not exist at the present time. A project aiming at
strenghthening the national agricultural extension system is in an advanced
stage of preparation for IDA financing (para. 1.15), and would specifically
address the issue of poor communication mechanisms between services in the
agricultural sector, including the national agricultural research system.
Nevertheless, the project would actively promote a closer collaboration at
the grass roots level between research and extension workers through
research contracts for on-farm adaptive research (para. 2.41). In several
ongoing projects financed by IDA (para. 1.12, Credit Nos. 1039, 1126 and
1283 RW), and other donors, a close working relationship has already been
established with the extension services. However, in the future it will
become increasingly important to institutionalize feedback from extension
through the program review process (paras. 4.06 and 4.07). In fact, such a
system does exist, albeit in embryo form, through the annual program and
budget review by ISAR's Board of Directors in the person of MINAGRI's
representation (para. 4.06). Proposals for further strengthening of
institutionalized feedback mechanisms from extension will be developed
during the research master plan preparation (paras. 2.02 and 4.12) and as
part of a new national extension system. One of the studies already being
undertaken in this respect concerns the appropriateness of present
extension themes.
H. Civil Works
4.14      A firm of executive architects has been hired in agreement with
IDA under PPF financing to prepare the plans for building construction and
site development, implementation schedules, bidding and contract documents,
carry out bid analysis, to advise on the award of contracts and to
supervise construction. ISAR would obtain the services of a Technical
Liaison Officer for the duration of the construction period. The Technical
Liaison Officer would be responsible for: (i) supervision and liaison with
the executive architects; and (ii) liaison with research staff on building
design. Detailed terms of reference for the executive architects and the
Technical Liaison Officer a-e at Annex 3.  ISAR would seek IDA approval of
the civil works component of the Project in three stages: (a) preliminary
design and cost estimates;(b) detailed design, architect's confidential
cost estimates and bidding documents; and (c) bid evaluation and award.
Preliminary design and cost estimates have been reviewed at appraisal.
Detailed design and architect's confidential cost estimates have been
reviewed during negotiations.



- 41 -
I. Implementation Schedule
4.15      The Project would provide the institutional framework for a
better coordination of agricultural research activities - the introduction
of nationally coordinated multidisciplinary research teams, the
establishment of an Environmental Studies and Production Systems Department
within ISAR and the introduction of on-farm research. This new orientation
will he gradually introduced over the three year project period to prepare
ISAR for its role in the execution of the agricultural research master plan
to be prepared under the Project. The phasing of the main project
activities is illustrated in Chart 2. Detailed engineering design for
infrastruture rehabilitation and construction including architect's
confidential cost estimates was available prior to negotiations. Bidding
documents would be available by the time of Board presentation. Execution
of the works by contractors is expected to take two years. Most of the
vehicles and equipment would also be procured over the first two years of
the Project (Table 2.2). The Senior Research Programming and Evaluation
Advisor and the Financial Director, both financed under the PPF, were in
position by March 1984. The research master plan preparation is expected
to be completed by the end of the second year of the Project, leaving one
more year for the preparation of the second agricultural research project,
as a first phase of the execution of the master plan.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      It is generally accepted that a strong national agricultural
research system integrated into the rural development process, with
problem-oriented research focussed on farmer's needs, can make an important
contribution towards improving the lot of the rural population through
improving the quantity, quality and productivity of food, as well as cash
crops. To a large extent, however, only in extreme cases would private
entrepreneurs engage in agricultural research, especially in developing
countries, since research results cannot often be marketed as private
goods. Thus, it devolves on governments to invest in research to maintain
and improve growth in the agricultural sector. Government involvement is
also necessary to: (i) generate cooperation between researchers; (ii)
direct research to meet national needs and objectives and in the
appropriate direction; (iii) meet the large capital outlays which may prove
excessive for the private sector; and (iv) create an effective
institutional framework in which research forms part of the crop production
system, and to avoid the research effort being spread too thinly between a
multiplicity of ministries, institutes and projects.
5.02      No attempt has been made in this report to quantify the ex ante
economic rate of return of the Project for several reasons:
Ci)  The outcome from research activities is uncertain and
attempts to give values to unknown results would be
highly subjective and speculative.



- 42 -
(ii)   The time lag between investment and research findings, as
well as between findings and adoption, is uncertain.
Adoption of research findings, for example, is related to
a variety of factors which may not be directly linked to
the research but dependent on Government policy.
(iii)   The actual amounts expended on research and research
related activities are difficult to estimate since they
may include costs of extension, training and development
projects which may or may not be directly related to the
research project.
(iv)   Research sometimes may yield results not related to the
purpose of the initial research but which nonetheless are
useful and add to the pool of knowledge necessary for
subsequent research efforts.
5.03      Despite the difficulty of an ex-ante estimation of the economic
rate of return, ex post calculations of rates of return on successful
agricultural research have been found to be high in all such studies
completed (Annex 9). In virtually all cases, the estimated internal rates
of return have been higher than the opportunity cost of capital and higher
than the rates of return estimated for most development projects in those
countries. Thus, some crop programs in Latin America and Asia have been
evaluated at between 35% and 102%; applied research in LDCs has shown an
average rate of 42%, and scientific research 60%. Attainment of high
economic rates of return depends on research focus and careful monitoring
and evaluation at reasmnable operating and maintenance costs.
5.04      Risks.  The above discussion should not be taken to suggest that
all agricultural research that could be undertaken in Rwanda would have a
high economic rate of return. A number of factors may affect the success
of the Project and these include:
Ci)   ISAR's middle level and research management staff does
not have in all cases the required qualifications and
experience, and their upgrading may take more time than
expected and slow down project execution.
(ii)   Lack of sufficiently trained local research staff and the
time lag in their training, as well as possible
unavailability of trained expatriates to carry out a true
systems research effort.
(iii)   The possibility that the linkages between research,
extension and agricultural development activities are not
completely developed, whereby inefficient diffusion of
newly generated technology would delay the impact of the
Project at the level of the farmer.
5.05      Risks that are specifically addressed under the Project which may
nevertheless delay new technology generation include:



- 43 -
(i)   Government financing may not be available to execute all
the research programs as conceived.
(ii)   Program segmentation, where given the multiplicity of
co-financiers there is a possibility that their research
interests may not coincide, and hence programs may be
executed in fragments.
(iii)   The possibility that ISAR may be slower than expected in
shifting research emphasis from the present disciplinary
research towards problem-oriented research using
multidisciplinary teams to tackle priority problems.
5.06      The major general risk is that the various problems may bog down
the reorientation of research and hence, delay possible results. However,
the Government is fully committed to the Project and a general consensus
exists with ISAR on the proposed research programs. Moreover, a number of
measures have been proposed in the Project to ensure that the probability
of any of the specific risks becoming real is reduced to the minimum.  The
systems teams are to be kept as small as possible, with a coordinator
responsible for ensuring that research is focussed on the resolution of
pressing problems. The reorganization of the Project executing agency,
ISAR, will ensure that all agricultural research is organized from a
systems perspective. There will be a Research Programming and Evaluation
Unit responsible for overall planning and evaluation of research. The
multidisciplinary teams would focus research on understanding how all
significant factors relate and interrelate within the production process
and would set priorities as a team avoiding individual biases. The linkage
of research to extension through on-farm experimentation by extension
workers should also have a high chance for success, and would give to both
the scientist and the extension worker a unique insight into farmers'
practical problems. Annual internal and external review processes
established for the Project and the aid coordination proceeures should
ensure that research is problem-oriented and congruent with the
Government's agricultural development plans. The multiplicity of donors
should make it possible to obtain enough qualified expatriate staff to man
the Project for the first few years while Rwandese staff are in training.
The Project has therefore recognized the existence of risks and designed
procedures to minimize them. The expected benefits should outweigh the
costs and from the national perspective, even one research component that
is a major success could finance or justify the total agricultural research
effort for years, and those that may fail are part of the cost to be borne
by those that succeed. Cost minimization can be achieved through careful
design of the research organization, staff development, constructively
critical project evaluation, ex ante and ex post program and project
monitoring, and adequate funding; and the Project is designed to do all
these.



- 44 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01.     At negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the
Government on the following principal points:
(i)   Project staff would be appointed for periods which are
appropriate to the demands of the research programs in
question and key project staff would have qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA (para. 2.34).
(ii)   ISAR would maintain throughout the disbursement period of
the Project a research programming and evaluation adviser
(through ISNAR), and a financial director, both with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference
acceptable to IDA (para. 2.35).
(iii)   (a) ISAR would recruit internationally an animal
production systems specialist (para. 2.35) and an animal
nutrition/fodder crops specialist (para. 2.36) (both
through ILCA); a senior agricultural economist
specialized in farming systems research (para. 2.36); and
(b) MINAGRI would recruit internationally an agricultural
economist (para. 2.39), all with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
(iv)   ISAR would submit annually to all bilateral and
international agencies interested in the financing of
agricultural research in Rwanda for review and to IDA for
approval a detailed training program for its staff
(para. 2.37).
(v)   ISAR would, no later than early 1986, organize a thorough
independent analysis of farming systems research to
review the first results of ongoing research in this
field in Rwanda (para. 2.37).
(vi)   (a) The Agronomic Faculty and the Geographic Department
of the University of Rwanda would submit annually their
proposed research programs and corresponding budgets to
IDA for approval; and (b) ISAR will only make payments to
the University of Rwanda for approved budget items and
properly incurred expenses (para. 2.40).
(vii)   By September 30 of each year ISAR would submit its work
program and budget for the following year with supporting
documents to all bilateral and international agencies
interested in the financing of agricultural research in
Rwanda for comment and review and to IDA for approval
(para. 3.04).



- 45 -
(viii)   (a) ISAR's accounts and the project revolving fund would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b)
the report of the auditors would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of the ISAR fiscal year; and
(c) the report of the auditors would be of such scope and
in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a
statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used
for their intended purpose, and a certification that all
expenditures claimed under SOEs during the year have been
properly incurred for the Project as designed (paras.
3.09 and 3.10).
(ix)   ISAR would maintain a permanent liaison office in Kigali
(para. 4.03).
(x) Government would invite annually all bilateral and
international agencies interested in the financing of
agricultural research in Rwanda to review research
concepts, staffing and financial support for ISAR (para.
4.04).
(xi)   ISAR would submit with its annual work program and budget
to all agencies financing agricultural research in Rwanda
for review and IDA for approval: (a) a detailed schedule
of independent annual, midterm and final research program
reviews; and (b) a list of visiting scientists for either
research program support or program review, and their
proposed terms of reference (para. 4.07).
(xii)   By March 31, 1985, ISAR's management would propose a
project reporting system, including quarterly progress
reports and annual scientific reports for review by IDA
(para. 4.10).
(xiii)   ISAR would prepare a Project Completion Report according
to guidelines to be agreed upon with IDA, within six
months of the closing date of the Credit (para. 4.10).
(xiv)   The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry would
present: (a) by September 1985, a first outline of a
master plan for agricultural research including a
schedule and detailed terms of reference for additional
studies for review and approval by IDA; (b) by June 1986,
a draft master plan for agricultural research, including
among others, detailed proposals for a national seed
control and certification system, a national information
system for the dissemination of research results and
extension themes, and a long term research staff manpower
development and training plan, for review by the
Government of Rwanda, all agencies financing agricultural
researcb in Rwanda and IDA; (c) by September 1986, a



- 46 -
final master plan for agricultural research, and detailed
proposals and terms of reference for the preparation of a
second agricultural research project; and (d) by June
1987, a preparation report for the second agricultural
research project (para. 4.12).
(xv)    The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
would present to IDA for review: (a) two months before
the start of each fiscal year, a detailed work program
and budget for the preparation of the master plan for
agricultural research; and (b) semi-annual progress
reports for the master plan and the second agricultural
research project preparation studies (para. 4.12).
(xvi)    (a) All bidding documents for local and international
competitive bidding on civil work contracts would be
subnitted to IDA for approval; and (b) bid evaluation
results and draft contracts for civil works would be
submitted to IDA for approval prior to bid award (para.
4.14).
(xvii)    ISAR would obtain the services of a Technical Liaison
Officer to supervise the execution of engineering and
construction contracts for the duration of the
construction (para. 4.14).
6.02      As a condition of Credit effectiveness, ISAR would enter into a
formal agreement with ICRAF for support to and regular review of
ISAR's agro-forestry research programs, and for providing
technical assistance and training of ISAR's agro-forestry
research staff (para. 2.29).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement are:
(i)   That no withdrawals would be made from the IDA Credit for
civil works in Karama or Songa until: (a) ISAR has
entered into a formal agreement with ILCA for support to
and regular review of ISAR's livestock research progams,
and for providing technical assistance and training of
ISAR's livestock research staff (para. 2.24); and (b) IDA
has received an independent advice by an ILCA expert on
the usefulness of extending ISAR's cattle breeding
program (para. 2.27).
(ii)   That no withdrawals would be made from the IDA Credit for
replenishment of the revolving fund for expenditures for
vehicles, equipment and operating costs until all
agencies financing agricultural research in Rwanda have
reviewed, and IDA has approved, ISAR's annual operating
budget, research programs, financing plans, proposed
investments by procurement procedure, training schedule,



- 47 -
research program staffing and external research program
review schedule. A formal assurance from the Government
to make the necessary budget allocations as indicated in
the financing plan is an additional condition of budget
approval (paras. 2.37, 3.02, 3.04, 4.07 and 4.10).
6.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions the proposed Project
would be suitable for a Credit on standard terms of SDR 11.7 million
equivalent to the Government of Rwanda.



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 1
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Sector and Sub-sector Background
I. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION TRENDS
1.        Food Crops. As suggested by production data provided in Table 1,
food crop production increased by about 50% during the last ten years, with
growth comIng mainly from an expansion in the area under cultivation. The
area under peas declined by one third because they are mainly grown on
fallow land. The yields of the two basic staple crops - bananas and beans
- covering together 50% of the total planted area, declined by about 20%,
probably because they are increasingly grown on marginal soils in the
eastern part of the country under semi-arid conditions or at too high
altirudes close to the temperature limit for these crops, and in high
altitude areas where soils are becoming increasingly acid. Sweet potatoes,
on the contrary, seem to thrive because they are increasingly grown on
formerly uncultivated and annually reclaimed swamp soils (mainly peats).
Yields of all the other food crops remained fairly stable. Up to very
recently no research has been done on bananas and peas in Rwanda, and only
limited researcn on beans.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 2
Table 1:  Trends in Food Crop ProducLion, Acreage and Yields
Production        Area Planted           Yields
('000 mt)          ('000 ha)           (at/ha)
1970  1980 increase 1970 1980 increase 1970 1980 increase
Bananas         1,656 2,063      24    146  225      54   11.3  9.2    -19
Sweet potatoes    379   871    130      65  114      75    5.8  7.6      31
Cassava           330   542      64     28   46      64   11.8 11.9       1
Beans              145   181     25    161  257      60     .9   .7    -22
Sorghum           141   179      27    132  145      10    1.1  1.2       9
Potatoes           134   217     62     21   32      52    6.4  6.7       5
Peas               64    35    -45      76   51    -33      .8   .7    -13
Maize               50    85     70     50   72      44    1.0  1.2      20
Peanuts             15    16      7     16   ]7       6     .9   .9       -
Soybeans             *     4      *      *    5       *      *   .8       *
695  964     39
Not available.
Source: Ministries of Agriculture and Planning.
2.        Export Crops.  Although export crops occupy less than 5% of the
total cultivated area of Rwanda and contribute about 5% of GDP, they
constitute the major source of foreign exchange earnings for the country.
The four principal export crops - coffee, tea, pyrethrum and cinchona -
accounted for an average of 75% of the total value of exports during the
last five years, 80% in 1981. Coffee continues to dominate in export crop
production, accounting in 1981 for 80% of total agricultural exports, with
tea a distant second, accounting for approximately 12% of agricultural
exports in 1981. The recent trends in planted area and yield are shown in
Table 2. Coffee is grown almost entirely by smallholders. An estimated
400,000 farm families (or about half of all smallholders) grow coffee; the
average family has a plot of about 150 trees, covering approximately 0.08
ha. The most favorable zones for coffee cultivation in terms of climatic
factors are the Lake Kivu shore and central high pateau regions; bowever,
due to the relatively well organized marketing system and, in some areas,
the lack of viable cash crop alternatives, coffee cultivation has spread
with population migration to the eastern savannahs to areas considered very
marginal for its cultivation. New varieties with yields of the order of
1,400 kg/ba have been introduced since the mid-1960s. Unfortunately, the
emphasis in research and production in the past has been on yield
maximization rather than quality improvement, although the latter is
possibly the best way to minimize the impact of depressed world market
prices in real terms.



- 50 -              Annex 1
Page 3
Table 2: Export Crops
Production, Acreage and Yields /a
1970
(average
1969-71)     1975     1980      1981 /b
Production ('000 mt)
Coffee (parchment)                  18.9       24.4      20.3     31.2
Tea (dried leaves)                   1.4        4.0       6.6      6.8
Pyrethrum (dry flowers)               .7        1.8        .9       .5
Cinchona /c                           .2         .3        .8       .3
Area Planted ('000 ha)
Coffee                              23.9       28.8      28.5     30.0
Tea                                  1.6        3.5       7.3      8.0
Pyrethrum                            1.0        4.9       1.5      1.2
Cinchona                              .3         .4       1.6       .6
Total                               26.8       37.6      38.9     39.8
Yields (mt/ha)
Coffee                                .8         .8        .7      1.0
Tee                                   .9        1.1        .9       .9
?yrethrum                             .7          .4       .6       .4
Cinehona                              .7         .8        .5       .5
/a  Yields of coffee and tea are heavily influenced by weather conditions
and, particularly for coffee, cyclical production patterns.
/b  Provisional.
/c  For cinchona, production given corresponds to purchases by RWANDEX, the
sole buyer in Rwanda; as a result of depressed world market prices in
1981/82, purchases of bark have been temporarily discontinued. Data on
cultivated area are particularly weak.
Source: Ministries of Agriculture and Planning and mission estimates.
3.        The second most important export crop is tea with 1980 exports of
6,600 tons of made tea worth RF 1,000 million (US $11.9 million), or 11% of
the value of all exports. Tea was introduced in Rwanda from the Congo
(Zaire) only in 1946. Ihe area under tea increased fourfold between 1970
and 1981. Since tea bushes take three years to start bearing, Rwanda's tea
production will continue expanding for a few years on the basis of existing



Annex 1
- 51 -               Page  4
plantings, given normal maintenance. Seventy-eight percent of the tea
hectarage is part of "village tea' schemes, or operated by cooperatives,
mostly the former. Only 13% of tea plantings are state-owned plantations
and 9% are privately-owned plantations. The crop has no major problems or
diseases that would require extensive research. Little is known however
about the most appropriate fertilization requirements and its effect on tea
quality which is at present amongst the best in the world. Fertilization
and, in some areas, better management of green leaf purchases is thought to
be the only way to increase Productivity.
4.        The future of pyrethrum and cinchona is highly uncertain due to
the development of cheaper synthetic substitutes.  Comparative varietal
research on pyrethrum is still continuing on a small scale. No research is
being done on cinchona.
5.        Because of the gradual erosion of real producer prices for all
major export crops since 1978 (Table 3) except tea, farmers' interest in
food crop marketing is rapidly expanding. The Government, faced with one
of the fastest growing populations in the world, gives food
self-sufficiency its highest priority. This is reflected in its
agricultural research strategy.
Table 3: Trends in Real Producer Prices for Export Crops
(1976 = 100)                       1978      1979     1980      1981     1982
Coffee                            143.2    123.7    115.2    108.2       98.3
Tea                               116.3    100.0    101.3    110.0    106.3
Pyrethrum                          77.5      66.7     68.3      73.3     70.8
Cinchona bark                      77.6      64.2     52.0     48.8      47.3
6.        Livestock.  Declining pasture area for extensive grazing and the
difficulty of producing adequate fodder for semi-stabling on the farm are
reducing scope for the traditional pastoralists and slowly crowding cattle
out of the traditional farm system. Available data in Table 4 suggest a
gradual replacement of cattle by more efficient transformers, such as the
small ruminants, pigs and chicken:
Table 4: Trends in Livestock Production
('000 head)
1970      1981     increase
Cattle       752        611        -19
Goats        480        943         96
Sheep        185        336         82
Pigs          55        140        155
Poultry      510      1,090        114
Rabits        55        107         95
Source: Ministries of Agriculture and Planning.



Annex 1
-52 -                Page  5
7.        Forestry and Agro-forestry.  The country's natural forest
resources are endangered by growing pressure for cropping land and by lack
of adequate protection. Existing natural forest reserves cover
approximately 6.5% of the total land and are estimated to be declining at a
rate of 5% per annum. The energy output of controlled forest reserves
(123,000 ha) and family wood lots (60,000 ha) represents only about 6% of
estimated current consumption of wood for cooking heat, construction and
industrial purposes. Although there is no rigorous monitoring of this
resource, physical evidence points to the fact that this deficit is being
made up largely through deforestation of remaining wooded savannahs,
increasing use of crop residues for fuel and growing informal imports of
wood from neighboring countries. Reforestation and the use of trees as
protection against erosion have been actively and successfully promoted by
the Government.
II. STRUCTURE AND CURRENT STATUS OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
8.        Rwanda has a relatively long history of agricultural research,
beginning in Rubona in 1930 when a station was established to produce and
distribute seeds to farmers who had consumed their seed stocks during the
1923 and 1929 famines. In 1935, the supervision of the research programs
was entrusted to the Institut National pour l'Etude Agronomique du Congo
Belge (INEAC), which was created in 1933. In 1950, the Rubona station was
administratively and technically integrated in the INEAC system, together
with an annex for cattle breeding at Songa, a former state farm established
in 1935. In 1955, the Rwerere station was opened to study the adaptation
of certain crops to the high altitude regions of Rwanda. A second
livestock station was created at Karama in the Bugesera region in 1959 to
study the possibilities of developing the south-eastern savannah areas
infested by tsetse flies. With the increased settlement of the Bugesera
region over the last 20 years, crops research became increasingly important
at the Karama station. In 1972, a small station for pyrethrum research was
created in Tamira on the fertile volcanic soils of the north-western part
of the country. Since 1979, a potato research station at Ruhengeri with a
seed potato farm at Kinigi were established with support from CIP.  The
latest station added to ISAR's network is located at Gisovu in the
Zaire-Nile divide region, financed by the European Development Fund (EDF)
and FAC, operated by GERDAT. In 1980, a forestry and agro-forestry
research station was established in Rwanda's National Arboretum at
Ruhande.  The newest station that will be added to this list is the small
ruminant research station at Gishwati, to be constructed under the
IDA financed Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project (Credit 1039 RW).
9.        After independence, ISAR was created on June 22, 1962.  Following
an agreement signed in 1965, Belgium was entrusted with the scientific,
technical and administrative management of ISAR. This agreement was
amended in 1969 to give the supervision of the scientific and technical
activities of ISAR to the Agronomic Faculty of Gembloux (Belgium). In



- 53 -           Annex 1
Page 6
1975, the general management of ISAR was taken over by a Rwandan national.
In 1977, the Belgian Government informed of its intention to limit its
involvement to a few well-defined research programs. Since 1981, Belgian
support has been restricted to legumes, livestock and horticultural
research. On June 16, 1982, Belgium withdrew all of its scientists and
financial support from ISAR. At present, ISAR's research stations are
operating with varying degrees of autonomy.  Certain activities, presently
or formally financed by external donors (e.g. Ruhande and Ruhengeri/Kinigi
stations), are not recorded in ISAR's accounts. This has led to a certain
dispersion of efforts and distortions in research emphasis. The Project is
designed to correct these flaws through the introduction of
multidisciplinary research programming and budgeting, where work would be
coordinated at a national level.
10.       Food Crop Research.  Traditionally, food crop research in Rwanda
has been limited to screening of local and imported varieties, comparative
trials, followed by multi-location trials. No actual crossbreeding has
taken place and variety screening was always done in pure stands without
fertilizers, so that most varieties cultivated in Rwanda are fortunately
"non-fertilizer responsive- 1/.  However, some of the most important crops
(beans, maize, sorghum and others) ore traditionally almost entirely grown
under intercropping. As a result, many varieties screened under pure stand
conditions found little adoption amongst farmers. In the past, in an
effort to intensify Rwandan agriculture through diversification, food crop
research has concentrated on recently introduced crops, such as soybeans
(introduced from Zaire in 1940), groundnuts (introduced in 1920), maize,
wheat and triticale, cassava (introduced from Zaire in the 1940s),
sunflower (since 1977), and potatoes (introduced since the 1920s). For the
traditional crops occupying 77% of the total food crop area or 74% of the
total cultivated area in 1980, some research has been done for a few years
on sweet potatoes and beans, but no research at all on bananas and peas.
Sorghum (90% for beer production), the traditional cereal between 1,400 and
2,000 m, has been researched for over 20 years; but of all the introduced
material, none has outperformed the existing traditional varieties. Over
the last ten years, ISAR has intensified its collaboration with the IARCs
of the CGIAR system: CIP continues to support potato research; IITA with
financing from IDRC is, since 1983, assisting with research on cassava and
sweet potatoes; CIMMYT is cooperating in wheat and triticale research, and
is expected to extend its involvement in maize research through the Birunga
Maize Project financed by IFAD; and in 1983, CIAT started with Swiss
financing an ambitious expansion of the bean research program. The CIMMYT
wheat and triticale, CIP potato and CIAT bean programs form parts of
regional programs managed by the IARCs involved. Unfortunately, the
1/ The terminology used in this report indicates that the improved
varieties do not necessarily require additional chemical nutrients to
obtain a reasonable yield and outperform the traditional varieties
under pure stand conditions.  This does not mean that under certain
soil fertility management conditions no higher yields would be obtained
with chemical fertilizers.



-54 -             Annex 1
Page 7
national institute has little or no control over these regional programs.
The same is often true for research components of rural development
projects financed by a variety of external donors.
11.       Export Crop Research.  The first arabica coffee variety
introduced in Rwanda - Mibirizi - has since long been outperformed by
Jackson and Bourbon Mayagues 71 and 139, selected at the Rubona station.
The last comparative trials on coffee were done between 1974-79. Fifteen
out of the nineteen hectares under coffee at the Rubona station are only
used for production. In an effort to increase both quality and yield, new
trials started in 1983 in collaboration with the Institut Francais du Cafe
et du Cacao (IFCC), financed by the Lake Kivu Coffee and Food Crop Project
(Credit 1126 RW). Starting from 1984, ISAR will, for the first time in
many years, employ a full-time research worker for coffee and tea. ISAR
operates a small tea research station at Mata where a small number of
comparative trials has been undertaken for 12 years. One of the more
serious shortcomings of past research on coffee and tea has been that it
was undertaken at two locations only, so that results have a limited value,
in particular for fertilizer recommendations.
12.       Livestock Research.  Most of the past livestock research in
Rwanda has dealt with breed improvement of cattle. Selection of the local
Ankole breed for beef production started in 1945. Since 1976, selection
has been gradually oriented toward stall feeding and milk production.
Since 1950, crossbreeding between Ankole, Jersey and Sahiwal was thought to
be the solution. However, stall feeding of selected local and crossbreeds
under farmer conditions did not outperform the traditional Ankole breed,
attributable perhaps to the absence of a well organized veterinary service
and the larger nutrition requirements of improved breeds. ISAR has not
undertaken any animal nutrition research so far.
13.       Forestry and Agro-forestry Research.  Forestry research in Rwanda
started in 1934 with the establishment of the National Arboretum at
Ruhande. More recently, forestry research with Swiss financing has
focussed on a better knowledge of the various species to be used for
reafforestation and erosion control in relation to the physical
environment. This work will result in a map indicating optimum growing
conditions for each species. In this research, special attention is given
to the introduction and testing of fast growing species, other than
Eucalyptus, for use as firewood, and a survey on firewood requirements is
being undertaken. Another ongoing survey will provide, a few years hence,
a map with the distribution of indigenous tree species in Rwanda.
Agro-forestry research within ISAR has started recently with food crop
intercropping trials amongst the various tree species occurring in the
National Arboretum. Most of the agro-forestry research, however, has been
undertaken outside ISAR by the Nyabisindu project. Several agricultural
and forestry projects under MINAGRI include applied forestry research
components, the most important of which is the Swiss financed Pilot
Forestry Project (PPF) at Kibuye.



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 8
14.       New Farming Systems Research (NFSR) 2/,.  The first attempts in
what may be called NFSR have been undertaken since 1975 by the University
of Heidelberg on a hillside near Nyabisindu with German financing (GTZ).
The purpose of this research was to develop an entirely self-sustainable
agricultural production system by integrating crop production with erosion
control measures, tree cultivation, livestock (manure production through
stall feeding), composting of crop residues and green manure production.
On-station, this research has proven quite successful, but none of its
findings have been adopted by surrounding farmers. Still, elements are
useful to be pursued as component research in other Farming Systems
Research programs. The Nyabisindu station is entirely outside ISAR's
control and it is only since January 1984 that detailed technical results
are being systematically published in French.
15.       On-farm Research (OFR) with a Farming Systems Perspective (FSP)
3/. Two programs are under way, both since 1983; one in the Zaire-Nile
divide region, financed by FAC, under an execution agreement between ISAR
and GERDAT, and the second, financed under the BGM II Project (Credit 1283
RW) and executed under an agreement between ISAR and IITA. These programs
are based on understanding the present farming system, identifying the
major constraints to improvement encountered by groups of farmers, and
subsequently, devising solutions to these constraints and testing these
solutions with the farmers on their fields prior to including them in
general extension themes. Both programs are too recent to draw
conclusions. A third program, FSIP, to be financed by USAID for the middle
and high altitude region of the Rwerere station, is under preparation. A
first survey to identify the major farming constraints of the region has
been completed. The University of Arkansas is responsible for project
implementation. The program will become operational by early 1985. All
three programs are being integrated in the ISAR system. Other FSR/FSP
research activities are being undertaken under the Swiss financed PAK under
the direct responsibility of MINAGRI.
16.       Structure.  ISAR is a Government-owned institution, under the
overall control of MINAGRI. Most of its revenue to cover salaries and
operating costs is derived from Government budgetary allocations which are
voted annually as part of MINAGRI's budget. ISAR has an independent Board
of Directors of eight members. The President of ISAR's Board is the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research created in 1981. Decisions of the Board must be submitted to the
Minister of Agriculture for formal approval. The latter has the right to
veto decisions within 14 days after submission.
2/ Terminology first introduced by Dr. E. W. Simmonds in the 1984
Agriculture Seminar for Bank staff.
3/ CIMMYT termdnology, further used in this report.



-56 -             Annex I
Page 9
17.       Currently, ISAR is organized into four research departments:  (i)
central laboratories, including phytopathology and entomology; (ii) soil
conservation (amenagement du milieu), including pedology, soil physics,
soil chemistry, climatology and agricultural equipment; (iii) crop
production, including food crops, cash crops and forestry; and (iv)
livestock production. An administrative unit is in charge of general
services, accounting, documentation and station management. The present
organizational structure is not conducive to a major reorientation of
research content that would require a nationally coordinated
multidisciplinary team approach. This was generally recognized by the
Government after the publication of the ISNAR report in December 1982. At
that time, after the withdrawal of Belgian support, ISAR did not have the
management capacity nor the human and financial resources to sustain a
national agricultural research effort. This was the principle reason for
the Government's request for Bank support for agricultural research in the
framework of Government's sector strategy.
18.       ISAR's Kanower.  In December 1983, ISAR had 21 university
educated Rwandan staff (AO level), including the Director and four
department heads, leaving only 16 full-time research workers, of whom only
one holds a PhD. In early 1984, ISAR recruited six new university
graduates, bringing the total number of full-time Rwandan research workers
to 22. The situation for research technicians (A1 and A2 level combined)
is even more precarious. Currently, ISAR employs one research technician
for every two research workers.
19.       ISAR's Present Funding.  Since the departure of the Belgians and
due to the lack of adequate staff, ISAR has not been able to maintain
up-to-date accounts. The present accounting system does not reveal
accurate costs of all its operations since costs incurred in research
activities funded by other donor agencies are not incorporated in ISAR's
accounts. As part of project preparation, ISAR has had its accounts for
the year 1982 audited by an external auditor. The balance sheet and income
and expenditure accounts for the year ended December 1982 are at Annex 6.
These indicate that in 1982, ISAR received RF 60 million (US $640,000) as
subsidies, most of it from the Government, which covered salaries of ISAR's
personnel. It received about RF 35 million (US $370,000) from sales of its
products (mainly milk, meat, coffee and breeder seed), which just about
covered ISAR's other operating costs (including purchase of materials,
transport and other services). There has been no significant change in the
pattern of funding in 1983, and ISAR received about the same amount of
Government subsidy (RF 60 million) in 1984. The 1983 audit was available
at negotiations.
III. CURRENT STATUS OF AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION,
EXTENSION AND SEED PRODUCTION
20.       Higher Education.  The University of Rwuanda in Butare was created
in 1963, its Agricultural Faculty in 1977. The latrer liS aa average



-57 -             Annex I
Page 10
annual output of 12 to 14 graduates. Under the current system, students
gradnate after six years (three years general science education and three
years general agronomy and related subjects). There are no possibilities
yet for further specialization, although plans have been developed to
provide in the future for specialization in agronomy, animal husbandry and
crop husbandry. But even then, further specialization in subjects such as
plant breeding, forestry, entomology, phytopathology and animal nutrition,
can only be pursued abroad. Until recently, most graduates found a
position with MINAGRI. Because of budget limitations this year (1984), it
is expected that for the first time not all 13 graduates can be
accommodated. ISAR will take this chance to recruit a larger than usual
number and send them abroad for further training and specialization.
21.       Technical Education.  Technical training in agriculture and
veterinary sciences for A2 level staff, from which research technicians are
recruited, takes place in three schools:
(i)   The Agricultural and Veterinary School in Kabutare,
financed by FAC and EDF.
(ii)   The Agricultural School for Girls in Nyagahanga (Byumba),
financed by USAID.
(iii)   The Agro-forestry School in Nyamishaba (Kibuye), created
in 1981 and financed by Switzerland.
A fourth school in Busogo (Ruhengeri) is currently under construction with
Algerian financing, and should open its doors in September 1985. In 1981
the duration of elementary school education in Rwanda was increased from
six to eight years, and technical education reduced from seven to six
years. Thus, no technicians will be graduating in September 1986. The
number of students presently in the system and scheduled for graduation in
1984 and 1985 is as follows:
Agricultural      Veterinary
technicians     technicians
1984          32               10
1985          47               16
ISAR is expected to recruit between 1984 and 1987 a significant number of
them to improve the relation between the numbers of research workers and
technicians.  A3 level foremen and schooled workers are trained in Rwanda's
180 CERAI or the Training School for Livestock and Veterinary Services in
Rubilizi, financed under Credit 1283 RW. Training at the CERAI is for
three years after elementary school.
22.       Agricultural extension is formally organized following the public
administration structure. Each of the seven prefectures has a university
educated agronomist and a veterinarian. In principle, there is an A2 level
agricultural technician and a veterinary technician in each of the 143



- 58 -          Annex I
-58-         ~~~Page II
comuines. The extension workers (monagris) are in direct contact with the
farmers at the cellule level. The coffee and tea parastatals have their
own extension workers. The extension themes and objectives are handed down
from MINAGRI and consist of several campaigns: erosion control, coffee and
tea grove maintenance, reafforestation and thinning of banana groves. Each
area development project adds its own themes to this basic pattern. The
extension system can be characterized as follows:
ti)   Rwanda's agricultural research has not been producing or
adapting much useful agricultural technology for Rwandan
farmers. The mechanism for communicating agricultural
technology to the extension service is weak.
(ii)   Numerous projects have developed separate and
uncoordinated extension services, methods, etc. The
National Extension Service has been neglected. When
project financing period end, extension systems
established under the Project also end.
(iii)   Extension messages are most often ill-adapted to the
needs of the majority of farmers.
(iv)   Extension agents carry out many non-extension related
activities including statistics gathering. There is also
a tendency to try to impose on farmers what the
Government regards as appropriate agricultural
practices. Farmers may be fined in some cases for not
applying practices "recommended' by extension agents.
(v)  Extension agents receive little or no in-service
training, receive irregular and poor supervision, and are
not guided by systematic programs.
(vi)   Agricultural inputs are often not available, so that
farmers cannot apply recommended packages.
The result is an ineffective extension apparatus. However, there is a
growing awareness of the situation and a few promising initiatives are
being tested, e.g. the extension system developed under the Swiss financed
PAK. Also, reafforestation efforts have been reasonably successful with
the establishment of individual and communal wood lots. Following the
recent sector discussions, the Government agreed to the urgent need to
define a national extension strategy and has requested Bank assistance. A
project that would address the problems enumerated above is presently under
preparation; its main objectives would be to introduce a national extension
system and provide for improved management and training.
23.       Seed Production.  Formally, ISAR is responsible for the
production of breeder seed. Seed multiplication and distribution is the
responsibility of the Selected Seed Service (SSS) of MINAGRI. Apart from
some small quantities of sweet potato, cassava, table bananas and



_ 59 _          Annex 1
Page 12
avocadoes, the main thrust of the SSS multiplication activities is the
production of improved seed potatoes and groundnut, soybeans, wheat and
maize seeds on approximately 130 ha of scattered seed multiplication fields
(10) under force account. The total annual seed production does not exceed
260 tons. The main problems with Rwanda's seed multiplication system are:
(i) insufficient collaboration between ISAR and SSS; (ii) a chronic lack of
trained staff and infrastructure; (iii) no formalized seed control and
certification system; (iii) insufficient multi-location trials; and most
important (iv) poor quality of breeder seed.



- 60 -
Annex 2
Page 1
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Crop Research Program Descriptions
Research Program      Research Operations
Beans                Varietal prospection, introduction and collection.
Selection: pure llnes, variety mixtures, regional
adaptation and testing under mixed cropping. Breeding
through hybridization. Studies of crop associations.
Study/survey of nitrogen fixation (Rhizobium).
Post-harvest technology: on-farm storage. On-farm
uultilocation trials and pre-extension. Breeder seed
production.
Peas                  Varietal prospection, introduction and collection.
Selection/regional adaptation. Intensification
trials. Development of a seed dressing system
(Rhizobium). Breeder seed production.
Soybeans              Collection/introduction/selection.  Post-harvest
technology for human nutrition. Development of a seed
dressing system (Rhizobium).  Crop association trials;
bird protection. On-farm multilocation trials and
pre-extension. Breeder seed production/germination
capacity study.
Groundnuts            Collection/introduction/screening (drought
resistance). On-farm fertilization trials on poor
soils. Breeder seed production and storage.
Maize                 Collection/prospection/introduction.  Selection and
breeding for high altitude and semi-arid regions.
On-farm fertilization trials, studies on association
of maize with staked beans. Purification of existing
varieties and breeder seed production.
Sorghum               Collection/prospection/introduction.  Selection and
breeding. Agronomic trials: on-farm fertilization
and crop associations. Post-harvest technology
(flour technology/on-farm storage). Breeder seed
production.



-61 -                Annex 2
Page 2
Research Program      Research Operations
Wheat/triticale       Introduction/collection.  Selection/breeding
(triticale). Study of cultural methods and on-farm
fertilization. Post-harvest technology (grain and
flour quality). Breeder seed production.
Sunflower            Analysis of past research results.  Renewal of
collection and seed purification.
Introduction/screening.
Cassava              Collection/prospection/introduction.  Screening and
selection (disease and parasite resistance, regional
adaptation). Breeding. Intercropping trials.
On-farm trials. Production of healthy cuttings.
Sweet potatoes        Collection/screening/introduction.  Selection in pure
stands and crop associations. Polycross breeding and
progeny trials. Trials on cultural
practices/physiological studies.  Post-harvest
technology: nutritional value/taste and storage.
On-farm trials. Production of cuttings.
Potato                Introduction/collection/evaluation/rapid
multiplication. Agronomy/physiology: cultural
practices and crop associations. Phytopathology and
crop protection. Storage and physiology (dormancy) of
seed potatoes. On-farm trials/demonstration plots.
Coffee                Cover crops.  Studies on tree density and plantation
rejuvenation. Research on pesticides and alternative
methods of Antestiopsis control. Research on
fungicides and rust resistance. Anthracnose survey.
Collection/introduction/comparative trials. Seed
production.
Tea                   Collection/introduction/multi-location comparative
trials. Fertilizer/tea quality trials.
Pyrethrum/cinchona   No research, maintenance of existitng collection.
Banana               Prospection/introduction/collection.  Screening and
on-farm rwlti-location comparative trials. Cultural
practices/ccmparison of intercropping with pure
stands. Traditional post-harvest technology:
inventory/study of brewing losses. Multiplication.
Avocado               Collection, on-station multi-location comparative
trials. Multiplication. Research on uniformization
of rootstocks. On-farm post-harvest technology:
juice extraction and oil distillation. Phenologic
observations on best varieties.



- 62 -
Annex 3
Page 1
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Responsibilities and Qualifications of Key Personnel
Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor
1.        Under the direction of ISAR's Managing Director he would as head
of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit be responsible for:
(i)   planning, managing and supervising the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit;
(ii)    acting as senior advisor to ISAR's Managing Direcor
regarding the development of national systems for
research program planning, coordination, budgeting,
management and evaluation;
(iii)    setting up an information and data collecting system to
monitor project progress in physical and financial
terms, and preparing project reporting guidelines;
(iv)    analyzing the data collected, including the
non-quantifiable aspects of the research effort and
reporting his findings and recommandations to ISAR's
Managing Director and the Department Heads;
(v)    in coordination with and with the collaboration of the
Department Heads and their senior staff, evaluating
research results and developing a long term agricultural
research strategy;
(vi)    coordinating and preparing ISAR's annual scientific
reports;
(vii)    preparing quarterly project progress reports and the
project completion report; and
(viii)    training in technical and managerial matters all staff
directly under his orders.



-63 -            Annex 3
Page 2
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Senior Research Planning
and Evaluation Advisor would be:
(i)    a post-graduate degree in agriculture or veterinary
science or a related field;
(ii)    at least seven years experience in agricultural research
management and programming;
(iii)    actual experience with monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural research or agricultural development; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Research Department Head
3.        Under the direction of ISAR's Managing Director, he would manage
his research department and be responsible for:
Ci)    planning, supervising, managing and coordinating all
research activities of his department;
(ii)    preparing annual work programs an' budgets for each of
the research programs carried out by his department in
close liaison with the Senior Research Planning and
Evaluation Advisor and the Head of the Financial and
Administrative Service;
(iii)    managing his department's expenditures and handling all
its personnel matters;
(iv)    transmitting to the staff of his department the
recommendations and decisions of the Managing Director
and the Board of Directors that concern the department
or its personnel;
(v)    coordinating the activities of his department with those
of the other departments of ISAR and of other
organizations in Rwanda that carry out research and
experimentation in relevant fields;
(vi)    preparing quarterly progress reports and annual
scientific reports for his department In close liaison
with the Senior Research Planning and Evaluation
Advisor, and presenting these to ISAR's Research
Committee and the Managing Director;
Cvii)    planning and programming the training in technical and
managerial matters all staff under his orders;



-64 -             Annex 3
Page 3
(viii)    determining the department's needs in the area of
scientific documentation and prepare purchase orders for
books and articles for transmission to the ISAR
Documentation Center;
(ix)    representing the department in the ISAR Research
Committee;
(x)    ensuring the department's functional relations with
organizations, projects, farmers and other users of
research results so as to be constantly aware of user
needs;
(xi)    assuring the department's relations with research
institutions and research workers abroad; and
(xii)    synthesizing the department's research results in a form
suitable for the national authorities responsible for
rural development and agricultural research notably in
the context of the preparation of the agricultural
research master plan.
4.        The qualifications and experience of the Department Read should
be:
Ci)    a post-graduate degree ir agriculture or related field;
(ii)    at least five years experience in relevant aspects of
agricultural research and knowledge of small farm
production problems;
(iii)    actual experience in agricultural research management
and prngramming;
(iv)    a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities
of multidisciplinary research teams; and
(v)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Head of the Financial and Administrative Service
5.        Under the direction of ISAR's Managing Director he would be
responsible for:
(i)    designing and implementing a detailed and effective cost
accounting system that would permit budgeting per
research program and per organizational unit;
(ii)    setting up detailed budgeting procedures for use by ISAR
staff and an effective budgetary control system;



- 65 -            Annex 3
Page 4
(iii)    review of budgets prior to their approval by ISAR's
management for presentation to the Board of Governors;
(iv)    control of project financial statements of ISAR's
balance sheets including consolidated and detailed
annual budgets and quarterly cash flow projections;
(v)    designing and implementing sound financing and
management controls particularly with regard to fixed
assets, accounts receivable, accounts payable,
inventories, stocks and receipts, equipment maintenance
and vehicle operating costs;
(vi)    supervising disbursemen- records for the various donors
involved in the Project and ISAR;
(vii)    supervising all procurement procedures;
(viii)    follow-up of auditor's recommendations; and
ix)    training in technical and managerial matters all staff
directly under his orders and all other ISAR financial
and accounting staff.
6.        The qualifications and experience of the Head of the Financial
and AdminIstrative Service would be:
(i)    a university degree (or its equivalent) or membership in
a recognized professional body evidencing formal
knowledge of modern accounting theory and practice in
accordance with generally accepted international
standards;
Cii)    at least seven years professional experience, preferably
in a count.y using the OCAM accounting plans and some of
which in a commercial enterprise;
(iii)    actual experience with internal auditing, cost
accounting, budgetary control and general management;
and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Research Program Coordinator
7.        Under the direction of the Research Department Head, a Research
Program Coordinator would, apart from being an active research worker
himself, be responsible for:



- 66 -            Annex 3
Page 5
(i)    coordinating, managing and supervising the research
activities of all the research workers participating
full-time or part-time, within or outside ISAR, in the
research program;
(ii)    coordinati-ng execution of all on-station research work
with the station Heads;
(iii)    coordinating all laboratory services for his research
program with the chief of the central laboratories;
(iv)    preparing annual work programs and budgets, including
all central services' needs in coordination with his
fellow reseLrch workers, and in close liaison with and
according to guidelines from the Department Head;
(v)    supervising his team's expenditures;
(vi)    preparing quarterly progress reports and annual
scientific reports according to guidelines from the
Department Head;
Cvii)    ensuring that research results are written up for
publication in scientific and technical journals, and
are synthesized in suitable form for the extension
services; and
(Viii)    training in technical and managerial matters of all
staff under his supervision.
8.        The qualifications and experience of a Research Program
Coordinator should be:
gi)    a post-graduate degree in agriculture or related field;
(ii)    at least three years experience in agricultural
research;
(ii4)    a keen interest and proven ability in research
management and in leading a multidisciplinary research
team; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French languange.
Farming Systems Agronomist
9.        Under the direction of the Head of the Environmental Studies and
Production Systems Department, the Farming Systems Agronomist would, as a
member of the department's central team, be responsible for:



- 67 -               Annex 3
Page 6
(i)    participating in studying the main agricultural
production systems in Rwanda through agricultural
surveys and monitoring;
(ii)    coordinating and supervising agronomic aspects of all
work done on farming systems research in Rwanda,
including farm surveys and monitoring;
(iii)    on-farm testing of crop rotations and intercropping
systems in close collaboration with the Crops Research
Department;
(iv)    on-farm testing of erosion control measures and
agro-forestry in close collaboration with the Forestry
and Agro-forestry Department;
(v)    on-farm testing of soil fertility management techniques;
(vi)    preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and
execution of farming systems research;
CVii)    coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific
reports on the agronomic aspects of farming systems
research according to guidelines from the Senior
Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor;
(viii)    coordinating the farming systems research activities
with the extension services of MINAGRI and the rural
development projects;
(ix)    acting as senior advisor to the farming systems
agronomists in the regional production systems research
field teams; and
(x)    training in technical and management matters all staff
of the department.
10.       The qualifications and experience of the Farming Systems
Specialist would he:
(i)    a post-graduate degree in agriculture or related field;
(ii)    at least seven years experience in agricultural
research, part of which in farming systems research and
preferably some experience in agricultural extension;
(iii)    actual experience in multidisciplinary agricultural
research planning and programming; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.



-68 -              Annex 3
Page 7
Animal Production Systems Specialist
11.       Under the direction of the Read of the Animal Production
Department, the Animal Production Systems Specialist would be responsible
for:
(i)    studying the main animal production systems in Rwanda
through livestock surveys and monitoring;
(ii)    coordinating and supervising all work done on animal
production systems research in Rwanda, including farm
surveys and monitoring;
(iii)    on-farm testing of agriculture and livestock integration
(stall-feeding, feed supply, stables and manure
production);
(iv)    on-farm testing and studies on fodder crop production,
agricultural by-products and agrostology (grazing and
rangeland management);
(v)    preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and
execution of animal production systems research;
(vi)    coordinating the department's animal production systems
research with the Environmental Studies and Production
Systems Department;
(vii)    coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific
reports on animal production systems research according
to guidelines from the Senior Research Planning and
Evaluation Advisor;
(viii)    coordinating the animal production systems research
activities with the extension services of MINAGRI and
the rural development projects;
(ix)    acting as senior advisor to the animal production
scientists in the production systems research field
teams; and
(x)    training in technical and managerial matters all staff
of the department.
12.       The qualifications and experience of the Animal Production
Systems Specialist would be:
(i)    a post-graduate degree in animal husbandry, veterinary
science or related field;



- 69 -            Annex 3
Page 8
(ii)    at least seven years experience in animal husbandry or
livestock research, part of which in animal production
systems research and preferably some experience in
agricultural extension;
(iii)    actual experience in multidisciplinary agricultural
research planning and programming; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Agricultural Production Systems Sociologist
13.       Under the direction of the Head of the Environmental Studies and
Production Systems Department, the Systems Sociologist would be responsible
for:
Ci)    studying the main agricultural production systems in
Rwanda through surveys and monitoring of how farming
systems function (migration, social and family
relations, decision making, family labor, etc.);
(ii)    surveying and monitoring farm development:  the
application of new techniques and innovations, the role
and effectiveness of the extension service and other
development criteria;
(iii)    coordinating and supervising all work done on rural
sociology research;
(iv)    preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and
execution of rural sociology research;
(v)    coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific
reports on research in rural sociology according to
guidelines from the Senior Research Programming and
Evaluation Advisor;
(vi)    coordinating the rural sociology research activities
with the extension services of MINAGRI and the rural
development projects;
(vii)    acting as senior advisor to the rural sociologists in
the production systems research field teams; and
(viii)    training in technical and managerial matters all staff
of the department.
14.       The qualifications and experience of the Systems Sociologist
would be:



-70 -            Annex 3
7          ~~Page  9
(i)    a post-graduate degree in rural sociology or related
field;
(ii)    at least seven years experier.ce in rural sociology
research, part of which in agricultural production
systems research and preferably some experience in
agricultural extension;
(iii)    actual experience in multidisciplinary research planning
and programming; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Agricultural Production Systems Economist
15.       Under the directon of the Read of the Environmental Studies and
Production Systems Department, and as a member of the department's central
team, the Agricultural Production Systems Economist would be responsible
for:
Ci)    participating in studying the main agricultural
production systems in Rwanda through surveys and
monitoring of farm budgets, sources and importance of
monetary income, consumption patterns and marketed
production;
(ii)    surveying and monitoring of farm production, labor use,
farm and family size distribution, the decision making
process, etc.;
(iii)    studying and surveying the marketing channels of both
cash and food crops, price variations in time and space,
food shortages and surpluses, farmer reactions to price
incentives (policies), price elasticities, etc.;
(iv)    coordinating and supervising all work done on research
in agricultural economics;
(v)    preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and
execution of research in agricultural economics;
(vi)    coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific
reports on research in agricultural economics according
to guidelines from the Senior Research Programming and
Evaluation Advisor;
(vii)    coordinating the research activities in agricultural
economics with the extension services of MINAGRI and
rural development projects;



- 71 -            Annex 3
Page 10
(viii)    acting as senior advisor to the agricultural economists
in the production systems research field teams; and
(ix)    training in technical and managerial matters all staff
of the department.
16.       The qualifications and experience of the Agricultural Production
Systems Economist would be:
Ci)    a post-graduate degree in agricultural economics or
related field;
(ii)    at least seven years experience in agricultural
economics research, part of which in agricultural
production systems research and preferably some
experience in agricultural extension and rural
development;
(iii)    actl'nl experience in nultidisciplinary research planning
and rogramming; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Station Head
17.       Under the direction of the Financial and Administrative Service
Head in respect of all financial, administrative and personnel matters, and
under the Research Department Heads for all research activities, a Station
Head would be responsible for:
(i)    planning, managing and supervising all services
delivered to the research programs, to realize the full
production potential of the scientists working on his
station;
(ii)    supervising all station expenditures within the limits
established in the budgets of each research program (he
is not allowed to reallocate funds);
(iii)    handling all personnel matters for research station
staff (excluding research staff);
(iv)    coordinating the available services on his station with
the needs expressed by the research workers through
close liaison with the Research Program Coordinators;
(v)    maintaining and repairing buildings, grounds and
equipment;



- 72 -          Annex 3
-72-         ~~Pagell1
(vi)    soil preparation, cultural care, assistance in seeding
and harvesting experimental plots, the care of
livestock, seed and feed production and other service
duties described by proper authority;
(vii)    preparing, based on needs expressed by the Research
Program Coordinators, annual work programs and budgets
in close liaison with the Financial and Administrative
Service Read, directly allocatable costs would be
included in the research programs concerned;
(viii)    preparing quarterly progress reports in close liaison
with the Financial and Administrative Service Head; and
(ix)    training in technical and management matters all staff
under his orders.
18.       The qualifications and experience of a Station Head would be:
(i)    preferably a post-graduate degree in agriculture,
veterinary science or related field (AO level);
(ii)    at least ten years experience in agricultural research
in case an A2 level staff is appointed;
(iii)    a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities
of large numbers of staff;
(iv)    general management skills should preferably include
familiarity with farm management and accounting and
budgeting procedures; and
'v)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Statistician/Biometrist, Chief of the Data Processing and Statistics Unit
19.       Under the direction of the Managing Director, the Chief of the
Data Processing and Statistics Unit would be responsible for:
(i)    planning, managing and supervising all actions of his
unit;
(ii)    preparing annual work programs and budgets based on the
needs of the various research programs ane in close
coordination with the Research Program Coordinators and
Research Department Heads;
(iii)    screening, supervising and where necessary, preparing
all experiment and test designs;



- 73 -           Annex 3
Page 12
(iv)    supervising the statistical analysis and interpretation
of all research results;
(v)    supervising the writing of all computer programs;
(vi)    supervising the use of ISAR's future computer
facilities; and
tvii)    training in technical and managerial matters all
scientific staff and staff under his orders.
20.       The qualifications and experience of the Chief of the Data
Processing and Statistics Unit would be:
(i)    a post-graduate degree in statistics, mathematics or
related field;
(ii)    at least five years experience in agricultural
experiment design and analysis;
Ciii)    actual experience or training in general management
skills; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.
Technical Liaison Officer
21.       As distinct from the architects and associated professionals
whose responsibilities are executive (Annex 4) and who are legally
responsible for health and public safety, the Technical Liaison Officer
would under the direction of the Head of the Financial and Administrative
Service represent ISAR on technical matters and would be the locus of
overall project coordination and liaison in respect to civil works. The
duties of the Technical Liaison Officer would include:
Ci)    retaining professional services;
(ii)    representing ISAR in participation with the consultants
retained to prepare the development plan required for
each research station;
(iii)    arranging for the review and approval of architectural
and engineering reports, plans, specifications,
equipment lists and other material; and
(iv)    participating in the following:
(a) weekly meetings with the executive architects
during the design phase;



-74 -                Annex 3
Page 13
(b)  prequalification of contractors;
(c)  approval and supervision of bidding procedures;
(d)  adjudication and award of contracts;
(e)  monthly progress meetings with the contractors and
architects during the construction phase;
(f)  overseeing project progress, making weekly internal
progress reports and qnarterly reports to be
included in ISAR's quarterly reports to the
Association;
(g)  processing contractors' bills for payment by ISAR
and subsequent forwarding to the Association for
disbursement;
(h)  preparing a commissioning program and at the
completion of construction, participating with the
executive architects In advising ISAR on the
acceptance of the completed buildings; and
(i)  providing adminitrative and technical management of
contract maintenance and rehabilitation programs
for all physical facilities in ISAR.
22.       The qualifications and experience of the Technical Liaison
Officer would be:
(i)    an undergraduate degree or certificate in architectural
or civil engineering construction and contracting;
(ii)    at least five years experience in conducting
construction works;
(iii)    preferably some basic accounting skills; and
(iv)    a good knowledge of the French language.



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page i
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Outline of Duties of the Executive Architects
1.        In close collaboration with the Technical Liaison Officer of
ISAR, the Executive Architects (EA) will establish and manage a work
program, utilizing appropriate tools for all activities during the design,
tendering, construction and commissioning phases of project development.
2.        The EA would have prime responsibility for design and ultimate
supervision of construction of a complete and functional project which
would include architectural, engineering, site and research station
development components.
3.        The EA woud employ at his own expense structural, mechanical or
other qualified engineers as required to carry out the Project design and
implementation.
4.        Master plans (1/500) including schematic designs (1/200) will be
prepared by the EA for each of the four research centers proposed for
upgrading under the projects. These master plans would indicate existing
buildings, roads, fences, electrical distribution, water supply, etc., and
any other features affecting the location of future construction or
development. Additionally, work proposed under this project would be
identified and shown to scale on the same master plan.
5.        An "Avant-Projet" including design development drawings (1/100)
and cost estimates would be prepared following master plan preparation.
Variances in quantities of work or cost by more than 10% will be adequately
explained and justified. The "Avant-Projet' will be approved by ISAR and
IDA before proceeding with subsequent phases of project development. A
full description of architect's work to be done will be included as part of
the contract with ISAR.
6.        A "Projet d'Execution" including detailed drawings (1/50) will be
prepared by the EA on the approved "Avant-Projet" with revised and detailed
cost estimates. These drawings will include floor plans, exterior
elevations, sections through buildings as required and would be accompanied
by technical specifications, materials, quantities and other information



-76 -               Annex 4
Page 2
required to tender the Project by a schedule of unit prices based on an
approximation of quantities of work to be done. Prior to call for bids,
all tender documents would be presented to ISAR and IDA for approval.
7.        Following approval of the Avant-Projet", the EA would assist
ISAR by preparing formats and prequalifying local companies interested in
subumitting bids on this project. These formats, as well as the
prequalification procedure, would be approved by ISAR and IDA. The EA
would evaluate the prequalification and make recommendations to ISAR and
IDA as to the results.
8.        In cooperation with the Technical Liaison Officer the EA will
assist ISAR with:
(i)    prequalification of contractors;
(ii)    calling for bids;
(iii)    interpretation of contract documents;
-iv)    evaluation of bids;
Cv)    adjudication; and
(vi)    award of contracts.
9.        The EA would supervise construction of the project reinforced as
necessary by on-site clerks of the works.
10.       The EA would verify contractor's periodic payment requests and
certify that the work for which payment is requested had been
satisfactorily completed.
11.       Prepare change orders to the contract during the construction
phase.
12.       Prepare periodic reports, as required, outlining project status
and constraints in accordance with reporting needs and requirements of ISAR
and IDA.
13.       Make final inspection and accept the Project as fulfilling the
terms and conditions of the agreement between ISAR and the contractors.



- 77 -            Annex 5
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Training Scholarships
Unit
(man-years
or
Description                       man-months)   1984 /a   1985   1986   1987.  Total
MINAGRI, Master Plan Preparation
I AO                             man-years     -          1      -      -       1
Administrative and Financial Service Department
2 Ao                            man-months     -          6      3      -       9
Support Services
3 AO computer programming       man-months     -          1      2      -       3
I documentalist (AO)            man-months     -         5       5      -      10
2 librarians (A2)               man-months     -          2      2      -       4
2chemists                       man-months      1         2      1      2       6
1 Al laboratory assistant       man-mont%s     -         .3      1      1       5
Crop Production Department
8 AO scholarships Europe        man-months      -         8      4      4      16
3 2 yr AO scholarships Europe    man-years      1         2      2      1       6
3A2 scholarships Africa         man-months     -          2      2      2       6
Animal Production Department
4 AO scholarships ILCA          man-months      2         2             2       8
1 Ao scholarship France         man-months     -          6      -      -       6
4 A2 scholarships Europe        man-months      3         3      3      3      12
Environmental Studies and Production Systems Department
7 AO scholarships Europe        man-months     8          8      8      4      28
7 AO scholarships Africa
(CIMMYT)                man-months     4         4       4      2      14
10 A2 scholarships Africa        man-months     4          4      4      8      20
Forestry and Agro-forestry Department
1 AO scholarship ICRAF           man-years      1         -      -      -       I
1 AO scholarship Costa Rica      man-years     - -               1      1       2
2 AO scholarships Africa        man-months     -          I      -      1       2
1 A1 scholarship Auwtralia       man-years     -          -      1      -       I
1 A1 scholarship Africa         man-months     -          -      -      2       2
2 A2 scholarships Africa        man-months     -          -      2      2       4
4 A2 scholarships ICRAF         man-months      I         1      1      1       4
71 Total scholarships
/a Uneer P"F financing.



-78 -                Annex 6
Table 1
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ISAR's Balance Sheet
1982           1983
-- Rw F million -
Fixed Assets
Office and operational buildings                  80.0            82.5
Residential houses                                53.'            61.3
Vehicles                                          14.5            29.3
Equipment                                         90.5            93.9
Other assets                                       7.2             8.8
Works in progress                                  3.4               -
249.5          275.8
Less accumulated depreciation                    168.3   81.2   182.9   92.9
Current Assets
Debtors                                           20.1            35.8
Less provision                                     8.7             8.8
11.4           27.0
Livestock                                         27.2            26.2
Other stocks                                      10.9            13.0
Cash and bank                                     96.6  146.1    77.8  144.0
Total assets                                            227.3           236.9
=
FinancebXy: Current Liabilities
Government loan                                    4.3            13.8
Other loan                                          .6              .7
Sundry creditors                                  10.0   14.9    10.2   24.7
Long Term Loan                                            5.9             5.2
Capital and Reserves
Cunulative subsidies Government                   38.9            44.2
-  Belgian Government                          78.7           80.4
-  Swiss Government                             8.6           10.7
-  Others                                       1.9            2.0
128.1           137.3
Retailed earnings                                 78.4  206.5    69.7  207.0
Total                                                   227.3           236.9



79 -              Annex 6
Table 2
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ISAR 's Income and Expenditure Account
1982           1983
--  Rw F million --
Income and Revenues
Sales                                            32.6            44.3
Less cost of goods sold                           3.0             4.3
29.6           40.0
Increase in stock of cattle                       2.5   32.1    (1.0)  39.0
Subsidies received                                      63.3            80.3
95.4          119.3
Expenditures
Staff salaries                                   60.6            77.6
Materials and supplies consumed                  18.1            21.8
Other services                                    2.1             4.2
Transport                                          .9              .4
Interest paid                                      .6              .6
Depreciation                                     11.8            14.6
Provision for doubtful debts                      9.3  103.4      8.8  128.0
Excess of Expenditure Over Income
for the Year                                         (8.0)           (8.7)
Cumulated Revenue Reserves
Cumulated revenue as of January 1, 1981         127.5
Add adjustment of prior year's income /a          7.7
Less:   (i) reduction in total accumulated
revenue resulting from change in
accounting principle /a             48.8
(ii) loss for the year 1982               8.0
Accumulated revenues as of December 31, 1982   78.4
/a Subsidies received from procurement of fixed assets have been accounted
as capital after having been reduced by the cumulative amount for
depreciation since 1976. This accounting principle has been revised
and the amortized subsidies have been reintegrated in ISAR's capital.



- 80 -
Anex/Annexe 7
Table 1
JEAT K       IOSI MlEN
DOOEM  NULES ME SOXE NE flUINACEEITrATElIRIE
(FRO '05)
CAst tetam ax Pix tsta,ts                Devises
1984   I185     193      1987     Telaa      I   Nost#t
n -                 _m   eo a_r 
I. IHESIISSEUTS
A. UUNEhJ ENIIE CIML UAITAII                      - 30,950.0 70,413.0        -  101,265.0 40.0 40,56.0
1. IUM   fEIII CML OFEIAIDImIEL                   - 93,79.0 530613.0         -  144406.0 40.0 579762.4
C. EH10 IL1TATIN MIM CIVIL HADITATID              -  3.350.0 13,050.0        -   71,400.0 40.0  3B,.0
3. 1EMILITAIM   GENE CIL UER1aT                   - 11,135.0  9,450.0        -   20e,55.0 40.0  3,234.0
E. INUEL EMBENT IRICOLE                           -  4.530.0  6,715.0  1,130.0   12,475.0 ss.0 11,51.3
f. EWlEEIIN  EUIEIEIT ARStUE                      - 15,520.0 10.170.0        -   23,6Y0.0 7..0 24405.5
S. NOWE. EUJ 1 LADTMZE                         414.0  3439.0 13,414.0   250.0   24,ss7.0 n5.0 73n;.,.7
W. EN J  fENDf EUIIFET LANRTINE                   -  1,307.0  2o436.0        -    3423.0  99.0  3411.9
I. VERILES sfEh                              3100.0  12,200.0  9.00.0  69200.0   29900.0 95.0 23,405.0
J. TKNNEIENT WItLS                                -  4i20O.0  2,000.0        -    6,200.0 99.0  5ue0.0
K. HOWL  EDUFT K  IEM                          400.0  3A40.0  2s,00.0        -    5.100.0 30.0  4,640.0
L. OWOL EWIPEN NELEB                         1,500.0 10,767.0  6,217.0       -   183484.0 40.0  7t3936
N. HOVEL EDUET IWORKATIIUE                    350.0  4.150.0  1.400.0   700.0    66N.0 95.0  6,270.0
O. CIYEL EQUUfDTf RAIO                       1,500.0  3.000.0       -        -    4,500.0 95.0  49275.0
D. NOELE EUJIPEN   ETRIIE                         -  26o0.0  1700.0          -    4,330.0 95.0  4,161.0
P. ORWL EUIPENT  ATELIER                          -    750.0    75D0.        -    1400.0 95.0  1,421.0
U.  OLEN  EUIJIPC MTMU ATIUI                      -  2.220.0  39440.0  2,3W0.0    8460.0 95.0  P.037.0
R. HOVWEL EUIIIPEJI  TOPUUPAE                     -    930.0  1.110.0   360.0    2P400.0 95.0  2,290.0
S. FMTATI                                    6533.0 19,390.0 11,345.0  B-323.0   45,646.0 90.0 41,091.4
T. ETDES                                     9500.0 16u500.0 13,000.0  1,5O.0   3,500.0 99.0 37,53.0
U. tRTOGWI                                        -  7,500.0  7W.5.0         -   15,000.0 95.0 14,ZS.0
Totum WIIESTISSEUJITS                         224322.0 261i736.0 237,230.0 21.313.0  s4,61.0  63.4 3439941.7
U. FRUAS ME fPONCrlOHN
A. FEKSOEL OPERA? 18.WERITAIE                    -  3,030.0  3.532.o  32.0   10144.0  0.0          0.0
3. FENIIEL OPERATIIIEL TENCS                     -  79964.0  3664.0  89664.0   292n.0  0.0         0.0
C. FERS1EL WPERATIIEL APFOPTES                   - 29.532.0 3050.0 e    31,543.0   919620.0  0.0   0.0
D. PRSENEL WURTIUN EL JULRS                   141.0 381117.0 33,322.0 39.762.0  116,842.0  0.0     0.0
E. FERSNEL OERAIIOEL SAISS_E                     -  7,560.0  7,160.0  7i560.0   27W60    0.0       0.0
F. lERSle   O TISAELSSISTMIE          E   16000.0 24.000.0 24.50.0 24,000.0   Ww900.0 90.0 79200.0
S. FERSONNEL K REDOEI  I IVERTABE               -  033s6.0 109776.0 12.536.0   33M643    0.0      0.0
H. FENNEL E RIIERCIE TEDIIICI6                   - 17s150.0 19,600.0 2100.0  3s,640.0  0.0         0.0
I. -Es       K RllEE1    A9iSTAIIE IEOHZRE       - 16,00o.0 24,000.0 24000.0   640iN0.0 90.0 57,600.0
J. FSfhEL BE REDEKIE 11159I1S  D APPUT      2.000.0 19,0.0  19,000.0 16,000.0   56,00.0 90.0 s0,400.0
K. FRAUS WEATIUIUELS FEWIIURE REDECI             - 24,000.0 25000.0  26,000.0   75,000.0 75.0 56,250.0
L. RAU WEAIRAIES DI2  ESSER S                    -  9,700.0  9,700.0 11500.0   29,990.0  0.0 17o940.0
B. FRS WERATIONELS WHItES                        - 22,400.0 26,400.0 2S-B00.0   7s9600.0 30.0 62,330.0
H. FRAIl UPERATUNNELS EPLAEDNT                   -  4,31.0  6,1.0  Br350.0   19050.0  0.0          0.0
D. FRAUS WMU1UIS EIETIEN EaIFIEIQT               -  4,5O0.0  4,500.0  4D500.0   13,550.0 73.0 10P,1.0
P. ris WDRAnIOELS ENTREIEN IIFPASlTWE            - 15,000.0 15500D.0 15O00.0   45,000.0 40.0 13.000.0
O. FIS UPERATIOINELS ASSUMAES                    -  1,000.0  1400.0  20OO0.0    4.100.0  0.0       0.0
Tatu FRAIS BE FOINIE                          18,141.0 252,68.0 274,944.0 29,452.0  932,226.0 42.3 312,395.0
Trla COTS                                      40.463.0 514.425.0 5129174.0 307,765.0 1374,s7.0, 30.6 69,336.7
Prision rwr iin  phssiouen                     669.4 36,19.1 35,229.1  6,963.7   78,931.2 45.2 35,693.5
Prvision Pour hasos de Prix                    852.1 61,059.9 115,320.9 102,045.3  279,278.3 38.1 106507.6
Tatum C11T1 U FRO,   Y COIS PFID US            41984.5 U6,654.0 662,r.4.0 416,674.0 1?,7,036.4  48.4 833,57.8
-  -       -        -         a~~~~~wwfwjw   -- na-,,
Devises                                      37,365.1 303,111.3 3189746.4 17N31'.0  833,57.3  0.0    0.0



- 81 -
Anuex/Annere 7
Table 2
rimE
PUS K KOIKIC AflE
WENESM ANELES PAR m UNCE K flNUI:C41E10RE
C tAs tlan  u cnnris Pnwisies           Cots totau , cwrris  rovisiu,
(FRV 'NO)                               (USS 100)
1984   1185    1116    1937       Tote     1934  195   136   19S7  Teta
1. D'INVESTIEENTS
A. W U GENIE CIVIL NNlUATIN                      - 41P416.8 103005.5        -  1449422.3    -  427.0 1,061.9     - 1,418.
L I111 GENE CIVIL WEERATOIIEL                    - 125.12.4 74,045.8        -  19.959.1     -19299.1  763.4      - 2.061.4
C. fMADLITAnlhIU GEIE CIVIL HAIATII              - 10,743.0 18.294.6        -   29,037.5    -  110.3  1B.6      -   29.4
D. IEDIMLITATION ERIE CIVIL  MERATIOUEL          - 14,326.1 13,247.8        -   27,573.9    -  247.7  16.6       -   294.3
E. AMIW  EOIIPEINT AltAELE                       -  4,946.1  7#972.3  1,507.9   14,326.2    -   S1.0   1.2   15.5  147.7
F. RElNUEEN  EWUIPMN  SiCMLE                     - 16,760.5 119922.7        -   283683.3     -  172.8  172.1     -   295.7
S. NW! EIFEDWE   LADOIRE                      493.2  1,113.5 130P70.5   319.5   27.996.7   5.1   14.0  116.3    3.3  2136
H. UNOEML          EDUIPIEB   LANRATOIE          -  1,497.9  2.955.8        -    49353.7     -   15.4  29.4      -    U.9
1. VEIVNfIEAUX                              3.057.0 13,175.2  9,964.9  7,922.7   34,119.3  31.5  135.3  102.7   91.7  351.3
J. REN DENT VEICLUES                             -  4535.7  29344.7         -    6,990.4    -   46.3  24.2       -    70.9
K. NOU   ERMPEN   BE 11E                      450.3  4,073.6  2,607.2       -    7,136.1   4.6   42.0   26.9     -    73.d
L. NW!L  1NC   IEIKS                        1.703.i 13250.3  3,3.6          -   23,295.5  17.6  136.6    .9      -   240.2
1. JNEW! EDIJIT  DFOMATJE                     356.7  4,491.7  1.641.3   094.5   7.374.1   3.7   46.2  16.9    9.2   76.0
N. N1. EHNV         RADI                    1,S81.4  3.563.1       -        -    S245.1  17.3   36.7      -      -    54.1
L NIU      EOPNTR ECMTRIGE                       -  2,394.2  1.993.0        -    4,987.2     -   29.3  20.5      -    50.4
P. 1N1   EIU1PENT AlELIER                        -    890.9   967.2         -    1985B.1     -    9.2   20.0      -    11.7
0. NOW  E EuF DOOETATIWN                         -  2,757.1  4,637.3  42114.7   11,501.6     -   21.4  47.3   42.4   113.7
L NOW  .PSENT TUFOGRPHIE                         -  1104.   19431.4   506.0    34,2.2        -   11.4  14.3    5-2   31.4
S. FIEATIU                                  79051.2 22,053.7 14,015.8 11,207.38  54341.6  72.3  227.4  144.5  115.5  560.2
T. ETUDES                                  8e61.5 17.915.? 15.240.5  1.96.3   43,637.6  89.3  113.7  157.1   119-   449.9
0. CSTIIRARIE                                    -  9099.5  8792.6          -   16,9F2.1    -   31.5  90.6       -   174-1
Toem D'DIESTISSEIMIETS                        23467.9 3239425.5 321,29P.0 29,3P1.9  6969571.2 241.9 39334.3 39312.2  292.7 74131.1
~ ur                                _ =  m    rr .z                 z asn
U. FRiAS K F01TlHEEI
A. 0ESlEIW    OPERATllQ! tWIUERSITAIRE          -  3t532.3  49425.!  44823.3   12.7M2.2    -   36.4  '5.6   49.7  131.8
3. PERfIC!. OPERSATI(E 7ECl                     -  9,134.1 20,355.9  119832.9   31,B23.5   -   94.2  111.9  122.0  323.1
C. PEr .E  OPERATIE APPINTES                    - 33,973.6 399266.0 43,096.7  115P226.3    -  349.2  394.5  444.2 11W7.9
3. PERIOiiEL OERA IOI.JUW                    147.7 43P720.7 49.643.2 549304.?  146,316.5   1.5  450.7  501.S n .1 1.513.6
E. PErl     PRAl7IWEL SAISUERS                  -  9,M.1 10t 393.4 111P73.8   32,739.4     -  102.3  112.3  122.4   337.5
F. wssNEB DPESA1I3IE 4S51571111 7EIINMUE  16,323.0 26t043.1 23t238.1 30779.6  101,34B.3 163.3  210.1  29.1  317.3 1044.3
S. PERS1E  DK REIE      IIQVFPSITAIE            - 11,855.5 13.502.1 17,121.0   42,47B.7    -   22.2  139.2  176.5  437.?
H. PERIWOEI.OE RERCIME TECHNICIENS              - 19,671.3 24.553.4 21,36.6   73-866.5     -  D2.   253.2  305.5   761.5
1.  ROJUEL IIDE RE  E ASSIS7AICE TECNIE         - 17,335.4 3,238.1 30,779.6   769353.1     -  17B.7  291.1  717.3  717.1
J. PERSOF31! BE REC3ERCIE IISSIONS B API1  2,041.0 20,585.B 22,355.2 20,519.7   65.501.7  21.0  212.2  230.5  211.'  675.3
K. FRAIS GPEJATIDNNELS FOURNTMS RECER3E         - 27570.1 31S219.7 35,390.6   Y4.180.4     -  234.2  321.9  364.9   9.?
L. FRAIS  EATIOELS FOnIMS SERICES               - 10.090.9 122242.9 ISP121.1   39,155.0    -  104.0  12.2  163.1  393.4
M. FRAI TERnONELS WILES                         - 2S,649.1 32P350.3 40,418.4   93,917.6    -  264.4  33.7  416.7 1,019.3
N. rAIS WMTIlIELS DLCOEIT                       -  5239.0  89354.3 11,974.2   25,Sr7.4    -   54.0  86.1  123.4  263.6
0. FRAIS WAn IULs ENRITE1   IIIBEIEJT           -  5.169.4  5,619.5  6125.3   16,914.2     -   53.3  57.9   63.1   174.4
P. FRAISl IFfVATIOELS ENTRETIEN IRMSTITRICTE    - 17,620.6 199199.7 20,927.7   57,743.0    -  131.7  197.9  215.7  515.3
a. FRAIlS EERATXIIS ASSIMNMCES                  -  1,204.4  19734  2i68.1    6.045.?       -   12.4  20.3   79.6   62.3
Totaux FRS BE FCNCTIINHEIIENIT                18.516.7 289322B.5 341,435.9 318.24.1 1.036.465.2 190.1 2,971.4 3,520.0 4,002.9 10.615.2
Ta Tc   -60 6=== 4==  13=   ==  L_.7 _=n _Srns 18st
Totai l0l1 1U 130.11? Y CWIP015 PROVhISIONS   41,994.5 611,654.0 662,724.0 416,674.0 1,733.036.4 432.3 6,305.7 6B332-2 4:29.6 17,366.4
===         C== a.s zs..r..                     n  5w    zeinGmi



mm
P5IE K ItOmE moL
KCW1S  ARM MURK CI EM tA        It K FIWCN1/CAIE IE
IFFII 0001
DIECIINi           DOIEtICON,                                                                                A011UI AX
XIDMTEIT          IUMEIENT                                                                                   FACULTES DE L              ProclaIm Foui
AMINIIsrIIF ET   ADISIISIRATIF El                                   IEM a0t2 A 20I2  El tirews
FIMKCIER, SEVICES    FIMNIERI   DOUARowfT  XIAMTOEHT   ET'lE NILIEU               WlARICTMN       WMAATIOI           DE ULAless
(CUlS a        SEVICES ICOTS  PRODUCIION   POWCIICN   ET S1STEES K   FCfStUCIE El  PLU  OI1ECIEI1R  5EOGWO IE K
IWIIININIIINVI       FEClMUCUMD       Y15E11E       MIIILE       FROWCTION    A6O1FORISTERIE   FECHEK1IE           L Ut         TgtewA       I  fmLat
1, D'IJITSIISIT
A. NW"J GEIE CIYIL  121ITAION                              1011265,0                 -            -            -               *               -               -              -     015.20.0   20.0 20,253,0
3, NIJ  6NOt CtVIL OKIAhIOEL                               144444.0                                     -                      -               -               -              -    1444*O   N20.  2.031.2
C. IDWILITATIOI Cal1 CIVIL WJITATIOI                        21400.0                                              -                              -              -              -    21,400.0  15.0  38210.0
3, WMIITA1II  BORIE CIVIL OPEA2IONNEL                       20158,0                  -            -            -               -               -               *              -    20.5650   15.0 J.G07,S
E. NOWG  EOUIMIT A3ICO3                                      S.975,0                 *            *            *                                -                       3-500,0    12.475,0   0-0        0.0
F. rOVAUoLtr Ewor AMICOLE                                   25.690.0                                                                            -              -24N,o.    0.0                            0.0
5. NM     EOUIPIIT Lt0A10I1E                                22,302.0                 -      1445,0                                                                          0 -  -  -  1750,0    24587.0    0.0  0.0
H, RZIWYEN.W        E1U01IT LAACAOIRE                        1,701.0                 *        532.0      11500,0               -                -              -              -      3.S23,0   0,0       0.0
1. VEHIClES    1M                                           281000.0                 *            -            *               -               -         200.0                -    29i900.0   0.0        0.0
J.  LMO&ULLEI YEHICULES                                      61200.0                 -            -            *                               -               -              -      61200.0   0.0       0.0
K. ONWEL EMUIF!T K IUREAU                                    5,60.0                  -            -            -               -                -           200.0             -      5,300.0  10.0   5.OO
Ls. NM&V. EOUIPEVU  MIELES                                   17300,0                 *            -            -           4240                             M 150.0           -    25,434.0  10.0  1343.4
H. OWM  E) 091011 t INF0TMIAIE                               2404,0                  -            -            -               -                            700.0       3,500.0      6640.0   0.0        0,0
1. Am      EOUEPWIT WIG                                       4500.0                 -            -            -               -                -               *             -      4,500.0  10.0   450.0
De aOM   w wUIti tLtTIIWE                                    4.380,0                             4-* -                                                  -                     -      480.0   0.0         0.0
P. NOUVE WRIPEJWII AITIER                                     11500.0                *            -            *               -                -               -             -      1500.0   10.0   150.0
0. NMM L EWIEIDIMT W1IIA011                                  3140,0                  -            -            -               -                -                             -       144060  15.0  1.2A9.0
3. OML EQUImFI IOP&MIOUC                                           *                 -            -            -         2400.0                 -                                    2,400.0  10.0   240.0
S. rFoIIA n                                                   490O                   -       .121,e0     8240.0         19,470.0          5,710.0         100.0               -    45,44,0    5.0  2,232.3
T. ETUXES                                                   35.000.0           4,580.0            -                            -               -               -              -     390500.0   0.0       0.0
U. CMTOAMIIIE                                                       -----                                                                 1000            5.00.0              -     15000,0    0.0       0.0                      I
Tate  0 169116U12                                             ;U292,0             4,500.0    11.100,0      71744,0         22,344.0         15,710.0        91550.0        21750.0   5424C01.0  11.s 62.251,7                       1
11 FRA31 K F116110001
Al  0    O PE WAIIEL UNIYERSITAIRE                                -              ,240.0          -            -               -                -          004.0              -     10i44,0    0.0       0.0
1. Mf100  WIAATIIIOC. TEHOICIENS                                  -          24.500,0            -            -               -                -           702.0             -     25.202,0  00        0.0
C, PE NE OIRAI2AIO   APFORITES                                    -          50i424.0            -            -               *                -         2106.0              -      1,620.0   0.0       0.0
5. PRS1E0 GICRATIOCI. JSIAIEIS                                             118142.0             -            -               -                -                             -    116,342.0   0.0       0,0
E. PFUSWEL WPAIO   UAISONNIER.9                                              227UO6.0            -                                             -                             -    226400.0   25.0  3,402.0
F .   EL  tf *0111   A511S16    IEUOIEOUI                         -           4:000.0            -            -               *                -        24OOO.0             -    U1000.0   0.0         0*0
6, P150812. K  1RE010  UNIYERSITAIE                                                      Ih- 27.1*8    3,040.0         6.600.0          5,28,0                              -     33.648.4   0.0       0.0
H. PEIL  K AE15012  TEOCIICIENI                                                     -    23.450,0    10,500.0          10,150,0         14.15010              *                    58* 45060   0.0      0.0
1. PEISO . K 11000 6      8U5ISTAI1 E TECC I                      -                 *            -     43.000          216000.0                -              --    6410000   0.0                       0.0
Jo K45001   OE KOO"  MISSIONS B79D # l                                        9,000.0       40040,    13.00.0           U400.0           7.00.0         15,040.0             -    564000,0   0.0        0.0
K. FRAIS W0TIOIES FOWNITARESII1          )                                   1240.0                                                                                    3.000.0    1500.10   5.0  3,75.0
L. FRAIS OREIIOILS FOI ITfURES SERVICES                                      270000-                                                           -         1,400.0       1WM00.0     20s9000    5,0  Iw405,0
H. FRAIS  0E1ATINEL0 1  EHIC4IULS                                            75.00.0             -            -               -                -         3 -00.0             -    73,600.0   5.0 32130.0
M. FAIS OILRATIO  IIIELSWLT                                                 181000.0            -            -               -                -           450.0         6.0    19.050,0   5.0   92.5
0. FAIAS XERAIIOIIIIEU EI III EOIUIPIEN                           -          2050.0              -            -               -                *        3000.0                     13.500.0   5-0   675.0
P. FEAIS OIRAIIWIELS Di1TRE71E1   IWRASRUCTRIU                               45,0,0              -            *               -                -                             -     U O41000.0    5.0  2.2s5.0
0. FEAIS WOATIOI8S ASSaJJ*IS                                     4-500.0                         -            *               -                -               -             -      44500.0    5.0   225.0
ola.m FERIS DE FOHTIOIn3T-                                                      587,6U.0      47.251,0    15440.0          2810.0            UO660         51,242.0       5100.0   932.226.0   2.0 16.6)0.5              3 l
lIl.COUTS                                                      42042.0           51216.0    58363.0    833200.0             611054.0         42340.0         40,53210      232t.40  1,274,327.0   5.7 731931.2               F,
Provisiom  Pour  lisr uw  chslowr                            s#795.s           126.0020        456.4        312.0        12256.9             2MI5           567.5         255.0   71.S31.2   0.0         0.0         C 
ProislIm  cur hwusses de c2lx                                 30.623.         1503          230 l         5.5I0.0        12.414I           344.5          10U648.1       2.241,3    271021n.3   5.0 134910.6           1'
Tolaux CUIS P PROUET.I Y 101S PROY15INS                        603,356.7         743U1593    72:490.3    90031.0            74,727.0         51,092.0       72.128.2       14,452.3  10733,036.4   5.4 92.9l.7          L 
siuiauuaumas a   rai  aav s"swW.... azufls... ,u   8204838.338  *415   au11r:r _a:us3   m   f     etaamnafss83  tmars3ts3  tassIlow8 833      ss3 a83    s::83 3 3 3
bllri                                                       3121000.1         2n2.31,2      1341.3    72.33.5            4 ,12.7          24.209,9        57,13280      13,44.4      S5311.3   4.3 4lO544.5
-                                                                   - -       --      --    __    ...........  .    .__.   .......... . . .. .. _ ...__... ___ .......... _... ._____ ................ .... ... ... _......._... _. _



- 83 -
Annex 8
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
(US S'OOO)
Cumulative
disbursements
IDA fiscal year                                Quarterly          at end of
and quarter                                disbursements         quarter
1985
December  31. 1984 /b                             600                 600
March     31, 1985 7i                             300                 900
June      30, 1985                                300               1,200
1986
September 30, 1985                                900               2,100
December  31, 1985                                350               2,450
March     31, 1986                                300               2,750
June      30, 1986                                400               3,150
1987
September 30, 1986                                500               3,650
December  31, 1986                                600               4,250
March     31, 1987                                600               4,850
June      30, 1987                                600               5,450
1988
September 30, 1987                                600               6,050
December  31, 1987                                900               6,950
March     31, 1988                                600               7,550
June      30, 1988                                650               8,200
1989
September 30, 1988                                550               8,750
December  31, 1988 /d                             650               9,400
March     31, 1989                                600              10,000
June      30, 1989                                600              10,600
1990
September 30, 1989                                300              10,900
December  31, 1989 Ie                             600              11,500
Ia  Current IDA disbursement profile for Rwanda agricultural projects
(average five year project design) provides for seven years from the
year of Board presentation. For the three year project design, above
disbursement schedule is for five years from the year of Board
presentation.
lb  Disbursement under PPF since December 31, 1983.
/c  Expected date of Credit effectiveness.
{d  Expected date of project completion.
Ie  Expected closing date of Credit.



- 84 -
Annex 9
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Internal Rates of Return to AgrPeultural Research Expenditures
Internal
Time       rate of
Commodity           Country          Study                         period    return (X)
Maize               U.S.A.           Grilliches (1958)             1940-55     35- 40
Sorghum             U.S.A.           Grilliches (1958)             1940-57       20
Sugarcane           India            Evenson (1969)                   -          60
Wheat               Mexico           Ardito-Barletta (1970)        1943-63       90
Maize               Mexico           Ardito-Barletta (1970)        1943-63        35
Cotton              Brazil           Ayer (1970)                   1924-67       77
Maize               Peru             Hines (1972)                  1954-67     25- 40
Maize and
cultivation
package         Peru              Hines (1972)                 1954-67      50- 55
Rice                Columbia         Ardila (1973)                 1957-72     58- 82
Rice                Columbia         Scobie (1978)                 1957-74     79-101
Rice                Asia             Evenson (1978)                1960-75     75-102
Aggregate Studies
All agriculture    U.S.A.            Evenson (1968)                1949-59       47
All agriculture    India             Jha & Evenson (1970)          1953-71       40
Crops               Mexico           Ardito-Barletta (1970)           -        45- 93
International   Kislev and Evenson (1973)   1955-68
Applied research   LDCS                                                          42
DCs                                                          21
Agriculture
scientific
research        LDCS                                                          60
Dcs                                                          36
Source: Senegal Agricultural Research Project Preparation Report by IADS, July 1979.



- 85 -
Annex 10
Page   1
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
Document
No.
A. Sector or sub-sector reports and studies:
Al   The National Agricultural Research System of Rwanda,
February 1983.                                   (English) 109.129A1
(French) 109.129A2
A2   Agricultural Research in Rwanda: Assessment and
Perspectives, ISNAR, September 1983.                        109.129B
A3   La Production de Semences SMlection6es au Rwanda et
les Besoins d'Assistance, R. B. Contant, ISNAR, 1983.    109.129C
B. Project related reports and studies:
BI   Report to the World Bank on a Visit to Rubona, Songa,
PNAP and Karama, W. F. Pieters, November 1983.              109.129D
B2   Recherches Halieutiques (Peches-Aquaculture), Travaux
de recherches 6ffectuCes par le Prof. Gerard J. D.
Mahy, de 1975 a 1983, Universite Nationale du Rwanda,
octobre 1983.                                               109.129E
B3   La Recherche Zootechnique au Rwanda, Guido
Grijsseels, ILCA, octobre 1983 (draft).                     109.129F
B4   Compte Rendu des Travaux du Departement "Production
Vegetale" en 1982, ISAR, avril 1983.                        109.129G
B5   Programme National pour l'Amelioration de la Pomme de
Terre (PNAP), ISAR, Rapport Annuel 1983.                    109.129H
B6   Preliminary Survey of Food Crop Farming Systems in
the Bugesera Region of Rwanda, IITA, ISAR and BGH II,
1983.                                                       109.129I
B7   Etude des Infrastructures, ISAR, Rapport de mission
du 27/9 au 11/10/83, Serge Gilly.                           109.129J
B8   Project de Recherche Lgricole au Rwanda, M. Imbert
(RMEA), 25 octobre 1983, (draft) (Annexes 1 to 6).          109.129K
B9   Programme de Recherche sur les Systames de Production,
J. Lefort, IFARC, dgcembre 1983/janvier 1984.               109.129L
B1O  Projet de Creation d'un Centre de Selection et
d'Amelioration des Petits Ruminants, ISAR, juin 1983.    109.129M



- 86 -             Annex 10
Page   2
Document
No.
Bl Farming Systems Improvement Project, Preliminary
Diagnostic Survey of Five Communes of Ruhengeri
Prefecture, Rwanda, Drs. Franzel, B. Paul and
Yates, University of Arkansas Division of
Agriculture, February 1984.                                 109.129N
B12  Une Etude de R6amnagement et d'Extension des Centres
de 1'ISAR, ARCHITECHNA, avril 1984.                         109.1290
B13 Arboretum de Ruhande, Butare, ISAR et Division de
Sylviculture.                                               109.129P
B14 Loi No 21/82 du 10 juin 1982 portant restructuration
de 1'ISAR.                                                  109.129Q
B15 Propositions de Recherche sur l'Agro-foresterie au
Rwanda, M. Baumer, ICRAF, 23 mars 1984.                     1LJ.129R
B16  Rapport Financier pour 1'Exercice Cl8ture le 31
decembre 1982, Chasal du MHe & Co., 31 decembre 1982.    109.129S
B17 Rapport d'audit sur les comptes annuels au
31 decembre 1983, Helios                                    109.129U
C. Implementation:
Cl   Implementation Volume (Table of Contents):         (French) 109.129T
Annexe 1 - Les Recherches a l'ISAR sur les
Productions Vegetales
Annexe 2  -  La Recherche Zootechnique au Rwanda
Annexe 3  -  Le Nouveau Dgpartement de Recherche
sur les Systemes de Production
de l'ISAR
Annexe 4  -  Le SystAme de Documentation a l'ISAR
Annexe 5  -  Tableaux des Cofuts Detailles



4-taz  t'WC   IC              S l' U    V-.-~-
t w:=>woows n^>'c                  -    -"s 'I
h                                        -1  4  09  ~0    O-'  _,.W*  -  *  * a
2    E S 3 .n~c E
u:J*                               *UI~~~~~~~~C.         E
l S   j  .   ....------- - --- - - --- -- -- - - -
z Lt    i   ;   X it                               S
V        2~~~-  L8 
21                                                                      LP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*L
uU..
-    S.~~~~~r-2
C-3
LO~~~~~



- 88 -
aart 2
UIANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PR')JECT
Inplementation Schedule
Calendar Year:                                1984                  1985                 1986                 1987
Quarter:                               I   1I   III   IV   I   11  EII   IV   I   El   III  IV   I   II   III  IV
Appralsal
Negotiations
board presentation                                          x
Civil Works
Architectural design
BlddIng
Execution of works:
Rubona
Songa
Karams
tubengeri/Kinigi (IFAD)
Tavt ra
Kiga-l Liaison Office
Recruitment of Key Staff
Senior Research Prograrning
and Evaluation Advisor
limancial Director
Farming Systems Agronomist (USAID)
Agricultural Economist
Rural Sociologist (local staff)
Ailal Production Systens
SpecialIst
Aulmal Nutrition Scientist
hometris t/Statistician (USAID)
Doeumentalist (local staff)
Technical Liaison Officer
(local staff)
Agricultural Research Master Plan
Recrultuent Agricultural Econoidst
Haster plan outline
Kaster plan preparation and
additlonal studies
Review (IDA and Government)
Preparation Second Agricultural
Uasaarch Project



;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR IBMD1
RWANDA                                                                                                . -                      .-   ._._.e
First Agncultural R    arch Project                                                        UGANDA
/-femier Projet de Recherche Agrioole                                                                                       ,*,
*  lIA &m 016U.M" IwO                                                                                                   S
-~X~                     @G@^4"l R^I$nic$Pwjea-P"F**U <~' - ' > TANZANIA
Aq. mO aZIREX
=                                                                                                                            I,tr_   i P"  's-   /x@ \''    R\''';l   \, 2 'u
Fm  iL.ei D;arn,w. P\pIG  aNl,a                                                            *  'MK                12
e~    wm~~a L-a.j                             )| A11                                                                                     J        IAKAGERA
l_ =- -
irn ma~p as                                                                                                               NATIONAL
PaM"                                                                                                                    *      PARK
10  View                                                                                         W                             F v  
Rdba AgrblAxRsglo
. -           ^ ,r/                  /.        \/                         =       =_w  =,       ;t;  a   ss           Fd,+~~~~~~~~~~~~/.*g
3wLa&& *ee                                                     BXI
Z.b..ND.D.id.        ..cr,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4...
e0                                                2
11                                                           .        O\ i                                                              ANBRND  ZIA(~   IDAI
12                                                                                                          BURUDAIRENV
biLls:-         N.             BURUNDI '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '   ~~~~~~               a ~~~~~ ~~~   ,    >  j;:
BURUNDI                                               V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMZANIA   /
I.    I  F
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUS1J



