Docmen of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USE ONY
Rhpot N.  12590
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WA~
AGRICULTURAL RESFARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1546-RN)
DEBCBER 10, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12590
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and IndiAn Ocean Department
Africa Region
Tks document has a resticted distibudon and may be used by recpiens oiny In dte peforman  of
their officid duts. Its contents may not othwbise be dilosed witdho  Wold Bank aunwoidaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Franc Rwandais (FRw)
FRw = US$1.00
1985        -              101.3
1986        -              87.6
1987        -              79.7
1988        -              76.5
1989        -              80.0
1990        -              82.6
1991        -              125.1
10i592        -              137.0
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CAT          Interntional Center for Tropical Agriculture (Centre international
d'agronomie tropicale)
CIP            tional Center for Potatoes (Centre intematonal de la pomme de
terre)
EEC          European Economic Community
GOR          Government of Rwanda
GIZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Agence de copEration
technique - Allemagne)
ICRAF        Interational Center for Research in Agro-festry
IL'RC        International Development Research Center
IFAD         lnemational Fund for Agricultural Development
ILCA         International Livestock Center for Africa
ISAR         Rwandese Institute for Agricultmal Research (Insfftut des sciences
agronomiques du Rwanda)
ISNAR        International Service for National Agricultural Research
PRAPAC       Regional Program for the Improvement of Potatoes in Central Africa
(Programme rdegional d'am6lioration de la pomme de terre en Afrique
Cerle)
UNR          National University of Rwanda (Universite nationale du Rwanda)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
1 January - 31 December



liOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WashbVton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Offie f DOrd"or4nal
Op.rMone Evalualbn
December 10, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECITORS AND THE PRESID
SUBJECfl   Project Completion Report on Rwanda
AMdcultural Rsarch Project (et 1546RW )
Attached is a copy of the report entitled Project Completion Report - Rwanda - Agricultural
Research Project (Credit 1546-RW)" prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country
Department Im Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borower.
The project outcome is considered satisfactory, because it reached its principal objective of
developing a national research plan while strengthening the institutional and physical infrastructure
for a follow-on, comprehensive research operation.
Sustainabilit is likel assuming successful impementaton of the follow-on project approved
in October, 1993. Expansion of the cadre of trained scientists, coordination of research activities
among donor organizations, and release of proven new technologies were less than projected. hes
objectives were over-optimistic, and are carried forward into the new operation.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality.
The project may be audited upon completion of the follow-on project
Attachment
This docunen has a resd distributon and may be used by reclpiQnts only In the pefmnc o
th  offica dute  Us cornwets may not oUthis be diclosed wht World Bank authruon



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COIPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL  RSEARCrH PROJECT
(Cr. 1546-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . .................................................. i
EVALUATION SUAMMARY ............................................... i
PART k PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANK  ERSPETE                                 ........  1
PtoiextIdendt ~~~~~............                 .":  .......,1
ProjeIdentity ....................... 1
Brojeut Objecti.es and escip .n............1........... 
Project Objeegn   and Otmieption  ..............................  I
Peroect esinp  and Organization .....................  2
Prject .s.Its..6.................... 
I?roject Sustainabsi ............                                           6
Proectstaeinmabnit ...................................  6
Bank's Performance ......................  7
Boffower's Performnance........................                             7
Consultnte' Performance .................................  7
PART II: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPE                     ......... 8
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................  16
Table 1: Related IDA Credits ...........     ............................  16
Table 2  Project Tunetable .............     ............................  17
Table 3: Credit Dsbursements ..........       ............................  18
Table 4: Project  p entation....................  19
Table 5: Projec Costs and Fmancing .................................. 22
Table 6: Status ofCovenants .............     ........................... 23
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources       .....................................  24
A4NNEXCI .....  .                                                                 26
Map BRD 18308
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authod2ation.



i
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECr
(Cr. 154-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Project CDompletion Report (PCR) for the Agricutural Resarcb Project,
Phase L for which Credit No. 1546-RW in the amount of SDR 11.7 million (US$11.5 milion
equivalent) was approved on Februay 12, 1985. The credit was closed on December 31, 1991,
after a three year exensio;  The last disbursement took plae on April 30, 1992, at which time
the undisbured balance of SDR 2.3 mfllion (US$2.3 million equvlent) was cancelled.
The PCR (Parts I and  l) was finalized by the Agriculture Operations Division, South-
Central and Indian Ooean Department of the Africa Region. The draft report was prepared by
the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program, folowing a field viSit
in October 1992. It is based on project documentation such as the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Development Credit Agreement, project correspondence, and supervison reports. A copy of the
report was sent to the Borrower on April 14, 1993, with a request for comments. These
comments are presented as Part I of this repor.



PROECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCIH PROJECr
(Cr. 1546RW)
EVALUATnON SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
1.    Plcy contaext Smce the 1970s, the Government of Rwand (GOR) has had three basic
objectiv  for the agricultur  sector. food self-sufficiency, import sibstituton, and expo
promotion and diversication. These objetves tansated into the following development
prorties:  (i) intensification of crop and livestock production; (i) soil consewation and
improvement of soil fertDity, (imi) improved management and rational exploitation of agricultural
:and; (iv) regional specialization in production as a function of agro-ecological potential; and (v)
implementation of agricultural interventions within the framework of a sectoral or crop specfic
approach. To achieve these objectves, the GOR has reLied heavily on donor financed rral
development projects, which were successful in the field of road and infaucture developmet
and soil conservation, but could not prevent a decline in productivity due to inreasing land
pressure, and related losses in sofl fertility, and a lack of new technologies to address these isues
2.    Faced with the need for productivity increases, the GOR initiated, witd support from the
International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), a review of the agriculural
research system in the early 1980s and took the first steps to strengthen the Agricultural Research
Institute of Rwanda (ISAR). The resulting project was conceived as the first phase of a long-
term development program for a problem solving oriented agricultural research systea.
Ojecdvs and Componeml
3.    The project aimed at: (i) preparing a research master plan as the basis for the long-term
development of agrcultural research; (ii) streamlining ISAR's researh and financial management
system though the introduction of program based research and research financing and (iii)
establishing a long-term manpower development plan Major project components included: (i)
the preparation of the research masterplan; (ii) the reorganization of ISAR; (iii) intucton
and/or strengthening of multffdisciplinary research teams in crop and liveb * research and the
establishment of three regional Farming Systems Research Groups; (.,l rehabilitation and
extension of ISAR's infrastructure; (v) vehicles and research equipment; and (vi) operating eosts.
The IDA credit of SDR 11.7 million was exptd to cover about 65% of total project costs and
was to be disbursed over a period of three years (1985-1988).
4.    The project objectives, components and time-frame proved to be too ambitious and the
credit agrement had to be extended twice (1988 and 1989) until December 31, 1991 when the
credit closed. The undisbursed balance in the amount of SDR 2.3 milion (20% of the credit)
was cancelied on April 30, 1992. The main reasons for the long implementation delay were: (i)



lv
the extremely difcut budgetay situadon, aggavated by an uncontroled increase in mainly
subordinate staff () the vy slow   ple   tion of al component rlated to research
prgamming and management, including the preparation of the resar  mteplan  and (ifi)
pmcement problems The latter, however, were overcome as soon as ISAR staff had been
familarized with IDA prourement procedures, as denstrated by the smooth    entati
of the infastructue and equipment components in Years 2 to 4 of project impl tation
Actual project costs amounted to US$17.2 million (96 percent of estimates), with Goernment
contributing about US$5.1 milion (78 percent of estimates) and IDA USI21 milion (105
percent of estimates).
ResIII
5.    The main project objective - to pave the way for the establishent of a log-term
development plan for agricultural research - has been achieved. The-research masterplan has
proven to tX a solid basis for the preparation of the second phase project at present being
processed by IDA. The proposals for institutional s ning of ISAR - progam based
planning, budgeting and evaluation of research activities, etablihment of four Research
Departments, decentralization of research management - were changed in the course of project
implementation and new proposals were approved by GOR as part of second phase project
preparation.
6.    Manpower development achieved mixed results. The number of research staff doubled
over the project period but postgraduate training is still largely insufficient and only some 30%
of the research staff have a postgraduate degree. Postgraduate, particularly ong-term, taining
is mainly provided by bilateral sources and the kind of training depends more on the availability
of grant scholarships than on a long-term plan to develop manpower based on ISARs needs.
7.    The project was not designed to support individual research programs except for livestock
research where the project proposed substantial investments in infrastructure and technical
assistance. This program, however, never got off the ground and progress in livestock research
during the project period was negligible. Other research programs benefitted from project
investments (e.g. inErastructure, vehicles, equipment etc.) and from support to operating expenses.
Successful research results, particularly in the development of disease resistant bean and root crop
varieties, have been extended to farmes
&     During the project period the number and quality of publications in journals and
conference proceedings have increased and annual reports of a h-gh standard have been published
since 1989.
S      _ nabil
9.    Sustainablity of agricultural research under the economic conditions of Rwanda is still the
most crucial issue and long-term agricultunl research development can only be assured ifi (i)
there is a cear commitment by the GOR to agricultural research; (ii) funding of research on
industrial crops is at least partly provided by the respective industries; and (iii) the donor
community agrees to a long-term support program for ISAR's research activities. Thee issu
are addressed in the second phase project



v
Leons lAmmed
10.   The important lessons from this first phase Agricultural Research Project are:
(i)   the establishment of a national strategy for agricltura research and of related
proposals for the reorganization of a national agricultral research system cannot be
achieved in a short lived project but needs time to be developed and accepted by all
decision makers;
(ii)   investment in strengthening research services is jeopardized if the necessary level of
recurrent funding is not maintained to keep them operating effectively;
(iii)  under a long-term constrained budget situation like in Rwanda agricultural research
should take full advantage of technologies generated by regional and international
research organizatons and concentrate on testing and - if needed - adapting them to
local conditions;
(iv)   the construction of new research infrastructure should not precede the approval of a
long-term research development plan, neither should a training program be executed
without the benefit of a human resource development plan;
(v)   large increases in research and support staff have not resulted in increases in research
efficiency or productivity; and
(vi)   donor coordination is of vital importance for a sustained research development. A
coordinating funding mechanism would be required through which all funding for
research expenditure would be screened. This does not necessarily mean a pooling
of all Government and donor funds but rather a pooling of research efforts and
programs which leaves Governments the choice of requesting individual donor
fnding for any set of activities within the parameters of the research masterplan.
These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the follow-on project,



PROJECr COMPLEIION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESARCH PROJECI
(Cr. 1546-RW)
PART E PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPEtIV
1.    Prect Idenoe
Project Name       :     Agricultural Research Project
Credit No.         :     1546-RW
RVP Unit           :     AF3AG
Country            :     Rwanda
Sector                   Agriculture
Sub-sector               Agricultural Reseach
v  B }*MM
2.1   Polc cantexL Since the 1970s, the Govenmment of Rwanda (GOR) has had three basic
objectves for the agricultural sector. food self-sufficiency, import substitution, and export
promotion and diverification. These Government objectives tlated into the following
development priorities: (i) intensification of crop and livestock pruduction; (ii) soil coefvation
and improvement of soil fertlity, (iii) improved management and rational exploitation of
agriultural land; (iv) regional specialization in production as a function of agroecological
potential; and (v) implementation of agricultural interventions vithin the frmeork of a sectoral
or crop specific approach. To achieve these objectives, the GOR has relid heavily on donor
financed rural development projects, which were successful in the field of road and infrastructure
development and soil conservation, but could not prevent a decline in productivity due to
increasing land pressure, and related losses in soil ferdlity, and a lack of new technologies to
addres these issues.
2.2 Faced with the need for productivity increases, the GOR initiated with support from the
International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), a revew of the agricultural
reserch system in the early 1980s and took t'1e first steps to strengthen the Agricltural Reseach
Institute of Rwanda (ISAR). The resulting project was conceived as a first phase of a long-term
development of a problem soling oriented agricultural reseach system.
3.    Ptoj  Objectv  and Desupton
3.1   The project aimed at (i) preparing a research masterplan as the basis for the long-term
development of agricultural research; (ii) streamlining ISARs research and financial managment
system through the introduction of program based research financing, and (iii) establishing a bng-
term manpower development plan. Major project components included: (i) establishment of a
research masterplan, (ii) strengthening of research management programming, evaluation and



2
review through the reorganization of ISAR a.d establishing appropriate procedures for the
formuladon of research programs; (iWi) introduction and/or strengthening of multi-disciplinary
research teams in crop and livestock research (five mu uz-disciplinaty crop research teams dealing
with 13 crop research programs, a central animal prodixtion systems research unit and livestock
research groups at three stations) and the strengthening and coordination of three tegional
Farming Systems Research (FSR) programs, (iv) establishment of a documentation system; (v)
rehabilitation and extension of ISAR's infrastructure; (vi) vehicles, and research and eperimental
equipment; and (vii) operating costs. 'Te project was to be implemented over three years (1985-
1988).
4.    Ptiect Despl and  Q%Wo
4.1   Poj  pc m    Prnject identfication was based on an ISNAR anays of Rwanda's
research system (1982) and a national seminar on agricultural research held in early 1983. ISAR,
with ISNAR and IDA support, prepared working documents on crop, lvestock and farming
systems research, infstucture rehabilitation and construction, equipment requirements and
research documentation, which were consolidated in a preparation document by an IDA/ASNAR
mssion (late 1983). The project was appraised in early 1984 with support from ISNAR and the
International I.vestock Center for Africa (ILCA), and negotiations took place late 1984.
4.2   Desin Considering the limited time-frame and the weak insttutonal capability of ISAR,
the project objectives and components proved to be over-ambitious and not in line with the
Lmited availab;e human resources (19 mainly inexperienced research staff).
4.3   Ihe infrastructure component of the project - rehabilitation of existing and construcion
of new buildings - was well prepared with detailed architectural designs available at appraisaL
The inclusion of substantial new construction under the project (some 3,850 m2 of housig and
2,730 m2 of servioe buildings) was, however, premature considering that research priorities and
regional distribution of research actmities were to be defined in the masterplan to be prepared
under the project (eg. six staff houses constructed on the Karama research station brng the total
number of staff houses to 38, which is more than needed to accommodate research and technical
staff). 1/
4.4                Project implementation was the responsibility of the Director of ISAR.
ISAR was to be reorganized (establishment of an internd research committee and a reseach
programming and evaluation unit; delegation of the day to day reseach management to the four
heads of the research departments (crops, livestock, farming systems, forestry); and of the
accounting and financial management to the head of the Fmiancial and Administrative Service)
as part of the projecL
5.    Projec  lmentadon
5.1   Genera  The credit agreement was signed in March 1985, and became effective on
November 11, 1985, a delay of five months. The project was originally expected to be
implemented over three years with a planned closing date of December 31, 1988, but the closing
j/    Govenment and DA do not agree on this issue (see para 4.3, Part II).



3
date had to be extended twice, fiSt to December 31, 1989 and subsequently to Dcmba 31,
1991. The main rteaons for these extenions wer  (,) the extrwly difficult budgetaiy sitdut
aggravated by an uncontol   increase in mainly subordiate sta4 (i) the vey sow
implementation of all components telated to research prog-ammn and     includig
the prparon of the Research Mastetplan; ad (iii) pcement problems  The latter,
hower, were oveacome as soon as ISAR staff had become famila ith IDA procuement
procedures, as demons     by the smooth implementation of the infrstructe and equipment
components itn year 2 to 4 of the prject.
5.2         _  a dmd                   pQd im              Ih  mjot pa of the
implemen_aton period of the projct coincided with a singulaly diicult pedod in Rwanda's
economy, during which the financi and budgetary situation increasing  deteoraed as a result
of a large drop in coffee prices, the countr's main export, and an inadequate policy response.
Ths prmpted the governm t to impose financial restrictions and undertake a range of
adjustment policies including drastic reductions in public investment and opaating budgets
These restidons were applied without setting priorities and seriously affected the avability of
countepart funding for this project
53    Goverment's bud*etaiy difficulties caused excessive delays in a number of ways Frst,
funds were not available as had been projected in the Staff Appraisl Report. In fact,
Gover'ments contrbution to the project decesed substantially from FRw 86 milhon in 1986
to FRw 50 mion in 1991 (Table E, Annex ). TMi caused project activities not to be
undertAer at the foreseen time and scale and was particularly important for the rrent cost
funding as the IDA contribution to this category was conditional on the amount of Govenmment
funding. In mid-1991, a revio of the Development Credit Agreement albowed the fincing
of 100 pecnt of operating costs by the IDA credit. Tbe budgetary situation was eaerbated
by an uncontroled increase in stafE, particularly in seasonal and daily lablr from some 1,000 in
1984 to more than 3,200 in 1989 and it was not until 1990 that ISAR management made an effort
to reduce this categor, of staff by about one quarter. 7I Between 1982 and 1991, expenditures
rose by about 290 percent, while income increased by 83 percent only. As a result, ISAR
accumulated a deficit of about FRw 1,690 mIlion over the same period (Tables A and B, Amnex
I) J
5.4   Project costs were orignally estimated at US$1&0 milion, of which US$6.5 millon was
to be provided by Govenment and US$11.5 million by IDA. Actual project costs amounted to
US$17.2 million (96 percent of estimates), of which IDA provided US$12.1 million (105 percent
of estimates) and Government US$5.1 milion (78 percent of estimates). In SDR terms, IDA's
contnrbution was only 80 percent of estimates.
5.5   Staff          ATle number of national research staff increased sgficntly from 19
in 1984 to 41 in 1992 with five more staff to return from PhD and MSc training (Table 4, Part
III). This is in reasonable r ,..eement with the requirements of 70 researchers by 1995, predickd
in the research masterplan, Long-term training has been provided exclusively by bilateral sources,
mainly the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Geman Agecy
2y    The Government believes that the increase in staff was warranted by the increase in
research activities (see parm 5.1 (d), Part II).
w/ Government and IDA do not agree on this number (see par. 5.4, Part II).



4
for Technicad Cooperation (G1Z) and Swiss cooperation which also povided short-term taing.
Only some 50% of project funds for training (equivalent to 71 short-term feilowshlps) were used,
E rimari because the Government preferred grant financing for training activities. _
5.6   Throughout project implementation, turnover of research staff was relatvely higL
Particulary experienced research staff have been attracted to administrative posts with better
career prospects in the central administration or in the pnvate sector. Ts problem is expected
to be at least partially resolved with the introduction of a career development plan for research
staff (Statut de chercheur) developed under the project.
5.7   Tecnicl sta       (Table 4, Part m). Out of 19 man-years of log-term technical
assistance, only 11 were used in the areas of research management, a tration and laboratory
senices ISAR was not able to recruit a local head of the administration and finance section until
early 1993, ne tating continued technical assistance.  Ewith the reseach
prog&amming and evaluation advisers were mixed at best; research planning and evaluation is still
seriousl flawed and a concise research programming and evaluation system stili has to be
developed. A technical assistant was hired in 1990 to assist in improving laboratory service. His
performance has been satisfatory. Other long-term technical assistance was not used or was
funded by bilateral projects
5.8   Twenty-one out of fifty-six man-months of short-term technical assistance have been used,
mainl for the external evaluation of some 20 research programs. Most of this assistance was of
goad qualty and has contnbuted sgnifiantly to the establishment of the research masterplam.
Except for some programs (eg. soil conversation), where a more permanent link with a foreign
institute could be established, the evaluations have had, however, only a limited impact on on-
going research activities.
5.9   Research materpsa  Published in 1990, the plan is comprehensive in terms of research
priorties and staffing needs. The plan emphasizes the setting of research priorities and most of
the conclusions remain applicable, but changes in the ec)noffic and technical envronment
demand a peiodical updating of the plao. The research masterplan has not yet been used by the
Govemment for its main purposes, to guide individual research proposals on priority topics and
to coordinate the participation of donors in the field of agricultural research.
5.10 Research programs. The project was not intended to support specific research programs
but to build-up a more client oriented research system through a reorganization of ISAR in four
research departments (crops, livestock, FSR and forestry), the introduction of program based
research financing and the introduction of a donor coordinating mechanism. The four research
departments were established in the early stages of the project but have recently been replaced
by research programs, each headed by a program leader under the supervision of a Scientific
Director. This approach is in line with the program based research budgeting and cost accounting
system presently being introduced at ISAR. In order to avoid the establishment of too many
small units, individual programs are coordinated in broader program groups.
5.11 The project had only limited success in establishing multi-disciplinary commodity research
teams, covering aU aspects of commodity development such as genetic improvement, plant
41    Govemment claims that at the most only 10 fellowships were awarded (see para 5.6,
Part II).



5
protection, fertilization, cultural practces, integration in crop and variety mixes, acceptably for
fanners etc. Most of on-going research is still concentrated on breeding while other aspects are
widely neglectd and on-fiarm experimental work to test innovations under farm conditions is stm
not a common feature. Examples like the CIAT supported legume program, where variety
adaption is at least as important as varety development, should be followed in the future. On-
farm participatory research is of vital importance for the development of client oriented research.
5.12 livestock researcb made little progress under the project -Te use of project investments
and operatig costs in livestock research - mainly pasture inpovement and water supply in
Karma making-up about half of all ifrastructure investments (Tabk 4, Part im) - were
conditioned by ISAR enterng into a formal agreement with ILCA to provide guidance and
support for al actvities of the livestock department and to post two lvestock research scientists
at ISAR. Ihe Institute, however, never reached such an agreement; reportedly because of the
incapa  of ILCA to provide such semces. The civ works program was executed nevertheless.
5.13   Central services The library was reornized in 1987 and is flly operationaL -he central
laboratories were equipped in 1991 but the problem of the reliability of electicity and water
supply are not yet solved and almost no internal rehabilitation of the laboratories at Rubona had
been indluded in the civil works program of the project. Laboratory operations have, howeer,
improved with the arrival of a technical assistant in 1990.
5.14   Cooatio with the Univt. ISAR and the University of Rwanda established a
formal agreement of cooperation in 1989 but no project related research activities were
undertaken because of limited human resources at the Univesity and cumbersome procedures
g    ioverig the cooperation between two institutions falling under different Ministries
5.15  Donor             The donor coordination mechanism set up under the project - an
annual meeting of all bilateral and multilateral agencies interested in financing agricultural
reseach to mview research concepts, staffig and financing - failed to produce coherence in
research planning execution and financing A strikig example for the lack of donor cordinato
is the farming system resarh progam where four different donors e td their projects
independently using different research methodologies and where activities coflapsed as soon as
the foreign financing ended and the technical assistants departed.
5.16   in     ISAR maintained numerous linkages with regional and international research
bodies and the strengthening of regional collaboration was (and still is) high on its agenda. A
small national agricultural research system, such as the Rwandese, depends largey on technology
generated elsewhere. Its function is primary to screen such technology and to adapt it to
prevailing local conditions. /  his approach, already actively developed at ISAR for some
commodities (beams wth the Intemational Center for Tropical Agriculture (CLAI), potatoes wth
the Regional Program for the Improvement of Potatoes in Central Afica (PRAPAC) and the
Internatioal Center for Potatoes (CIP), agro-forestzy with the International Center for Research
in Agro-forestry (ICRAF)) needs to be etended to other research programs.
5.17  linkages with extension semices, development projects and NGOs were hampered by two
major problems: (i) research themes were mainly defined by the researchers and did not alwas
Y/    Goverment and IDA do not entirely agree on this issue (see para 4.5, Part II).



6
reflect farmers needs; and (ii) on-farm research, when practiced, was of variable quality and
intensity. !/ A closer collaboration of farmers, extension staff and researchers is needed.
6.    Project Resut
6.1   Considering the main objective of the project - to pave the way for the long-term
development of agricultural research in Rwanda - the project has beea reasonably successful
although it took about twice the initially planned time to achieve it TIhe research masterplan
forms a solid basis for this goal and has been extensively used for the preparation of the second
phase project, at present being processed by IDA. The amended proposals for institutional
strengthening of ISAR-program based planning, budgeting and evaluation of research activities,
establshment of a Scientific Directorate, and decentralization of research management through
the establishment and/or strengthening of regional research centers will be implemented under
this second phase.
6.2   The Progrmming and Evaluation Unit was not established and research prograng and
evaluation of research progress and results remained unsatisfactory during the whole project
period. ISAR's management remained excessively centralized with the result that program and
station managers had no knowledge of research costs and the actual budget situation.
Consequently, there was no relationship between the program based budget proposal and the
actual budget execution.
6.3 Manpower development achieved mixed results. The number of research staff doubled
over the project period but postgraduate training is still largely insufficient and only some 30%
of research staff has a postgraduate degree.
64    As mentioned above, the project was not designed to support individual research programs
except for livestock where the project proposed substantial investments in infrastructure and
technical assistance to be provided by ILCA. This program, however, never got off the ground
and progress in fivestock research was negligible. Other research programs substantially
benefitted from project investments (eg. infrastructure, vehicles, equipment etc.) and from
support to operating expenses Notable research results, particularly in the development of
disease resistant bean and root crop varieties, are reported to be adopted by farmers.
6.5   The heavy investment in ISARs infrastructure has left it with excellent facilities which
will facilitate the future etension of research activities.
6.6    During the project period the number and quality of publications in joumals and
conference proceedings have increased and annual reports of a high standard have been published
since 1989.
§/    Government and IDA do not agree on the issues raised here (see also para. 4.6, Part
U).



7
7.    Paiect S a  _ibAift
7.1   Agricultural resarch financing is, clearly, the most crucial issue of the projecL Under the
present system, whereby the majodty of funding for research ia provided by exteal financiers,
research at ISAR is not sustainable even at its limited present leveL The second phase project
will introduce a new funding mechanism that will coordinate the different sources of financing
(external and domestic), thereby ensuring continuity in funding.
&     Bankes Perfonnance
&1   The project, as designed, was too ambitious and underestimated the length of time and
effort required to reorient the national research system of the country. In addition, a more
careful assessment of the need for new buildings at certain locations (eg. Karama, Tamira) could
have reduced investment and recurrent costs.
&2   As shown in Table 7, Part l, the project was actively superviscL A total of twelve
superison msions vmsited ISAR during the project life to monitor implementation progress and
concentrated on institutional, staffing and procurement problems. In addition the IDA Task
Manager, when resident in Rigali, paid numerous additional visits to TSAR headquarters at
Rubona and to various research stations. The missions' inputs were found useful by the
implementing agency.
9.    Bnor es P        d formance
9.1   Except for the first two years of project implmentation, when Govrnment fimding of
ISAR increased, the GOR encountered many difficulties to provide sufficient counterpart
funding. In fact, Government contibution to ISARis ordinary budget (Table D, Annex I)
decreased in constant terms by over 40% between 1986 and 1991, thus reducing support to ISAR
as a share of the ordinaxy Government budget from 0.43% to 0.22%.
9.2 The main weakness in executing the project was in the financial and administrative
services of TSAR. It was only in 1989, that an adequate accounting system was set up. During
the first four years of the project ISAR's accounting was inadequate with no clear data on
Government and exernal agencies' contnbution to its budget.
10.   Consultants' Performance
10.1 In general, consultants performed satisfactorily.



8
PROJECr COMlPEIMON REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECr
(Cr. 1546-RW)
PART IL PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS PEPCIVE
1.    Poject Idet
Name:              Agricultural Research Project
Credit No.:        1546-RW
RVP:               AF3AG
Country:           Rwanda
Sector.                  Agriculture
Subsector          Agricultural Research
2.
2.1   Genead policy. Since the 1970s the Rwandese Government has been pursuing three main
objectv  in the agriculture sector: food self-sufficiency, development of import substitution
c-rops and the promotion and diersification of exports. Ihese objectives are reflected in the
folowing deelopment priorities:
(a)   intensification of plant and animal production;
(b)   soil coseration and improvement of soil fertility,
(c)   improvement and rationalization of the use of the limited remaining farmland;
(d)   regional specializaton in production consistent with agro-ecological potential; and
(e) agricultural intervention based on a sectoral or crop specific aporoach.
With a view to acbieving these objectives, the Government focused on rural development projects
financed jointly with donors These projects progressed smoothly in several areas, in partcular
roads, infrastructre development, and soil conservation, but could not stem a decline in
productivity in the face of growing demographic pressures on land, corresponding losses in soil
fertility and a lack of new technologies to resolve these problems.
2.2 Given the urgent need to increase productivity and the ladc of a strategy to do so, the
Government, wMth the support of the International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR), undertook a review of the agricultural research system in the early 1980s and
introduced the first measures to strengthen the Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda
(ISAR). The project was envisaged as the first phase of a long-term development program for
a problem-soing oriented agricultural research system.



9
2.3    Macroeconomic situation during project implementation.   The bulk of project
implementation occurred during a particularly difficult period for the Rwandese economy, during
which the financial and budgetary siuation steadily deteriorated. These difficulties forced the
Government to impose financial restrictions and intoduce a series of adjustment measures, in
particular a drastic reduction in operating budgets and public investment. These restrictions were
implemented without regard to the country's development priorities.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project had three objectives:
(a)    prepare a research master plan to serve as a basis for the long-term development of
the subsector;
(b)   rationalize financial performance and management of ISAR's research, through the
introduction of a program-based financing system; and
(c)   establish a long-term manpower development plan.
The main project componens were:
(a)    establishment of a master plan for agricultural research;
(b)   strengthening of management and programming, evaluation and monitoring of
research through the reorgantion of ISAR and the introduction of appropriate
procedures for research program formulation;
(c)   the establishment and/or strengthening of multi-disciplinary agricultural and livestock
research teams (five teams concerned with 13 programs for plant production, a
central research unit on animal production systems and research groups on livestock
at three research stations), as well as the strengthening and coordination of three
regional research programs on production systems;
(d)    establishment of a documentation system;
(e)   rehabilitation and extension of TSAR's inastucture;
(f)    provision of vehicles, and research and experimental equipment; and
(g)    operating costs
Project implementation was expected to take three years (1985-1988).



10
4.    Project Design and Orgniation
4.1   Preparation. Project identification was based on an analysis of the Rwandese research
system conducted by ISNAR in 1982 and an 1ntenaional seminar on agricultural research that had
taken place in Kigali in early 1983. With the support of ISNAR and IDA, ISAR had prepared the
background papers on research (plant and animal production, agricultural production systems), the
rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure, equipment needs, and documentation.  These
documents had been used by a joint IDA/ISNAR commission (late 1983) to produce the preparation
report. The project was appraised in early 1984 with the support of ISNAR and ILCA ad
negotiations were held in late 1984.
4.2 Design. Given the time constraints and institutional weakness of ISAR at the start of the
project, its objectives and components proved to be overly ambitious and il-suited to the Institute's
limited staff (19 relatively experienced researchers).
4.3 The infrastructure component (rehabilitation of existing buildings and construction of new
buildings) was well prepared and the architectal drawings were ready at the time of appraisal. The
nber and type of houses to be built at ISAR's various stations (Rubona, Karama and Tamira) were
based on short- and medium-term needs. All of the 38 dwellings built at Karama were needed to
accommodate researchers and technical personnel at that regional station since they are now fully
occupied. It must be recalled that the Karama station is large and located in an isolated area. It was
not premature for the project to include a substantial new civil works program, given the fixture needs
that had to be provided for. 71/
4.4    Organiation. The responsibility for project implementation fell to the Director General of
TSAR. In the appraisal report, reorganization of that instiution had been envisaged as follows:
establishment of an inrnal research committee and a research programming and evaluation unit;
delegation of day-to-day management of research to the heads of the four research departments (crop
production, animal production, study of the environment and production systems, and forestry); and
delegation of accounting sdministatin and financial management to the head of the administrative
and financial service. This reorganization was only partialy carried out as the programmig and
evaluation unit was not established. These two functions therefore remained very unsatisfactory
throughout the project. ISAR management remained overly centralized, and as such program
directors and station chiefs were not informed about research costs or budget execution. There was
consequently no relationship between the draft program-based budgets and their actual execution.
4.5    External Relations. ISAR maintains numerous relationships with regional and international
research institutions and the strengtfening of regional cooperation is a priority in its program.
However, the national research system in Rwanda, as small as it is, can not solely rely on
technologies developed elsewhee. It can identify useful technologies and adapt them to local
conditions, but this is not always feasible because not all imported technologies are adaptable to the
Rwandese context. Rwanda must develop its own technology and consolidate it within the country. ,/
The technologies developed elsewhere must be viewed as a complement to the technologies
developed within the country.
1./    Government and IDA do not agree on this issue (see also para. 4.3, Part 1).
1/    Govamnment and IDA do not entirely agree on this issue (see also para. 5.16, Part 1).



11
4.6 Throughout the project, relations with extension services, development projects and NGOs
were characterized by close cooperation. The research topics, wbich had previously been determined
primarily by the researchers without necessarily taking into account the real needs of the farmers,
were decided with them during meetngs that brought together researchers. local authorities, extension
personnel and farmers. Research was carried out under real conditions, which meant that the topics
often reflected the needs of the farmers. 2/ Cooperation among researchers, extension personnel
and farmers was established during the course of the project.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   Implementation period. The Credit Agreement was signed in March 1985, but the credit
became effective in November 1985 only, due to administrative delays. Initially, project
implementation was to take three years and completion was scheduled for June 1988, but the
implementation period was extended twice, until 1991, owing in particular to:
(a)    an extremely difficult budgetary situation;
@b)   very slow implementation of all components associated with programming and
management of research;
(c)   slow increase in scientific (researchers) and technical personnel because the
recruitment of expatriate scientific personnel was discouraged because of its cost; and
(d)    procurement problems that arose during the first year of the project because ISAR
personnel was not yet familiar with IDA procurement procedures. The increase in
primarily support personnel was not excessive, as suggested by Part I of the PCR,
since it was associated with an increase in research programs and the ensuing volume
of activities. 10/
5.2   The Government's budgetary difficulties caused excessive delays in many regards, hindering
the project. Complete blockages occurred at times because the utilization of IIDA funds was subject
to the availability of Govenment counterpart fumds, for which the budget allocated to research was
always insufficient. For this reason, several project activities were not carried out as scheduled or
on the planned scale. It was only towards the end of the project implementation period that a revision
of the Credit Agreement made it possible to ease the situation through the financing of 100% of
operaing costs from IDA fuinds.
5.3   The increase in personnel and in particular daily and seasonal laborers was not excessive
because it was linked to the decentralization of programs and was in line with the increase in
scientific personnel. The reduction in support personnel was necessary because the government
allocation was often late and insufficient.
2/    Government and IDA do not agree on this issue (see also para. 5.17, Part 1).
10/ Government and IDA do not agree on this subject (see also para. 5.3, Part 1).



12
5.4    During the project, ISAR's debts did not amount to some FRw 1.690 million, an exorbitant
and massive figure that was surely printed in error. At most, its debt could be some FRw 86 million,
due primarily to the Caisse Sociale du Rwanda, SONARWA and several suppliers. II/
5.5   Project costs. Initially, project costs were estimated at US$18 million, of which 11.5 million
(SDR 11.7 million) was to be financed by IDA. Actual disbursements were US$12.1 million (SDR
9.4 million); some SDR 2.3 million (20%) had not been used by the end of project and had to be
canceled. Government's contribution to the project, which allegedly could not be calculated, consist
of public allocations to ISAR, in addition to ISAR's own funds. Even though that contribution has
not yet been calculated, it will be derived to show the real expenditures under the project.
5.6    Manpower development. Rwandese research personnel increased markedly, from 19 in
1984 to 41 in 1992, plus an additional 5 people who have recently returned from doctoral and master-
level studies. Long-term training was provided exclusively by bilateral sources, primarily USAID,
GTZ and Swiss Cooperation, which also financed short-term internships. The figure of 71
fellowships for short-term training is too high, and should be lowered to 10 at most. 12! It is
estimated that only some 20% of the funds envisaged for traimng were actually used. A very small
percentage of IDA funds was used for training. !3/
5.7   There are now staff regulations for ISAR researchers, but regulations for general ISAR staff
are still lacking, which is constraining the performance of the Institute. The researcher regulations
were formulated only after project closing in 1993 and have already been approved by ISAR's board
of directors.
5.8    Technical assistance. The expatriate expert who headed up the administration and finance
section during project implementation left in 1993. It was not until early 1993 that TSAR was able
to fill the position. For research programming and evaluation, performance during project
implementation was uneven at best, but the system improved substantially towards the end of the
project.
5.9   Program evaluations had a clear impact on ongoing research activities because the
recommendations made for each program evaluated were reflected in the research master plan. The
example of the soil conservation program in Part I was not a good one, because the better evaluations
were for those programs that bad linkages with international research centers. These programs were
much better off because they had many researchers and sufficient means.
5.10   Master plan. The first version was published in 1990 and a revised version for 1994-2003
was issued in January 1993. The plan is complete with regard to research priorities and staffing
needs. Although its conclusions remain valid, changes in the economic and technical environment
II/   Theae is a misunderstanding here between the text in para. 5.3, Part I, and what is said
here. The figure in Part I is based on a cumulative deficit (not debt), and is based on
audits carried out during project implementation.
12/   The discrepancy is the result of different definitions of what constitute a fellowship, see
also para. 5.5, Part I.
II    As noted in para. 5.5, Part L there was a reluctance on the part of Government to use
credit funds for long-term training, when sufficient fimding on grant basis was avalable.



13
will require periodic updating to bring it into line with changing needs. Although the research master
plan has just been updated, it has not yet been approved by the authorities and its full impact can
therefore not be felt.
5.11   Research programs. In the early years of the project ISAR was reorganized into four
research departments (plant production, animal production, study of the environment and production
systems, and forestry) and a program-based financing system was introduced. Tbe four research
departments were ultimately replaced by research programs directed by a program leader under the
overatl supervision of a scientific director. This approach is well suited to the cost accounting and
program-based budgeting system adopted by ISAR. The demand-based research system was not
envisaged for thv first phase. It was planned only for research under contract during phase two,
which is to begin soon. The various programs were not coordinated into program groups covering
a more extensive area; this idea was abandoned to boost individual program efficiency.
5.12   Ihe project had limited success in establishing multi-disciplinary teams covering all aspects
of research on a givtn product (genetic improvement, plant disease protection, fertilization, cropping
practices, integration with existing crops and varieties, acceptability by farmers, etc.). Nevertheless,
efforts were made to work in teams, but national specialists are not available for all aspects of
research, in particular for agroeconomics, socioeconomics, physiology and biotecbnology, to give
only a few examples. On-farm experimentation to test the innovations under real conditions began
to be practiced regularly during the project implementation period, in conjunction with the research
and development component of the various agricultural projects under way in the country.
5.13 Very little progress was made by research under the project with regards to livestock. The
use of project funds allocated for investment and operating expenditures of research on livestock was
contingent upon the conclusion of an official agreement between ISAR and ILCA. That agreement
could not be concluded, apparently owing to the inability of ILCA to assign two researchers to ISAR.
5.14   Central services. The library was reorganized and expanded slightly; the numter of
documents increased but the changes due to the project are minor. The central laboratories were
equipped, but the problem of security of electricity and water supply has not been resolved, and
vually no internal rehabilitation for the Rubona laboratories was included in the project works
program. 14/ However, with the arrival of a technical assistant in 1990, laboratory operations
have improved markedly.
5.15 Cooperation with the University. ISAR and the National University of Rwanda (UNR) have
concluded a formal cooperation agreement in 1989, which -in principle- made it possible to use
professors and students more efficiently. However, the lack of interest and cumbersome procedures
governing cooperation between the two institutions, which report to different ministries, continue to
block the design and implementation of joint research projects. No project-related research was
carried out under the agreement between ISAR and UNR, and the related project funds were not
utilized.
5.16   Donor coordination. Project donor coordination arrargements did not produce the expected
results. Normally, it is difficult to ensure coordination among several financing sources, since each
14/   Government and IDA do not agree on this issue, the renovation and construction of the
central laboratories at Rubona was limited to the number of laboratories needed, rather
than the actual number of laboratories in place.



14
donor has its own interests and procedures. However, there is hope that the master research plan will
provide a means to reach a consensus of views in the design and implementation of programs, which
would facilitate donor coordination.
6.    Projed Results
6.1   The main objective of the project-to open the way for long-term development of agricultural
research in Rwanda-was achieved, although it took almost twice as long as initialy planned. The
master research plan is a solid foundation for this long-term objective and was used for the
preparation of phase two of the prniect. The modified proposals for institution building and
restrucwring of ISAR were implemented just after the end of phase one.
6.2    As regards the development of human resources, the results are more or less satisfactory.
During the project period, research persoDnel doubled, but doctoral training remains insufficient.
During phase two of the project, the training plan for specialists should be carried out as envisaged
in the master research plan.
6.3    Research progress on livestock during the project period was negligible, owing to the lack
of a formal agreement between ISAR and ILCA, which would have made possible substantial
investments in in tructure and technical assistance from ILCA. The research program on livestock
thus never got off the ground.
6.4   It is clear that during this period farmers adopted notable findings of the research, particularly
as regards the production of roots and tuber varieties and disease-resistant beans; however, this
success is also attributable to the contribution of several donors such as Swiss Cooperation,
International Development Research Center, GTZ, World Bank and the Rwandese Government
because the financing was global and success cannot be ascribed to any one given donor.
6.5   The project provided ISAR with very useful facilities that will promote the future
development of research activities. Nevertheless, the new buildings were built with materials that
are not overly sturdy and are covered with large heavy tiles, which suggests that they will not last
long. fi/ Moreover, the residential houses lack protective grillwork against theft and a good
number of them have problems with water and electricity supply. A generator should have been
installed. 16f
6.6   The number and quality of articles appearing in specialized publications and conference
proceedings increased substantially during the project period. Since 1989 ISAR's annual reports have
been of a very high quality.
fI    Government and IDA do not agree on this issue. The buildings were constucted using
locally produced bricks and roof tiles. Only one building, the cafeteria at Rubona, has
given roofing problems because of a poorly insalled cistern. Bank missions have on
several occasions brought this issue to the attention of ISAR.
j1/   Government and IDA do not agree on this issue, many of these problems resulted from
the fighting between Rwandese refugees and the Government and could not be foreseen
earlier, nor are most of these problems of a permanent nature.



15
7.    Project SustainabiUity
7.1 It is difficult to assess project sustainability since at the present time much of research funding
is provided by extnal agencies and there is no coordination of fimancing to ensure continuity.
8.    Bank's Performance
8.1    As designed, the project had significantly underestmatd the twme and effort necessary to
revamp the country's research system. A rigorous evaluation of new building needs at Tamira would
have reduced investment and operating expenditures for that station. For ISAR's other stations such
as Rubona and Karama, building construction could have been phased, but at present all buildings
constructed under the project are adequately utilized.
8.2   The project was supervised actively throughout implementaTon. The suggestions made by
supervision missions were considered useful by ISAR as well as the Rwandese Government.
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1   Implementation coincided with an extremely difficult period for the national economy. The
Government therefore bad a great deal of trouble in mobilizing the counterpart funds. However,
ISAR did receive heavy public subsidies during the first two years of project implementation when
the economic situation was still relatively good.
9.2   The greatest weakness of project implementation was in ISAR's administrative and financial
services, which were not able to organize the accounting system in such a way that the government
contribution to the project as a whole or its various components and the contribution of various
financing agencies to ISAR's budget could be shown accuratdy at any time. It was only in 1989
(year 4 of the project) that the cost accounting system was operational. ISAR's accountng system,
which was deficient during the first four years of the project, had improved considerably by the end.



16
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1546-RW)
PART Ilk STATIMCAL INFORMATiON
Table 1: Related DA Credits
Credit tle   Year of            Project            Amount           tatus
Apprval                              Apprved
3  L  __  _               (US$ minion)
Cr. 668-RW     1977    Bugesera Gisaka Mgongo        14.0      CoMplted in
Rural Development                      1982
Projiet
Cr. 1126-RW    1981    Lake Kivu Coffee and          11.8      Completed in
Foodcrop Production                    1988
(PCCV) Project
Cr. 1283-RW    1982    Bugesera Gisaka Migongo       16.3      Completed in
Rural Services Project,                1991
Phase g
Cr. 1669-RW    1986    Gitarama Agricultural         11.7      Completed in
Production Project                     1991
Cr. 1811-RW    1987    Second Forestiy Project       14.1      Under
implementation
Cr. 2026-RW    1989    Agricultural Services         19.9      Under
Project .,plementation



17
Table 2:   Jei, Tinetable
IF  r    Planned Date                Rovited Date       |    Actual Date
Preparation                                                                              June 1983
Final preparation                                                   -                 Nov./Dec. 1983
Pre-appraisal                                                                           March 1984
Appraisal                                                                               April 1984
Negotiations                                                         -                 Oecember 1984
Board approval                                        -                             February 12, 1985
Credit signature                                                    M- arch 4, 1985
Credit effectiveness               June 3,  95                      -               November 11, 1985
Project conpletion                June 30, 1988             December 31. 1989       December 31, 1991
Credit closing                  December 31, 1988           Decamber 31, 1989       December 31, 1991
Last Disbursement                   June 1989                 June 30! 1990             ApVril 1992
Source: Project Files.



18
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and       SAR Estimated CuMUtatiW           Actual Cwu.Mtive        1 SOR Actual as
Disbursements up to            Disbursements                   Disbursements             X of SDR
- r            ~~~Estimates
(SDR'OOO)      (USS'000)       (SDR'OO0)  |(USSj OO)
19,5
December 31  1984              610             600             -              -              0.0
June 30. 195                 1,221           1,200                                           0.0
1986
December 31, 1985            2,493           2,450             472            507           18.9
June 30, 1986                3,205           3,150           1,35Z          1,517           42.2
1987
December 31, 1986            4,324           4,250           1,461          1,648           33.8
June 30, 1987                5,545           5,450           2,403          2,870           43.3
1988
December 31, 1987            7,071           6,950           3,703          4,S60           52.4
June 30, 1988                8,343           8,200           5,010          6,345           60.1
1989
December 31, 1988            9,563           9,400           6,292          8,029           65.8
June 30, 1989               10,784          10,600           7,521          9,607           69.7
1990
December 31, 1989           11,700          11,500           8,053         10,277           68.8
June 30, 1990                                                8,446         10,793           72.2
1991
December 31, 1990                                            8,687         11,134           74.2
June 30, 1991                                                9,002         11,557           76.9
1992
December 31, 1991                                            9,204         11,832           78.7
June 30, 1992                                                9,374         12,068           80.1
Source: SAR; WB disbursement statements.



19
Table 4: Project Implementation
A. Civil Works
Unit                 Housing              Service Buildings      Other Civil Works
Planned  I   Actual       Planned  i  Aetual        Planned  |Actul
mem Buildings
Rubons                                          1,690        2,149        1,723        1,736
Butare                           .2               655          828
Karma m2                                         770         1,674 gr       155          139
Kigati                           o2              -             -            270         358
Ruhengeri la/                                    200 bY        216 Wy       605 k/      780 b/
Tamira                                           720           749 2/       SW          473
Total                             2            4,035         5,616        3,338       3,486
of which World Bank
ProJect                                        3,835         3,961        2,733       2,706
Buitding Rehabilitation          i2           10,450        10,967        4,835       9,518
Vater Suppty
Rubona                        '000 FRW                                                              1,074
Karama                                                                                             70,134
tIPasture  l0 FRva1ent
Karamna                        000 FRW                                                             70,134
pj Of this, six houses (about 690 m2) were buitt under the IDA-financed BON II Project (Cr. 1283-RU).
y Financed through the PNAP.
S/ Housing in Tamra has been constructed under the IFAD financed Birunga Project.
Source: SAR; ISAR.



20
Table 4: Projectdnplementation
B. Staffing 17/
Before Project    Appraisal Estimste           Actual             Actual
1(984)                (1987)               1989                1992
Scientific Staff (AO) 9/                  19                 38                    40                 41
Technical Staff (A1-A3)                   35                 62                    62                 66
Adnin. tA1-A3)                          n.s.                 24                    40                 32
other Permanent Staff                   n.a.                202                   525                 n.a.
Laborers Wi                         * 1,000                 858                 3,268               2,220 S/
/ Including research managemant.
J) Permanent and seasonal labor.
st Nission's estimate base on 1991 budget.
Source: Appraisa report (1984 and 1987); FAO/CP Preparation report (1989) and ISAR (1992).
Il/ National staff only.



21
Table 4: Project Implanentation
C. Other Indicators
Unit        Apprafsal Estimate        Actual
Vehicles and Equipemt
NO.                 16                  30
Cars                                                    No.                 12                    1
Trucks                                                  No.                  6                    1
Tractors                                                No.                 20                   13
Notorbikes                                              No.                 15                   10
Micro-computers
Technical Assistance ard Conmuttancies
ly                  19                   11
Long-term TA                                            n/um                56                   21
Short-term TA
Training                                              SDR'000              710                 351



22
Table 5: Project Costs and fmnancing
A. Project Costs Financed by IDA 1la
(SDR'OO
Category                 Ptartd                Revised      I  Revised    K       Actuat         Atual as %
1   October 1989  | July 19       |                       of plannked
IVatuelKi                              IValuelK
Civil works                     3.050        26           3,751           3,151        2,750       29          90.2
Vehicles and equipment          1.420        12           1,740            1.640       1,145        12         80.6
Consultants                     2,340        20           2,300           2.200        1.714        18         73.2
Training                          710         6             250              500         351        4          49.4
Research supplties              1,630        14           3,200           3,750        2,812       30         172.5
Special events                    8tO         7               0                0           0        0            0
Refunding PPF                     310         3             459              459         459        5         148.1
Unallocated                     1,430        12               0                0         143       1.5          10.0
Total                          11,700       100          11,700           11.700       9.374      100          80.1
I/ Loan agreement of March 1985.
B. Project Elasncing
Plannied                             Actualt                  Actual as % of
Source                                                                                       planned
I   l     I  million                               million
80
IDA               11,700    11.500          1.115       9,374    12,066          1,009
GoverrtAnt         6,600      6,500           630       4.012      5.115           451             61
TotaL             18_300    18.000          1.745      13,386    17.181          1.460              73
, Government contribution to tSOR.
Source: SAR; Development Credit Agreement; Project File, ISAR.
l The Government contnbution by category is not available.



23
Table 6: Status of Covenants
section      Content of Covenants          Status                    Co7rents
2.04         Closing date.                OK after revision.         Revised twice to Dec. 31, 1989 and Dec. 31, 1991.
3.01         Sorrowers comfitment to       Partly coaptied.          Government's counterpart fundIng has been largely
the project's                                           insufficient and late.  This results partly from
objectives.                                             crisis in public finance, leading to general budget
cuts without setting priorities. IDA agreed to
increase percentage financing to 100X, beginning July
1991.
3.02         Appointment of Key
staff:
- 3.02 (a) agric.,           Partly cojplied.           go agric. economist employed. Contract with ISNAM l
economist and visiting                                for use of visiting consultants has been
consultants for                                       unsatisfactory and cancelted.
hasterplan.
- A mnaging director.        Complied.
- A programming and          Partly comptfed.           t expatriate stayed from 3/84 to 4/85, another from
evaluation advisor.                                   12/86 to 7188. Both had premature departures.
- Five department heads.     Complied.                  The technical department heads are Rwandese. The
position of Administrative and Financial Officer is
still taken by a Technical Assistant.
- A biometrician.            Partly complied.           Left on August 1989.
3.03         Cooperation of ISAR with      Partly complied.          An agreement was signed in 1989° but no project
University.                                             related cooperative research was inItiated.
3.04 (a)(b)  Aid coordination through      Compifed.
review of work progra_ne
and budget of ISAR.
3.04 (d)    Review of research             Complied.
programs by independent
experts.
3.05         Reporting:
- auarterly progress         Not complied.              No quarterly reports except two in 1990.
reports.
- Amnual technical           Coaplied.                  The anmuat reports were often late but reached a very
reports.                                              good quality at the end of the project.
3.06 (a)    Annual work programs and       Complied.                 The work programs were often delayed. Budget
budgets.                                                estimates were not related to the needs of research
programs but to previous year budgets.
3.06 (e)    Preparation of Research        Compli ed.                Four year delay.
Nasterplan.
3.08 (d)     Borrowers report on           Not complied.
project execution six
mnaths after closing
date.
4.01         Audit.                        Copli ed.
5.02         Effectiveness.                Revised.                  Expected before June 3, 1985.  Actual effectiveness
was delayed until November 11, 1985.



24
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources
A. Supwvlion Misions
Stage of Project     m Month/Year    Number of  | SpecializatIon      Days In  | PR Status         Type of
Cycle         I            I  Persons   I Represented O/         Field ab               |  ProbLem  c/
Preparation            June 83                                            30
Final Preperation      Dec. 83
Appraisal              April 84           3        A, A. R                 10
Supervision I          June 85            3        A, R, Ar                14                    6C, HR
Supervision 2          Dec. 85            1        A                       3
Supervision 3          March 86           2        A, R                     7           1
Supervision 4          June 86            1        A                       19           1        NP
Supervision 5          Oct. 86            3        A. E. A                 10           2        HR, Cc
Supervision 6          April 87           2        A, E                    6            2        1P, HR
Supervision 7          Jan. 88            2        A, E                    8            2        NP, RH
Supervislon 8          Dec. 88            3        A, R, E                 6            2        HRR,  P, 6C
Mid-Tenr Review        may 89             3        A, R, L                  7
Supervision 9          Dec. 89            3        A, R, E                  7           2        6C
Supervision 10         Aug. 90                                                          3
SupervIsion 11         July 91            1        E                        7           3        GC, RN
pj    Specializations are: A a Agriculturatist; R a Research Specialist; Ar u Architect; E a Economist; L.
Livestock Specialist.
k/    Performance Rating Status: 1 a Problem-free or minor problem; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 a Major
lproblems.
S     MP * Delay in the preparation of Master Plan; HR a Scarcity of human resources; SC a Financing of
Government contributions; RN = Research methodology.



B. Staff Inpub
Bank fisalt Year    =_=_____ l
l824 83            84      8S       86       8J      8       89       90      91       92       93        total
Identification through Pre-aPraisal  = .5   48.8    55.8   -                 -        -     -         -        -        -       -         -         110.1
Appraisal                                                   8.1     6.9       -       --.0
Negotiations                                -    -    -   16.0   -    -                          -     -                -  -              -          16.0
Supervision                                -                        8.5      9.2      9.4    9.1    16.5    t1.9    14.8        6.7       -          86.1
Proiect Completion                         -        -    -           -       -        -    -    -              -        -   -            t9.2    19.2
Total                                      7,5   48.8    63.9    31.4        9.2      9.4    9.1    16.5    11.9    14.8        6.7      19.2       26.3



26                                                 Annex I
A. ISAR Income and Expenditure Accounts (FRw milllon)
Year                            1982           1983    |     190          1991
Income aid Revnusm
Sales                                                32.6           44.3
Less cost of goods sold                              -3.0           -4.3
Increase In stock of cattle                           2.5           -1.0
79.0
Sub-total                                          32.1           39.0         131.8         95.5
Subsidies received 129                             63.3           80.3          70.9
174.5
Total Income and Revenues                            95.4          119.3         202.7
IExpenditues
Staff salaries                                       60.6           77.6         176.5        183.9
Materials and supplies consumed                      18.1           21.8          51.8         86.9
Other services and taxes                              2.1            4.2          33.8         41.2
Transport                                             0.9            0.4           1.6          3.7
Interest paid and penalties                           0.6            0.6          18.4         19.8
Depreciation                                         11.8           14.6          63.6         54.5
Provision for doubtful debts/losses                   9.3            8.8          21.9         11.1
Total Expenditures                                  103.4          128.0         367.6        401.1
met result for the year (excess expenditure
over income)                                         -8.0           -8.7        -165.0       -226.6
Cuultated Revemne Reserves
Cumulated revenue as of
1 January of the year                                             78.4       -1,298.6    -1,463.7
Loss for the year                                    -8.0           -8.7         -165.0       -226.6
Cumulative revenue as of
31 December of the year                           +78.4          +69.7       -1,463.7    -1,690.3
Source: SAR 1985; Rapport d'audit 1991.
12/ There is a discrepancy between the number for subsidies received here and in subsequent
tables, because of a different definition.



27                                                Annex I
B. ISAR's Balance Sheet (FRw million)
Year                        1982           1983            1990            1991
Fixed Asset
Office and operational buildings             80.0            82.5            384.9          373.7
Residential houses                           53.9            61.3           454.3           478.7
Vehicles                                     14.5            29.3             99.4           87.8
Equipment                                    90.5            93.9            232.0          242.5
Other assets                                  7.2             8.8              2.9            3.7
Work in progress                              3.4             -               18.1           19.9
Sub-total                                   249.5           275.8          1,194.4        1,209.9
Less accmnulated depreciation               -168.3         -182.9           -436.1         -468.3
Total Fixed Assets                           81.2            92.9            758.3          741.6
Current Assets
Debtors                                      20.1            35.8             49.0           32.8
Less provision                               -8.7            -8.8             -              -
Livestock                                    27.2            26.2             50.0           47.8
Other stocks                                 10.9            13.0            34.9            25.9
Cash and bank                                96.6            77.8            144.0          117.5
Total Current Assets                        146.1           144.0           277.9           224.0
Total Assets                                227.3           236.9          1,036.2          965.6
Fmnwaced by:
Current Liabilities (short-term  loans)      14.9            24.7            134.8          154.7
Long-term loans                               5.9             5.2          1.063.3        1,133.1
including:
FIDA loan                                   -                              174.9          181.8
IDA loan                                    -               -             888.4           951.3
Cumulative subsidies                        128.1           137.3          1,255.8        1,325.7
IncLuding:
Rwandese Government                        38.9            44.2          1,106.6        1,162.4
Belgian Government                         78.7            80.4
Swiss Government                            8.6            10.7             31.5           33.4
US Aid                                       -              -               79.1           82.1
Other subsidies                             1.9             2.0             49.7           33.7
Others                                        -               -               46.0           42.4
Sub-total                                   148.9           167.2         2,499.9         2,655.9
Retained earnings                            78.4            69.7         -1,463.7       -1,690.3
Total                                       227.3           236.9          1,036.2          965.6
Source: SAR; Rapport d'audit 1991.



28                                                 Annex I
C. Evaluation of ISAR's Budgets (Value FRw '000)
1986 a/ 1 1987. a  i 1988 a)  1 1989a         1990 at
Investment Expenditures
Civil works                      57,100    183,484    139,800        -            -
Office equipment                  3,425      1,880       1,450      7,191          934
Computers                                    7,410      1,145       1,144        3,808
Research equipment                 -         4,368      6,750       5,933        6,653
Vehicles                         11,800      9,109     28,566       4,655
Other                             4,043      1,933      11,857      3,714        1,018
Total                            76,368   208,184    189,568       22,638       12,413
operating Expenditures
Staff (without charges)         140,381    155,461    183,594    195,521       163,369
Technical Assistance             48,500     56,025     45,286      28,062       23.744
Transportation                   35,700     40,902     59,630      59,076       44,559
Inputs and charges               42,220     44,566     42,410      28,348       21,845
Training and missions             1,100      1,226      2,668       5,018        5,815
Other b/                         34,372     16,552     25,012      31,469       27,292
Total                           302,273    314.732    358,600    347,493       286,625
Resources
Productions sold                 51,911     71,318     75,017      65,854        64,422
Government subsidies             86,086     89,000     78,000      59,769        S/
World Bank                      177,168    233,292    266,000    202,300        58,582
Other financing agencies         17,140     89,671     94,840                   85,635
Total                           332,305    483,281    513,857
Financial Needs                 -46,336    -39,635    -34,311
I Actual.
i Includes debt repayment.
S£  Excluding selling of vegetal oils which was a subsidy by WFP.



29                                                 Annex I
D. Government Contribution to ISAR Ordinary Budget
Year        I  Millions of FRW  I  Millions of FRW  I   As X of State   I   As % of ISAR
Actuat            Constant 85             Budget               Budget
1985                66.4                 66.4
1986                86.1                 87.2                  0.43                 22.8
1987                89.0                 86.4                  0.38                 17.0
1988                78.0                 73.6                 0.30                  14.2
1989                59.8                  55.9                 0.26                 16.1
1990                58.6                 52.3                  0.22                 19.6
1991                50.0                 37.3
E. Staff Costs and Local Finandal Resource
1986              1989              1990               1991
A. Staff costs
.    Cade                         37.7              52.2               45.6               47.1
- Other Permanent Staff           32.5              53.3               46.7               48.8
- Daily Labor                     28.9              27.3               22.2               22.7
- Seasonal Labor                  25.7              53.5               42.6               43.9
Sub-total                      124.8             186.3              157.1              162.5
S. Locat Financial Resouroes
- Government Subsidy              86.1              59.8               58.6               50.0
- ISAR's Sates                    51.9              65.8               64.4               55.0
Sub-total                      138.0             125.6              123.0              105.0
C. Local Financial Resources
percentage of Staff Costs        110.7              67.4               78.3               64.6
IV Excluding travel allowance.
Source: Rapports d'Audit and FAO/CP Preparation Report.



i                                                w                                                     }                                  t              t\to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UtMrra K-pi.i
RWANDA                                                            i                             t                                                                                £ e                                             t 180
First Agicultural Research Project                                                                                                                          UGANDA
Premier Projet de RecJerd,e Agricole
ISAR Rosoerob Stst.con  (10) 
Centrde doRedhlore o\SAf (R10)                                                                                                                                                                                                        TANZANIA
8rg eera Gioea Migongo Rural Servotes Project-Phane IIA
Bogooera Slerk. Uignngo, PrJt op   So,viceesadoDdeloppo,nont RcrJl-Phoool I-I% N IJ::                                                                                                             -i  i         '      3
Lake Kivr Coffee and FOOD Crop  mronmveMo Pr)ocht                            \_,_
Proje dAo,dlArne*Ainn do aCoMWiinureetdo Cuwfe Viro dane to Rgiom dcaLoI Kwu                                   ZAIRE
Chinolsoe naojool t s -   x     
Muer. Agricouro anod Liveetok Daeolpnent Projet-Phaoe it
PRoorde 0vvoppoetnooAgrofpatRuIeldu °uRtere-Ph Il  
httegrete   Fnreeb y   end  U voee n k  O evO l,opm en  ProjetI    (Glb hW a di  S ob'Pro joctb /i)S                                       x    , j \ . L a o                       {        ld              *>]                       ,
*,'>-Pr~~~~'*"'°                                                                                                   <                                                                          X                         .,ub       1> e
Birunga Mali. PMjeict                                                                      /                                                                                                                      NAT
Ap.icltnra Regin Boadosre
ljmto do  dgosgioo                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARK
Rivem,.
vrotles   tondaM
Icohyetoc on r                                                                                                                                                                                                         2n
Agricultural Regions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
R6gions AgricoolS
Ibob
Uak Ron Raglan
3   Bonimar LenGe
4   re~i.orsde/a
Zaie-Nie O=.d H.gttlNo
5   Zir oHa2eAftNd doCEe Zuair-Nl.
CIntrnd PlteaQu                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
7 PIStoec Co"ntro
9   fsa GMkw                                                                                                                                                    'a                                                                  1
l2                                                                                   2                                                                                                  BURUNNDA
*   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
o      10      20      s0      40      500£l<L                                                                                                                                                                                        /N 
o           to            0          so                                                                                                                                                                                 uorV
BURUNDIAZAA                                                                                                                                       7



