Do fument or
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repsit Nob P-3927-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMNENDAIION
OFTHE       -
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERTATIONtAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO U'S1I1.5 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
January 22, 1985
tlfir oidd d_tm  lftlsm  may not ollwie be diwlsed - eddBkatorit iol w.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(since September 1983)
US$1.00 - Bwandese franc (RvF) 97.00
RuF 100 - US$1.03
FISCAL YEAR
Gc werument: January 1 - December 31
ISAR:        January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CERAI      -  Centres d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal Int6grf (In.e-
grated Rural and Crafts Development Teaching Centers)
CGIAR      -  Consultative Group for International Agricaltural. Research
CIAT       -  International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CI2MYT     -  International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP        -  International Pbtato Center
EDF (FED) -  European Development Fund
FAC        -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO        -  Food and Agriculture Organization (United Nations)
FSIP       -  Farming Systems Improvement Project
GERDAT     -  Groupement d 'Etudes et de Recherche pour le Developpement de
1'Agronomie Tropicale (Study and Research Group for the
Development of Tropical Agronomy)
IARCs      -  International Agricultural Research Centers
ICRAF      -  International Council for Research in Agro-forestry
IDRC       -  Int"rnational Development Research Center
IFAD       -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFCC       -  Institut Frangais du Cafe et du Cacao (French Coffee and
Cocoa Institute)
IITA       -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
ILCA       -  International livestock Center for Africa
INEAC      -  Institut National pour 1'Etude Agronomique du Congo Belge
(National Institute for Agronomy of the Belgian Congo)
ISAR       -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
ISNAR      -  International Service for National Agricultural Research
MINAGRI    - Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
PAR        -  Projet Agricole de Kibuye
PNTAP      -  Programme National pour 1'Amelioration de la Pomme de Terre
(National Program for Potato Improvement)
SSS        -  Selected Seed Service
UNR        -  National University of Rwanda
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development                      i
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (i)               =         3.3  feet
I hectare                 =         2.47  acres
I are (100 m2)                      0.02  acre
1 kilometer (km)                    0.62 mile
1 are (100 m2)                      0.01 hectare
I square kilometer (km2)  =         0.39  square miles (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                     2.2   pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                         0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OMFICLAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECr
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Rwandese Republic
Amouat:          SDR 11.7 million (US$ 11.5 million equivalent)
*        Terms:            Standard IDA terms
Beneficiary:     Ministry of Agriculture, ISAR (Agriculture Research
Institute of Rwanda)
Project
Description:   (i) Objectives and Content:  The Project would constitute
a first phase of a long-term support program to strengthen
the national agricultural research in Rwanda, and to make
agricultural research activities more responsive and
applicable to the needs and constraints of the producers.
The Project would consist in: the development of a long-
term master plan for agricultural research, including a
national seed multiplication and distribution policy and a
long-term anpower development plan; support of on-going
research programs; institutional development of ISAR
(Rwanda's national research organization) through rein-
forcement and reorganization of research efforts, the
expansion of farming systems and on-farm research, better
linkages between research and extension activities, and
the improvement of research management; development, reha-
bilization and equipping of research station facilities
and other essential agricultural and laboratory equipment;
provision of a soils map of Rwanda; and support to the
Agriculture Faculty and to the Department of Geography of
the University of Rnanda to increase the research
capabilities of studerts and faculty.
(ii) Benefits: Benefits would include strengthening of
Rwanda's agricultural research efforts, which in turn are
a prerequisite for sustained agricultural development.
By strengthening individual research programs and setting
them in the context of a longer-tern master plan, the pro-
ject would assist in directing research to priority areas,
adapring it to Rwanda's needs, and coordinating external
assistance amongst all donors funding agricultural re-
search in Rwanda.
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutes Its contents may not otherwos bc discosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
(iii) Risks: Delays in upgrading research staff and/or
their recruitment could slow down the Project's
execution. Incomplete development of linkages between
research and extension could delay diffusion of newly
generated technologies and their impact at farm level.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
Local         Foreign          Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Capital Costs                       2.1             3.6             5.7
Researen Staff Expenditure           1.1            1.1             2.2
Operating Costs                     3.8             2.5             6.3
Base Cost                        7.0             7.2            14.2
Physical Contingencies              0.4             0.4             0.8
Price Contingencies                 1.9             1.1             3.0
Total Project Costs              9.3             8.7            18.02/
_~~ _
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign          Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Government                          5.1             0.2             5.3
ISAR                                0.6             0.6             1.2
IDA                                 3.6             7.9            11.5
TOTAL                            9.3             8.7            18.0
_               _-
Estmared Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Years
FY85      FY86     FY87     FY88     FY89      FY90
US$ Millions
Annual            1.2       2.0      2.3       2.7      2.4      0.9
Cumulative        1.2       3.2      5.5       8.2     10.6     11.5
Appraisal Report:  No. 5181-RW of January 10, 1985
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Map:               IBRD 18308
1/ Import duties would not be levied on the pro4ect; base costs are at
January 1984 prices and include 5 percent taxes on civil works, locally
procured equipment and operating costs (US$0.4 million).
21 Including an advance of US$687,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AI-' RECOK4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EYW UTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CRE:T TO THE RIANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandesc Republic for the equivalent of SDRs
11.7 million (US$11.5 million) on s.andard IDA terms, to help -finnce a
First Agricultural Research Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY if
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed
economic developments in Rwanda until that date. These developments,
updated when possible, are suumar!zed below. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.        Rwanda is a small landlocked country, surrounded by Uganda,
Tanzania, Burundi and Zaire. It has the third highest population density
of low income countries, at 210 persons/km2 (following Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka), and its GNP per capita is among the lowest in the world, estimated
at about US$240 in 1982. Rwanda's population of 5.5 million in 1982 is
predominantly rural (with only 4.5 percent in urban areas), and lives in
small individual farms scattered over hilly terrain. The balance between
food production and population is precarious, as potentially arable land is
scarce, yields of most fooderops have been stagnan;, and population is
expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent annually. Twice recently (1974 and
1980), Rwanda had to resort to emergency food imports. Agricultural
exports (coffee, tea, pyretbrum, cinchona) provide most of the country's
foreign exchange earnings. Coffee is by far the most important source (56
percent) followed by mining products (16 percent), mainly cassiterite and
wolfram. Rwanda's manufacturing base Is narrow, and growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and by the lack of
raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills and skilled
*          manpower.  The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel,
petroleum products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually
every modern consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by high
transportation costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to
t          the seaports at Mombasa and Dar es Salaam.
4.        A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's economic performance can
only be tentative, as the national accounts estimates are based upon data
1/ Par. I of this report is substantially the same as that in Report No.
P-3822-RW on the Power Project considered by the Executive Directors on
June 12, 1984.



- 2 -
of dubious reliability. These estimates suggest that during the period
1977-82 the rate of growth of real GDP averaged about 5 percent per annum,
on the strength of reasonably good performance by most sectors, except
those engaged in production for export. The recent growth of the
agricultural sector can be explained, to a significant extent, by good
weather conditions, increased world coffee prices In the late 1970s,
improvement of the road network, and the rapid growth of urban and
project-induced demand. Official production data indicate that foodcrop
output (about 36 percent of GDP) increased at an average annual rate of
about 5 percent In the period 1977-82, but this estimate may prove to be
overstated.  In any even;, it is the judgment of informed observers that
the balance between food production and popula.ion remains precarious, as
food production is vulnerable to weather conditions and population is
increasing rapidly. With the exception of tea, the production of export
crops was disappointing during 1978-82. Largely influenced by weather, and
In spite of substantial increases in 1978 and 1981, coffee production
tended to stagnate.   Absolute declines were recorded for .he country's two
other expor. crops, pyrechrum and cinchona.  After having expanded at an
average rate of 11 percent per annum, tea production also declined in 1982
(due to competition from other crops and lack of fertilizers), and the
industry has experienced difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of
green leaves to process for export.
5.      Mining production also declined during 1977-82, at an average
annual raze of 4 percent. This poor performance has been a consequence of
various factors, among them management problems at SOMIRWA (the mining
company), equipment obsolescence, and substantial increases in production
costs (mainly the wage bill) while world market prices have fallen and the
Rwandese franc (linked until September 1983 to the United States dollar)
had appreciazed vis-a-vis the country's major trading partners (para. 11).
6.      Manufacturing growth was, on average, 5 percent during 1977-82,
largely reflecting agricultural performance as an estimated three-quarters
of manufacturing output consists of the transformation of agricultural pro-
ducta, mainly banana and sorghum, into beer, and agro-industries (coffee,
tea, sugar).  Modern manufacturing has been limited to import substitution
industries such as shoes, textiles, soap, plastic utensils, corrugated iron
sheets, all of which rely on imported raw materials. A cement plant
located in Cyangugu (southwest Rwanda) is due to start operations next year
and is expected to make Rwanda self-sufficient in cement.
7.      Tertiary sector activities experienced a fairly rapid expansion
during 1977-82. Commerce and transportation increased at an average annual
rate of 6 percent reflecting increases in marketed foodcrop production,
manufacturing output, and imports (especially of consumer and intermediate
goods). Traffic on Rwandese roads is estimated to have expanded at about 7
percent per annum, the fleet of pick-ups doubled during 1979-82, and
imports of transport equipment increased at nearly 9 percent in real terms,
albeit all from a very small base.
8.      Tradicionally, the Government has pursued prudent fiscal policies.
A principal indicator of this was the budget surpluses incurred during



- 3 -
1977-81 (on average, 2.5 percen, ot GDP). The GoveramenCs ability to
sustain these surpluses was aided by favorable terms of trade, which served
to raise export duties (particularly in 1977-79, following .he rise In
coffee prices) and import duties (insofar as Rwanda's exports financed a
relatively large volume of imports, upon which the revenue structure Is
highly dependent).  Also, substantial capital Inflows facilitated thle
growth in imports, thereby adding to government revenues. In 1977-81,
nearly 50 percent of central government revenues 'which averaged 10 percent
of GDP) came from import and export taxes, with coffee exports alone con-
tributing 21 percent; taxes on beverages, and on income and property
accounted for most of the remainder. Expenditures w.ere distributed mainly
among administrative services (25 percent), education (26 percent), and
defense (20 percent). Expenditures on agriculture and public works have
expanded faster than total expenditures In recent years.
9.      The fiscal situation, however, has deteriorated since 1981.  In
contras; to the preceding years, increases in revenue have fallen short of
inc-reases in expenditure. Budgetary receipts from coffee export duties
have stagna;ed a. lower levels than .hose of previous years as a result of
declining coffee prices and in spite of higher export volumes. At the same
time, there has been a significant expansion in government expenditures
reflecting, inter alia, the impact of the general wage increase granted in
September 1980, the addition of a new Ministry of Higher Education, and
implementation of the 1979 education reform. In an effort to expand the
revenue base and increase revenue, the Government introduced a new business
tax in 1981 which, however, has not. yielded sufficient revenues co
compensate for the decline in revenue from coffee. As a result of these
developments, the overall budgetary balance has shifted from a surplus of
RwF 1.0 billion in 1980 (equivalent to 1 percent of GDP) to deficits of RwF
2.2 billion and RwF 3.0 billion in 1981 and 1982, respectively. In an
attempt to arrest the fiscal deterioration, the Government increased import
tariffs in January 1982 and taxes on beer and cigarettes, in January 1983.
10.     The Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary
and crediz policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neigh-
boring countries, increased international transport costs, and increased
prices of imports and domestic foodstuffs.  Inflation averaged 10.6 percent
per annum during 1977-82; it peaked at 15.8 percent in 1979, primarily as a
result of the closing of the Uganda border, but also reflecting higher
transport costs following the 1979-80 oil price rise. In 1983, inflation
was down to 6.5 percent, as trade flows through Uganda were normal and the
rate of increase of import prices decelerated.
11.     Rwanda's increased export earnings (until 1980) and large inflows
of foreign grants and loans enabled the country, during 1977-81, to in-
crease imports substantially and to build up international reserves. In
real terms, imports of goods and non-fac;or services expanded at an average
annual rate of 5 percent and averaged 27 percent of GDP. At the same time,
Rwanda's gross international reserves reached, at end-1981, an amount equi-
valent to nearly seven months of estimated 1982 imports of goods and non-
factor services. Since 1982, however, Rwanda has been suffering reserve



losses as coffee export receipts have remained at about the sam (de-
pressed) levels of 1980-81, foreign grants and loans have declined, while
imports have continued to expand rapidly. In an attempt to arrest the
deterioration of the balance of payments and minimize the future impact of
exchange rate variability among the major currencies on t.re external
current account, the Government delinked the Rwandese franc from the United
States dollar in September, 1983 and pegged it instead to the SDR, at the
rate of RwF 102.71 = 1 SDR. This was equivalent to a devaluation of the
Rwandese franc vis-3-vis the United States dollar of 5-6 percent. Such a
measure should contribute to stemming the loss in reserves which by
October, 1983, were down to the equivalent of four months of projected 1984
imports of goods and non-factor services.
12.     Rwanda's Third Development Plan, like its predecessor, remains
essentially a qualitative document which provides a broad statement of
national development priorities?/ but lacks a multi-year sectoral invest-
ment program, key Input and output targets (in physical as well as finan-
cial terms), and an agenda of policy and lnstitutional reforms for imple-
menting the overall strategy. Other important weaknesses of the planning
process are: the absence cf a mechanism for periodically assessing the
changing outlook regarding resource availabilities and the feasibility of
the projected levels of investment and the weak linkage between the
planning and budgetary processes. In consequence of these deficiencies,
Rwanda's plans have not served as effective instruments of economic manage-
ment. Nevertheless, the Government has made serious efforts to pursue the
Plan's objectives. The limited success of these efforts bas been largely
due to the country's structural constraints (among them the critical popu-
lation problem), Institutional weaknesses (stemming largely from lack of
skilled personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial resources. At
the same time, the lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation of institu-
tional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned agencies
have limi.ed the country's capacity to absorb external resources.
13.     The Government has taken steps to address these problems.  Of par-
zicular importance have been actions concerned with the extremely rapid
population growth, and the lack of education and training. In 1980 it
established the National Population Office (ONAPO) to plan, coordinate, and
monitor all population activities.  ONAPO has started to sensitize the
population about the implications of excessive demographic pressure on the
country's limited resources, a few pilot family planning programs have been
set up, and a nationwide fertility survey, now completed, is expected to                j
provide valuable information on the potential demand for family planning.
Obviously, the impact of these measures will be felt only in the long-run.
Meanwhile, the population, growing at 3.6 percent annually, is expected to
double by the year 2000. To address the problem of lack of education and
training, the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 whose
2/ As in the Second Plan, five of the six main goals of the Third Plan re-
late to the satisfaction of basic needs: (i) food self-sufficiency;
Cii) job creation, to ensure an adequate family income; (iii) education
and training; (iv) improvement of basic health services; and (v)
provision of minimum standard housing.



objectives are appropriate to the country's needs, but whose implementation
has been hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers. In
order to facilitate more coherent economic management, the Government was
reorganized on January 6, 1984. The reorganization included combining the
M(inistry of the Economy and Commerce with the Ministry of Finance.
*         14.     As mentioned earlier, external aid (of US$25-30 per capita) was an
important catalyst to the country's favorable economic performance d'tring
1977-81. This aid has been mainly for infrastructure and technical
assistance, most of which (58 percent) has benefitted agriculture, educa-
tion, and health care.  These three sectors, together with transport and
communlcations, received nearly 65 percent of the aid extended to Rwanda In
1982, an emphasis which is in line with the country's objectives and prio-
rities. The principal sources of foreign assistance and their average
share during 1977-82 were Belgium (27 percent), the European Development
Fund (14 percent), the Federal Republic of Germany (8 percent), IDA (7 per-
cent), and France (6 percent). Rwanda has carried out Article IV consulta-
tions with the IMF regularly, but it has not requested IMF financial
assistance.
15.     Economic management in recent years has been prudent, as evidenced
by relatively low inflation rates, low debt service ratio, and avoidance of
projects of dubious economic justification. This was undoubtedly faci-
litated by substantial aid inflows and favorable terms of trade in the
early part of the period. The terms of trade have deteriorated since 1980
and are projected to continue to deteriorate during the '80s. It is thus
evident that the country's need for external assistance will increase sub-
stantially. Its external debt is still manageable. At end-1982, the
medium- and long-term external debt outstanding (disbursed only) amounted
to US$189.3 million equivalent, or 13 percent of GDP, and the debt service
racio was equivalent Lo only 2.8 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services. Hence, there remains scope for further borrowing. However,
given the poverty of the country, Its overwhelming constraints and vulnera-
bility, and its unfavorable medium-term prospects, external funds should
continue to be provided in the form of grants or loans at highly conces-
sionary terms, and include a high proportion of local cost financing and
non-project assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA 3/
16.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on
the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production. Rwanda has received twenty-one IDA credits totalling US$217
million, of which five (totalling US$69.0 million) were for roads, seven
(US$80.9 milllon) for agriculture (para. 29), three (US$16.2 million) for
DFC projects, two (US$18.0 million reduced to US$16.4 million) for educa-
3/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in Report No.
P-3822-RW on the Power Project, considered by the Executive Directors
on June 12, 1984.



- 6 -
tion, one (US$7.5 million) for telecommunications, one (US$5.0 million) for
technical assistance, one (US$13.0 million) for water supplv, and one
(US$9.0 million) for power. There have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of
US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed in 1976; a second IFC loan of
US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up to US$60,000 to expand
the tea factory were signed in Septetiber 1980.  Annex tI contains a summary
statement of TDA credits and  IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
17.       A US$13.0 million credit for a Water Supply Project (1345-RW)
became effective February 14, 1984.  The project Is on schedule and bidding
activities have proceeded smoothly.  A US$15.0 million credit, which
represents Rwanda's share of the Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric project
benefitting Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, was signed on April 4, 1984. A
US$9.0 million credit for a power project was signed on August 10, 1984.
18.       In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled
US$49.1 million compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. In the
same period, zhe average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change In dis-
bursements to undisbursed balance) was 19 percent; this is about average
for countries of the Eastern Africa Region.
19.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the
shortage of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and
Inhibits project preparation and implementation. Intensive technical
assistance and on-the-job tralning of Rwandese staff are therefore a
salient feature of the Bank's program for Rwanda, either under individual
projects in the various sectors or through the Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1214-RW declared effective November 22, 1982) which is promoting
inter-ministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring, and
aims at strengthening the Minlstry of Planning. A second technical
assistance project is envisaged to promote better coordination in economic
policy-making and to help strengthen in particular the recently reorganized
Ministry of Finance and Economy.
20.       The primary emphasis of Bank Group operations will remain on
agriculture and rural development, the main objeczive being to increase
food production as well as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility.
A major emphasis will also be placed on the development of human resources,
focusing on population planning and support to basic education and skills
training to improve agricultural productivity, provide skilled manpower,
and influence attitudes on ;he population Issue. Further investment Is
also justified for infrastructure and, in particular, for roads to reduce
the country's Isolation and provide Incentives to further intensification
of agriculture as well as increased specialization and diversification
through better marke;ing. Another area requiring our special attention is
energy to lessen the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their impact on
the balance of payments.



PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
21.       General.  Rwanda Is hilly to mountainous with elevation and rain-
fall increasing from east and west. The country Is characterized by a
wide diversity in agro-ecological situations and corresponding farming
10         systems.  The western part (Lake Kivu), the central high plateau and the
northern volcanic highland areas have the highest agricultural potential,
and also the highest population density (300 to 600 inhabitants per square
4         kilometer of usable land).  The semi-arid eastern savannah, traditionally a
*          grazing area sparsely populated, is increasingly being settled as a result
of the recent control of the tsetse fly and mounting population pressures
elsewhere In the country. About half the total area is currently
exploitable for agricultural purposes. Of this, 50 percent is planted in
foodcrops: beans, sweet potatoes, cassava, beer, banana and sorghum (and
more recently, potatoes, maize and peas). About 5 percent is under export
or industrial crop cultivation - mainly coffee, but also tea - and approxi-
mately 40 percent .s used as pasture land, wood lots and fallow. Rapidly
growing population pressure (para. 3) has resulted in an expansion of the
area under cultivation at the expense of forested areas, grazing lands and
the prac;ice of fallow. Declining land availability has forced intensi-
fication of agriculture through double cropping. Productivity per hectare
has been falling as a result of Increased cultivation of marginal lands and
decreasing soil fertility due to intensification and erosion In some
fragile areas. Population pressure has also led to a diminishing average
farm size, with more than half of all farm families occupying less than 1
hectare. Average rural family income is equivalent to ahout US$550 (about
US$70 per capita).
22.       Agriculture in the Economy.  The agricultural sector Is the most
important contributor to the national ecenomy. Its share of GDP at current
prices has averaged about 46 percent over the last five years, with sub-
sistence agriculture accounting for an ewtimated 80 percent of this.  In
1981, agricultural products represented 79 percent of the total value of
exports, with coffee alone accounting for 60 percent and tea for another 10
percent.
23.       Up to the present, foodcrop production appears to have kept pace
with population growth, roughly maintaining national food self-
sufficiency. Nevertheless, some dependence has been developing on imports
of certain types of food products (wheat, rice, salt and oils).  Food
imports, exclusive of food aid, averaged about 9 percent of total recorded
imports during 1977-80. Food aid, contributed mainly by ;he TJnited States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the EEC and the World Food
Program (UNDP), was estimated at about 7,000 tons in 1980 and 11,000 tons
in 1982 (essentially grain flour, oil and powdered milk).
24.       As noted in para. 4, agricultural output expanded at 5 percent
per annum during the period 1977-82. This rate of growth, however, is no
longer sustainable. The economy is facing a period of unprecedented con-
straints, both physical and technical at the farm level and financial and
institutional at the national (governmental) level. There is not much



- B -
scope for expansion of cultivated area In the future, and therefore
increases in production must come essentially from intensification of
production at the farm level. On the national level, the current market
forecast for Rwanda's major export crops is not favorable, and economic
recession in the principal donor countries has resulted in aid cutbacks and
uncertainty in the level of future concessionary aid.
25.       Production Trends.   During the last ten years, foodcrop produc-
tion Increased by about 50 percent, with growth coming mainly from an
expansion ln the area under cultivation of about 40 percent.  Over that
period, and except for sweet potatoes, yields of most foodcrops have
remained stable or have decreased. Because of population growth and
limited land availability, cattle herd size is declining and there are
indications of gradual replacement of cattle by small ruminants, pigs and
chickens. The country's natural forest resources are endangered by growing
pressure for cropping land and by lack of adequate protection. Natural
forest reserves cover 6.5 percent of ;he total land and are estimated to be
declining a; a rate of 5 percent per annum. Reforestation is actively
being promoted by the Government.
26.       Although export crops contribute only about 5 percent of GDP and
occupy less than 5 percent of the total cultivated area, they constitute
the major source of foreign exchange earnings for the country. The area
under export crops increased by 45 percent from 1970 to 1980. Coffee
represents 75 percent of the area under cultivation for export crops, and
it is now spreading to areas considered marginal for its cultivation.
Production has remained fairly stable over recent years, resulting in
exports of between 15,000 to 18,000 tons of green coffee, short of
Rwanda's current quota under the International Coffee Agreement (25,400
Lons). In the past, the emphasis in research and production has been on
yield maximization rather than quality improvement. The area under tea
cultivation has increased steadily from about 1,600 ha in 1970 to 7,800 ha
in 1981. The crop has no major problems or diseases that would require
extensive research. The quality of tea is at present among the best in the
world. Production of pyrethrum and cinchona has remained limited and
erratic in the past and their future is highly uncertain due to the
potenLial for development of cheaper synthetic substitutes.
27.       Sector Issues and Strategy.  A review of the agricultural sector
conducted by the Rank was the subject of discussions (November 1983) with
the Government, and its main conclusions and proposals for priority actions
were agreed upon. The analysis suggests two overall objectives. First, an
agricultural strategy for Rwanda should focus on maintaining national food
self-sufficiency in light of Rwanda's rapidly expanding population. This
is a priority objective of the Government's Third Dkvelopment Plan
(1982-1986) and is also at the center of the recently published Food
Strategy Report on Rwanda, prepared jointly by EEC and the Government.
Second, agricultural exports, which account for a critical portion of
Rwanda's foreign exchange, must be sustained and expanded with a focus on
improving quality.
28.       These ,wo objectives can best be achieved through a systematic
policy encouraging broad based growth in production, .,ith the expected



- 9 -
increases likely to result mainly from intensification of production.
Priority actions to promote intensification include the generation and dis-
tribution of new and improved technologies, which are urgently needed and
should be attractive to farmers. The priorities for action, therefore,
should be in developing and strengthening agricultural research,
agricultural extensioc and the production and distribution of inputs.
Concurrently, i. is essential to maintain, and if possible to improve, the
agriculteral land, which is Rwanda s most important productive capital and
is increasingly .hreatened by declining fertility and erosion.
£          29.        Previous Bank Group Involvement. IDA lending for the rural
sector has amounted to US$80.9 willion for seven operations, as follows:
{i) four area development projects in the eastern savannah zone for a total
of US$43.1 million; (ii) two area development projects in the Lake Kivu
and Zaire-Nile divide zones zotalling US$36.0 million; and (iii) one more
narrowly focussed (cinchona) agricultural development project (US$1.8
million). Through these projects, the Bank has been involved in develop-
ment efforts in several ecological zones covering a broad spectrum of re-
gional development activities in all of the maior sub-sectors: foodcrops,
export crops (coffee and cinchona), forestry and livestock.
30.       Performance Evaluation   To date* the Hutara Agricultural Deve-
lopment Project - Phase I (Credit 439-RU) is the only project for which a
PPAR (Sec. M81-570, 1981) is available. Completion reports for the
Cinchona (Credit 656-RW) and Bugesera Gisaka Migongo - Phase I (Credit
668-M) Projects are under preparation. Even though the economic impact of
these early projects did not produce the expected increase in agricultural
output, substantial achievements have been realized in the areas of infra-
structure development and the establishment of a core of technical and
managerial cadres, and relatively efficient administrative and financial
control systems.
31.       Problems affecting these and other on-going IDA projects include:
Ci) insufficient knowledge of Rwanda's complex farming systems, which
hampers the design of appropriate technical packages; (ii) a lack of
training and experience among Rwandese management; (iii) a poor statistical
base, which prevents adequate monizoring of project progress; and (iv)
insufficient emphasis on financial matters such as cost recovery and
recurrent cost financing; (v) inadequate budgetary resources; (vi) unclear
and sometimes inconsistent sub-sector policies and investment criteria; and
(vii) poor coordination of donor supported ac.ivities.
32.       Sector Lending S,rategy   Based on this experience and in line
with Government's strategy emphasizing foodcrop production, the Bank Group
is proposing to focus its lending strategy over the next few years on
support for the following priority areas: (i) development of government
agricultural services through the strengthening of national systems in the
fields of agricultural research, agricultural and veterinary extension, and
eventually agricultural credit; (ii) development of the private sector in
areas (such as marketing, input supply and agro-industry) where the private
sector has a comparative advantage; (iii) development and diversification
of export crops; (iv) coordination of activities combining erosion control,



- 10 -
reforestation and agricultural devrlopment; (v) strengthening of sectoral
management through improved agricultural planning; project preparation,
monitoring and evaluation; financial budgeting and control; and (vi)
identification of training priorities, particularly in .he area of public
sector management.
33.       Agricultural Research. L'InstItut des Sciences Agronomiques dui
Rwanda (ISAR), created after independence in 1962, Is responsible for agri-
cultural and livescock research. Most of ISAR's income is derived from
government budgetary allocations (equivalent to USS640,000 in 1982) and
sales of its products (USS370,000, also 1982).  Through 1981, ISAR was
supported mainly by Belgian aid and received limited funds from the Inter-
national Development Research Center (IDRC-Canada) for research on sorghum,
triticale and oil seed crop breeding. The Swiss Government provides
assistance in fores.ry, and coffee and some foodcrop research is supported
under the Lake Kivu Coffee and Foodcrop Project (Crediz 1066-RW). ISAR
manages seven research stations and employs about 1,000 workers, 35 tech-
nicians and 16 full time Rw-andese research workers (of whom only one holds
a PhD).
34.       ISAR's four technical departments cover:  crops (including
trees), animal production, laboratory investigations (including plan. pro-
tection), amd environmental improvement. TSAR's research efforts have
resulted ir. improving husbandry standards for industrial crops, particu-
larly Lea and coffee. ISAR has also introduced new bean and soybean
varieties and trials are underway covering several new maize, sweet potato,
wheat and trizicale varieties. It has worked on blight resistant potato
and virus resistant manioc varieties and has introduced grafted avocado
trees.
35.       In general, however, ISAR's program has been insufficiently
focussed on farm systems and adaptive trials on farmers' fields. Moreover,
research efforts have been conducted in isolation from the traditional
farming context.  These problems are beginning to be addressed, and inter-
cropping trials are now being carried out at the Rubona station (ISAR's
current headquarters).  Two programs are underway on farming systems, one
with French assistance in the 7aire-Nile divide region, and the other
financed under the BGM II Project (Credit 1283 RIW) and execured under an
agreemen. between ISAR and the International Institute for Tropical Agri-
culture (IITA). A third program, the Farming Systems Improvement Project,
-"hich has been proposed for USAID financing, would focus on .he middle and              (
t...gh altitude region of the Rwerere station in the northwest, and is under
preparation.
36.       Over the last zen years, ISAR has intensified its collaboration
with the International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCS) of the Con-
sulrative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) system.
Areas of collaboration include the following: (i) the International Potato
Center (CIP) continues to support potato research; (ii) the International
Institute for Tropical Agricalture (IITA) is assisting with research on
cassava and sweet potatoes; (iii) Lhe International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Center (CiMMYT) is cooperating in wheat and triticale research



- 11 -
and may extend its involvement in maize research through the Birunga MKaize
Project, financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD); and (iv) the International Center for Tropical Agriculzure (CIAT)
started in 1983, with the aid of Swiss financing, an ambitious expansion of
.he bean research program.
37.       Other Agricultural Serrices.  The shortage of ;rained manpower in
agriculture remains a serious constraint in Rwanda. However, some efforts
Lo provide more and betzer training are underway. The Agricultural Faculty
of the University of Rwanda in But-re was created in 1977 and turns ou- 12
to 14 graduates annually. Students grad.tate after six years (three years
of general science education and threa years of general agronomy and re-
lated subjects) and some go abroad for further specialization. Rwandese
university-level training in agronomy compares to the B.Sc. level of
European/American counterparts and is, therefore, generally insufficient
for the kind of independent P-i'k expected from an agricultural research
worker. Technical training for research technicians in agriculture and
veterinary sciences is currently being provided in three schools: a fourth.
school is now under construction. Research station foremen and skilled
workers are trained in Rwanda's 180 Centres d'Enseignement Rural et
Artisanal Int-gre (CERAI).
38.       The agricultural extension system is generally weak and inef-
fective. Agricultural technology and extension messages are insufficiently
adapted to farmers' needs, and the system is crippled by poor coordinazion
among development projects, inappropriate and ofter coercive extension
methods, and irregular supervision. There is, however, a growing awareness
of these problems, and a project to introduce a national extension system
and zo provide for improved management and training is presently being pre-
pared for possible IDA financing.
39.       All breeder seeds in Rwanda are produced by ISAR.  Seed multipli-
cation and distribution is the responsibility of the Selected Seed Service
(SSS) of MINAGRI. The present situation is characterized by: (i) insuffi-
cient collaboration bet*.,een ISAR and SSS; (ii) lack of trained staff and
infrastru.ure; (iii) no formally instituted seed control and certifica-
tion systetn;  (iv) insufficient multi-location trials to determine the
adaptabilizy of research results to the variety of agro-climatic conditions
*          in Rwanda;  and most important (v) poor quality of breeder seeds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The Governmenc of twanda has decided to reorient its agricultural
research efforts to improve tl2ir efficiency and to ensure tbat research
efforts support directly its rural development strategy. As a first step
in establishing a new research strategy, an international seminar was held
in February 1983 with participants from Rwanda, International Agricultural
Research Centers (IARCs), aid agencies, and the Bank. The International



- 12 -
Service for National ag icultural Research (ISNAR) assisted in preparing
the seminar. Subsequently, a series of preparation missions assisted in
detailed project preparation and by September 1983, agreement was reached
on the broad outlines of a three-year Agricultural Research Project.
41.        Intensive preparation work has since been underway, financed in
part by a Project Preparation Facility of US$687,000, approved in June
1983.  A final preparation mission of the Bank and ISNAR visited Rwanda in
November/December 1983, followed by an appraisal mission with ISNAR and the
International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) in April 1984. Negotia-
.ions were held in Washington from December 13 to 19, 1984. The Pwandese
delegation was headed by R.E. Anastase Ntezilyayo, Minister of Agriculture,
Livestock and Forestry. The Staff Appraisal Repor. No. 5181-RW dated
January 10, 1985, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The proposed project would have two central objectives.  First,
it would support the Government's ongoing efforts to develop a mas er plan
for agricultural research with a 15 to 20 year time per-spective, including
a national certified seed multiplication and distribution policy (para. 39)
and a manpower development plan. Second, it would support on-going ISAR
research programs during the project period and assist in making them mDre
problem oriented, establishing multidisciplinary research teams on priority
commodities and improving linkages between research and extension. An
important aspect of the project would be its support for improved
coordination of the numerous externally financed research programs in
Rwanda. This project, which is designed to be the first phase of a
longer-term effort, would also support detailed preparatory work for
investment and development programs in agricultura' research beyond the
first phase.
43.       More specifically, the project would:  (i) provide technical
assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture for the preparation of the re-
search master plan; (ii) support replacement of the existing fragmented
research efforts with a system of nationally coordinated multidisciplinary
teams along commodity lines; (iii) strengthen and coordinate the ongoing
and planned regional research progran on farming systems; (iv) support the
improvement of research management and progra minj, capacity of ISAR; (v)
establish a research documentation center; (vi) strengthen capabilities
for evaluation and application of new technologies and links with extension
work; (vii) strengthen linkage with external technical assistance; (viii)
develop, construct, rehabilitate and equip research stations, and other
important infrastructure; (ix) provide a soils map of Rwanda; and (x)
support for the Faculty of Agronomy and the Department -f Geography of the
University of Rwanda. The Project would assist ISAR in implementing 21
research programs, of which 16 are ongoing, four are starting-up with other
donor funding and one new program would be initiated under the Project. Of
these twenty-one programs, three would concentrate on pursuing systems
research, nine on foodcrops, two on cash crops, two on fruits, three on
livestock, and two on forestry and agro-forestry research.



- 13 -
44.       To implement these programs, ISAR would be reorganized into four
multidisciplinary research departments (Crop Production; Environmental
Studies and Production Systems; Animal Production; and Forestry and
Agro-fores,ry) and a Financial and Administrative Service. This should
make research more problem-oriented and provide technical assistance for
research programming, budgeting, financial management, and would support
.he establishment of an annual research program review system. Overseas
training for Rwandese scientists, infrastructure rehabilitation and
extension of four research stations (Rubona-Songa, Kara-a, Ruhengeri-
Kinigi and Tamira), construction of a liaison office and some housing in
Kigali and provision of support, maintenance, equipment and research
supplies for the Faculty of Agronomy and the Departmen; of Geography of the
University of Rwanda (in collaboration with ISAR) are also enwisioned. The
Project would support research operating costs such as research supplies
(fertilizers, pes.icides and seeds), vehicle operating costs, and
infrastructure and equipment maintenance as an investment, but would not
finance local staff.
45.       Aid Coodination. To ensure the desired coordination in
implementation and financing of the overall research effort, Government
would invite annually all bilateral and international agencies interested
in the financing of agricultural research in Rwanda to review research
concepts, staffing and financial support for ISAR. To meet this
requirement, the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry would
furnish by September 30 of each year to all agencies, including IDA, the
proposed research programs, corresponding work programs, budgets, financing
plan, staffing and training program and research program review schedule
for comment and suggestions. IDA approval of these documents, following
this consideration by the above agencies, would be a condition of
disbursement (Schedule 1, para. 5 (b); Section 3.04, Development Credit
Agreement) of the proceeds of the proposed credit against vehicles and
equipment; research supplies, vehicle operating costs, and infrastructure
and equipment maintenance (categories 2 and 5, Schedule 1, Development
Credit Agreement). The documents for 1985 would be distributed upon
signature of the Development Credit Agreement (Section 3.04 (b),
Development Credit Agreement). A first donor meetiug was held during
appraisal.
;
Detailed Features
46.       Crops.  Research programs would focus on Rwanda's key crops:
beans, peas, soybeans and groundnuts, maize, sorghum, wheat and triticale,
sunflower, cassava and sweet potatoes, potato, coffee, tea, banana and
avocados. Most of the programs would be limited under this first phase
project to varietal screening, comparative trials (both on-farm and on-
station), and research on identified problems. For many of the crops, the
problems are related to on-farm post-harvest technology (storage, oil
extraction, milling, brewing, nutritional value and organoleptic character-
istics), for which ISAR is not equipped. Requirements for such research
would be studied under the master plan. To gain farmers' confidence in the
quality of seeds being offered, an early action would be to purify the
breeder seed for existing varieties of foodcrops that have proven in the



- 14 -
past to outperform farmer's traditional varieties. To improve seed
multiplication and distribution, proposals would be prepared in the
framework of the master plan, which would be developed by the Ministry of
Agriculture.  These proposals would also provide for a quality control a-d
seed certification system.
47.       Farming Systems.  Two research programs are to be executed by
ISAR:  Bugesera, under IDA financing (BGM II Project, Credit 1283-RW of
September 28, 1982), and Zaire-Nile divide under FAC/FED financing. A
third farming systems research program in the Rwerere region, to be con-
sidered for USAID financing, is under preparation by ISAR in collaboration
with the University of Arkansas.
48.        Livestock.  Livestock research would be reoriented away from
breed improvement of cattle for extensive grazing towards integration of
animal husbandry and agriculture, intensification, and the introduction of
small ruminants and animal nutrition research (a new program). As a
condition of disbursement for infrastructure investment for livestock
research at Karama and Songa stations, ISAR would enter into a formal
agreement with ILCA for support to, and regular review of three livestock
research programs. The agreement would also provide for technical
assistance and training for ISAR's livestock research staff and for an ILCA
expert to undertake analyses of existing data on cattle breeding and to
provide advice (to be received by IDA) on the usefulness of extending
ISAR's cattle breeding program beyond the on-going program (Schedule 1,
para. 5 (c), Development Credit Agreement).
49.        Forestry and Agro-forestry.  Both forestry and agro-forestry
research would become the responsibility of a separate department within
ISAR. ISAR would enter into a formal agreement with the International
Council for Research in Agro-Forestry (ICRAF) for support to, and regular
review of, ISAR's agro-forestry research programs. ICRAF would also pro-
vide technical assistance and training of ISAR's agro-forestry research
staff. Agreement of ISAR and ICRAF to these ends would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
50.       ISAR.  ISAR would be strengthened through:  (i) the establishment
of a Research Programming and Evaluation Unit headed by a Senior Research                 I
Programming and Evaluation Advisor directly attached to the Managing
Director (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)); (ii)
reinforcement of the Financial and Administrative Service;   (iii)
reinforcement of the central support services at Rubona; and (iv)
establishment, staffing, equipping and operation of a full-time liaison
office at Kigali.
51.       Staffing and Training.  By 1987, ISAR would employ, in nine
different locations, a total of 56 scientists (29 would be Rwandan uni-
versity graduates, 22 would be expatriate staff recruited through the
various ongoing donor-funded research projects, and an additional five
would be recruited internationally and funded under the Project), nine
senior scientific administrators, 62 other scientific staff, 24 higher
level administrative staff, 202 lower level administrative staff, and 858
lower level agricultural staff (foremen and laborers).



- 15 -
52.       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:  (i) ISAR would
continue to employ two expatria;e staff financed under the PPF (No. 250)
for the proposed Projec.; (ii) ISAR would recruit Internationally an
animal production systems specialist, an animal nutrition and fodder crops
specialist (both through ILCA), and a senior agricultural economist
specialized in farming systems research; (iii) the Ministry of Agriculture
would recruit internationally an agricultural economist by June 1985; and
(iv) project staff would be appointed for perlods which are appropriate to
the demands of the research program In question. All key staff positions
would be filled by candidates with qualifications, experience, and rerms of
reference acceptable to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
53.       The project includes a training program which would support
ISAR's objective of upgrading staff performing research work. ISAR's long-
term goal is that all its scientists should reach M.Sc. or Ph.D. level, a
goal for which sufficient training funds are available from bilateral
sources. The project would provide for: (i) specialized training, through
71 scholarships of one month to two years duration; and (ii) 56 man-wonths
of short-term consultancies for visiting scientists, 15 man-months of which
would be used for assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) for
the preparation of the research master plan and 41 man-months of which
would be used for specialized consul.ancies to .he research teams and for
program reviews.
54.       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ISAR would:  (i)
submit annually for review and comment to aid agencies Including IDA, a
detailed training program for its staff; and (ii) by early 1986 undertake a
thorough, independent analysis of farming systems research to review the
first results of ongoing research in this field in Rwanda (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(e)).
55.       Civil Works.  The civil works program (US$4.1 million) involves
the rehabilitation and extension of existing operational buildings and
housing units and the construction of additional buildings at Rubona,
Songa, Karama, and Tamira stations and the liaison office at Kigali. The
most noteworthy features are the construction of a cold store at the Rubona
station for seed storage and the extension of ISAR's headquarters at Rubona
to accommodate additional staff. Investments for rangeland improvement at
Karama Station would be subject to the disbursement condition referred to
in para. 48.
56.       For civil works, a firm of executive architects has been hired,
in agreement with IDA and under PPF financing, to prepare the plans for
building construction and site development, implementation schedules, and
bidding and contract documents. The architects will carry out bid
analyses, advise on the award of contracts, and supervise construction.
Detailed design and architect's confidential cost estimates were reviewed
during negotiations and our comments transmEtted. Assurances were given at
negotiations .hat ISAR would obtain the services of an engineer to
supervise the execution of engineering and construction contracts
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).



- 16 -
57.       Vehicles and equipment ($1.9 million) include six tractors, 16
cars, 12 trucks, 20 motorcycles, 15 micro-computers, two word processors,
Lhree generators, and office equipment (US$2,000 per office). To promote
off-station research and increase research efficiency, the mobility of
extension staff would be assured by providing 20 additional motorcycles on
credit. Vehicles and motorcycles would be renewed every three years.
58.       Cartography.  The Project includes multicolor printing of a
1:50,000 soils map of Rwanda. This map would be one of the basic elements
for the inventory of Rwanda's agro-forestry systems. A second element
required for this inventory is a map of Rwanda's agro-ecological zones of a
greater detail than the one presently available. Preparation and
publication of this second map is also included under the Project.
Organization and Management
59.       During negotiations, Government confirmed that ISAR's reorganized
administrative structure had been approved by its Board of Directors along
the lines agreed with IDA (para. 44). To ensure the desired coordination
in implementation and financing of the overall research effort, Government
would Invite annually all bilateral and International agencies interested
ln the financing of agricultural research to review staffing and financial
support for ISAR (para. 45).
60.       ISAR operates seven research stations outside Rubona, each of
which is headed by a Director who will be responsible to program coordi-
nators and/or Department Heads for research and technical activities and to
the Read of Accounting and Administrative Services Department for financial
and administrative matters. Under the Project and as part of the reorga-
nization (para. 44), station Directors would provide agricultural resear-
chers with the necessary support and services, so that the researchers can
execute the research programs as designed. An eighth station at Gishwati,
for small ruminants research, is financed under Credit 1039-RW (Integrated
Forestry and Livestock Development Project).
61.       The Managing Director of ISAR would have overall responsibility
for project implementation. His office would be strengthened by the esta-
blishment of an internal ISAR Research Committee and a Research Programming
and Evaluation Unit (an advisor, recruited by ISNAR, has been in position
since April 1984 with PPF funding). Within the reorganized ISAR structure,
the Managing Director would delegate most daily research management to the
four Research Department Reads (para. 44). Accounting and financial mana-
gement would be delegated to the head of the Financial and Administrative
Service (also in place since April 15, 1984 with PPF funds).
62.       One scientist in each national or regional research team would be
appointed as Research Program Coordinator (team leader). Each coordinator
would be responsible to his or her respective department head for program
implementation. Because several crop research programs are limited in
scope, a research worker may work on more than one crop at a time. There-
fore, several crops would be grouped under one National Program Coordinator
as follows: (i) legumes; (ii) cereals; (iii) tubers; (iv) industrial
crops; and (v) fruit crops.



- 17 -
63.       Program Review.  Annually, each of the national research teams
would prepare Its own research proposal and corresponding budgets. These
would subsequently be reviewed internally by ISAR's Research Committee and
approved by its Board of Directors. External program reviews would be
undertaken by visiting scientists of international repute (acceptable to
IDA), before the proposed multiyear program is initiated, and also upon its
completion. For the longer-term programs of five years duration and more,
mid-term external reviews would also be executed (Sect'on 3.04 (d),
Development Credit Agreement). These reviews would be conducted according
to a format designed by the Research Programming and Evaluation Advisor and
--         agreed to by ISAR's Research Committee.
64.       In addition, ISAR would:  (i) maintain a permanent liaison office
In Kigali; (Ii) submit, by September 30 of each year, its annual work
program and budget for the following year with supporting documents
(including a training program) to all bilateral and international agencies
interested in the financing of agricultural research ir, Rwanda for comments
and revlew and to IDA for approval; and (iii) submit, along with its annual
work program and budget, a detailed schedule of independent annual, mid-term
and final research program reviews and a list of visiting scientists (and
their proposed terms of reference) for either research program support or
program review (Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.04 (b) and
Schedule 1, para. 5 (b)).
65.       Since the purpose of the long-term master plan for agricultural
research would be to respond to farmers' needs and Rwanda's long-term agri-
cultural secLor strategy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Forestry would have primary responsibility for its preparation. The plan
is to be finalized, after review by all aid agencies (incluiding IDA) and
the Government, by September 1986. This would allow one year to prepare a
follow-on agricultural research project corresponding with the first
five-year tranche of the master plan (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.06).
66.       Research-Extension Liaison.  Institutionalized liaison mechanisms
between research and extension are poorly developed. Since the success of
the research effort in the long term depends oe such liaison and efficient
feedback mechanisms from farmers and extension workers, the project would:
(i) actively promote collaboration at the grassroots level between research
and extension workers through research contracts for on-farm adaptive re-
search;  and (ii) develop proposals for institutionalized feedback mecha-
nisms as part of the master plan preparation. In addition, a project
aiming at strengthening the national agricultural extension system is in an
advanced stage of preparation for IDA financing. This project would spe-
cifically address the issue of poor communication between services in the
agricultural sector.
Reporting
67.       By June 30, 1985, ISAR's management would implement a project
reporting system, including quarterly progress reports (civil works,
procurement, project expenditure, recruitment, trainirg, etc.) and annual
scientific reports for review by IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.05).



- 18 -
Project Costs and Financing
68.       Total Project costs for the three year implementation period
(1985-87) are estimated at US$18.0 million, with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$8.7 million or about 48 percent. Costs include direct taxes
of about 5 percent on civil works, locally procured equipment and operating
costs, but exclude import duties which Government has indicated would be
waived. Physical contingencies provided range from 5 percent for operating
costs and training expenses to 20 percent for new coi  ^uction.  Total
expected price increases amount to 16 percent of project costs or 20
percent of base costs, ranging from 15 percent on foreign expenditures to
25 percent on local expenditures at base cost.
69.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.5 million would rinance 64 per-
cent of Project costs. This would cover 90 percent of all civil works; 100
percent of vehicles, equipment and training costs; 80 percent of research
supplies, vehicle operating costs, infrastructure and equipment mainte-
nance; 100 percent of four key expatriate staff, two expatriate research
workers and 56 man-months of short-term consultants and visiting scien-
tists, architect's fees and annual audits. Of the total US$5.3 million
Government participation, 92 percent, or US$4.9 million, would be for local
staff salaries, of which US$1.0 million, or 20 percent, is for salary
increases expected in 1986. Financing of the Project would be shared by
the Government, ISAR and IDA in the proportions of 29, 6, and 65 percent,
respectively, excluding identifiable taxes (US$0.4 million). The
generation of new technology for agriculture is time consuming (a new
variety may take from 10 to 15 years to be developed). Therefore,
Investments in agricultural research do require a long-term commitment,
both of donors and of Government.
Procurement and Disbursements
70.       Given the scattered nature of works, no international contractors
are expected to be interested in civil works. Therefore, all new civil
works to be financed by IDA (US$3.5 million) would be locally procured.
IDA would review the bidding documents and bid award procedures, the bid
evaluation, and proposed contracts prior to contract award if such
contracts are valued at over US$100,000 equivalent. Architectural designs,
preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works, for a total
estimated cost of US$0.4 million, are being undertaken by an architectural
firm acceptable to IDA. Contracts for the purchase of vehicles and
tractors would be procured following local competitive bidding under
procedures which, if such contracts exceed US$50,000 equivalent, would be
reviewed by IDA.
71.       Because of the nature of research, purchase of specialized
equipment and renewals (US$0.3 million) from only one manufacturer would be
allowed. All other equipment (US$0.7 million) would be procured based on
price quotations from at least three local or foreign suppliers. For
research supplies (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, animal feed, hand tools,
etc.), vehicle operating costs (gas, spare parts and external repair
bills), and infrastructure and equipment maintenance (spare parts, con-



- 19 -
struction materials and external invoices), for a total estimated cost of
US$2.8 million, direct purchases from only one supplier would be allowed.
Whenever possible, however, purchases would be grouped and procured based
on price quotations from at least three local or foreign suppliers.
Purchases under this category exceeding US$50,000 would require local com-
petitive bidding and prior IDA approval of bidding documents and draft
contracts. Grouped purchases, estimated to cost more than US$100,000,
would be procured through international competitive bidding following IDA
guidelines.
72.       Two expatriate staff (8 man-years) have been recruited through
ISNAR and two more (4.3 man-years) would be recruited through ILCA.
Visiting scientists (7 man-years) and two expatriate staff (3.7 man-years)
would be internationally recruited following procedures acceptable to IDA.
The master plan preparation would take 3 man-years of expatriate staff.
Auditors acceptable to IDA have been recruited.
73.       Disbursements.  No expenditures for vehicles, equipment or ope-
rating outlays relating to any year will be eligible for financing under
the IDA credit until the program and budget for that year have been
reviewed by all agencies interested in financing agricultural research in
Rwanda and approved by IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04 and
Schedule 1, para. 5(b)). To facilitate disbursements on expenditures for
numerous small amounts and to reduce the number of withdrawal applications
processed, IDA would advancr to ISAR a sum of US$800,000, corresponding to
approximately three months expenditures over the first two years of the
Project (construction period), increased by 20 percent, to establish a
revolving fund, which would be periodically replenished through grouped
claims for reinbursement of not less than US$20,000. This account would be
used to pay: (i) expenditures in foreign currency and possibly salaries of
expatriate staff; and (ii) local expenditures for civil works, vehicles,
equipment and operating costs. Transactions for all expenditures will be
effected using the exchange rate of the day (Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 3).
74.       ISAR would claim reimbursement on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for:  (i) civil works and consulting services contracts
under US$50,000; and (ii) vehicles, equipment, goods, services and
operating costs under US$15,000. Withdrawals for local expenses above
these limits and for expenditures in foreign currency in excess of US$5,000
would be fully documented.
75.       The Agronomic Faculty and Geographic Department of the University
of Rwanda (UNR) would submit annually their proposed research programs and
corresponding budgets to IDA for approval; and ISAR would make payments to
the University of Rwanda only for approved budget items and properly
incurred expenses (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). ISAR's
accounts and the project revolving fund would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and the report of the auditors would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the ISAR fiscal year. The
report of the auditors would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA may
reasonably request, including a statement as to whether or not IDA funds



- 20 -
had been used for their intended purpose and a certification that all
expenditures claimed under SOEs during the year have been properly incurred
for the project as designed (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01
(c)).
Benefits and Risks
76.       Benefits.  The principal project benefit would be the-strength-
ening of Rwanda's national agricultural research system, which in turn
should make important contributions towards improving the quantity, quality
and productivity of both food and cash crops. The main benefits of the
Project would result from the clarification of research strategies and
programs, the institutional strengthening of ISAR, better coordination of
externally financed programs, and strengthened links between research and
extension.
77.       No attempt has been made to estimate ex ante an economic rate of
return for the Project because there are too many uncertainties. The
outcome from research activities and the value of unknown results would be
highly subjective and speculative. Purthermore, the time lag between
investment and research findings, as well as between the findings and their
adoption, are difficult to estimate.   Ex post calculations of rates of
return on successful agricultural research have nonetheless been found to
be high in all studies completed to date. The attainment of high econemic
rates of return depends upon the focus of the research, the careful
monitoring and evaluation of research activities and reasonable control of
operating and maintenance costs.
78.       Risks.  A number of factors could impair the Project's success.
Poorly qu:lified staff and delays in staff upgrading and/or recruitment
could slow down Project execution. Furthermore, stronger linkages between
research, extension and agricultural development activities may not com-
pletely develop, delaying thereby efficient diffusion of newly generated
technology at the farm level.
79.       There are risks that are specifically addressed under the
Project, but which nevertheless may delay new technology generation. These
include the possibilities that:  (i) government financing may not be
available to execute all the research programs as conceived; (ii) given the
multiplicity of co-financiers, research interests may not coincide, causing
programs to be executed in fragments; and (iii) ISAR may be slower than
expected in shifting research emphasis from the present disciplirary
research towards problem-oriented research using multidisciplinary teams.
The most significant general risk is that problems may encumber the
reorientation of research, and hence delay possible results.
80.       However, the Government is fully committed to the Project, and a
general consensus exists with ISAR on the proposed research programs.
Moreover, a number of measures have been proposed in the Project to ensure
that the probability of any of the specific risks becoming real is reduced



- 21 -
to the minimum. The systems teams are to be kept as small as possible,
with a coordinator responsible for ensuring that research is focussed on
the resolution of pressing problems. The reorganization of the project
executing agency, ISAR, would ensure that all agricultural research is
organized from a systems perspective which emphasizes on-farm research.
There will be a Research Programming and Evaluation Unit responsible for
overall planning and evaluation of research. The multidisciplinary teams
would focus research on understanding how all significant factors relate
and interrelate within the production process, and they would set prio-
ritles as a team, thereby avoiding individual biases. The linkage of
research to extension through on-farm experimentation by extension workers
should also have a high chance for success, and would give both scientists
and extension workers a unique insight Into the farmers' prac;:cal pro-
blems. Annual review processes, established for the Project and the aid
coordination procedures (para. 45), should ensure that research is problem-
oriented and congruent with the Government's agricultural development
plans.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Rwandese
Republic and the Association, and Lhe Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Artlele V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit..
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 22, 1985



22-                                                 ANNEX  I
-  22                                              Page  1 of  5
T A I tt f 
ILANICA                - SOCIAL INICATORF DATA SHE!T
SHANk                                REruFNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTD AWAGS) 4ft
lDST                tNDST AEEV ETIMATE) lb
aRcES?     LOW iNCOME AFRICA         NICOLE ruCmLt
1n60.      19b?itk   KST1MTAs-11     57 OF LANRA          AFRICA S. or SAHARA
&a (nousa SQ. -,
TOTAL                                26.3         21.3        21.3
ACICUrLTURlAL                        15.0         15.2        14.4
CW  hU CAPITA (0563                     70.0        300.0       2b0.0           249.                     1111.9
(KILOCRAMS at OIL EQUIVALENT)        10.0         11.0        17.0            62.8                     s2n.0
nerAIO AM nIuL nTAincs
POPULATION.NI0-YZAR (TMSAD)        2050.0       3695.0      5330.0
;W POPU-ATION g(1 OF TOTAL)           2.4          3.2         4.b             19.2                     29.7
POPULATION PROJECTI
PoruT    IhN EARlt 2000 (MiLL)                              10.6                ,
STATIONARY POPUIATION (MILL)                                47.4
POPULATIOIN NOEI                                             1.9
POPUlJ6z0N OLESITY
PEr SQ. 34.                       106.5        140.3       203.0            32.5                      51.8
PER SQ. CI. AGRI. LAWD            191.2        242.9      371.0            119.2                    111.1
POPLt.T1ON AGE STS1UCTURE (t3
0-1U uIS                          U.3          41.7        45.9            45.6                      45.4
15-64 IRS                          53.0         51.6        51.4            51.5                     51.7
65 AMSM ABWE                        2.7          2.7         2.7             2.9                       2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.6         3.6             2.5                       2.8
tIl4At;                             5.4          5.4         6.4             4.2                       5.2
CatMD  lutmH RATE (PER THOUS)        53.1         53.8        53.6            48.6                     47.0
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUS)         27.1        22.3         19.7            17.7                     11.2
CROSS REPRODLtCTIOK RATE              3.b         3.5          3.4             3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOtS)            ..           ..
*USERS Ct OF HRIED WMEN)             ..           ..
-  aII NaTomuO
1190 OF FOOD POD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        B1.0       102.0       105.0             81.8                     91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES ct or REQU!RE'ENTS)       83.0         93.0        Ba.0            86.4                     93.2
PROTEINS CGRAIS PER JAl)           51.0        59.0        52.0             49.9                     56.7
oF WHiCH AIMAL AND PULSE        2b.0         33.0       29.0 IC          18.3                     -17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-A) DEATH RATE          L0.0        32.0        25.0             23.8                    I.7
WALTS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BiRTH (YEAIS)        39.5        42.5        40.1             48.6                     51.7
IFASAT MOT7. RATE (PER THOUS)       167.0       150.0       126.0            117.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATES (EPOP)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       37.0 Id          21.8                     35.6
URIIAS                               ..          ..        *41.0 /d         61.5                     54.1
RUtAL                                .      .     .        37.0 7;j         14.2                     27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
C2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         53.0       57.0 le          32.0
URUI                                 ..        83.0        87.0 e           69.2
RLIRAL                               ..        52.0        56.07;           24.3                       ..                             4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         143l90C0 /I  19600.0    31510.0           27477.8                  11918.3
POP. nER St51SG PElRS0%           11610.0 7i-   8820.0     9840.0           3396.2                   2248.9
POP. PER NOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..       790.0       660.0           1039.0                    936.9
URBAN                                ..        50.0        50.0 /c         395.2                    3b8.7
RURAL                                        3100.0      1600.0 71        3094.0                   4012.1
AUaSSIORS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        21.2
AVERAGE SIZE or HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..
AvURAS NO. or PERSONS/ROOm
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RUIAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF VELLISCS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
0t3AN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TARLE u                                            jePag  2 of 5
waim                  - SOCz     -ICATRS   u }  :
RFERECE ROU   (EWED A              IS   J
r  Ds? r EW   ESTRATE) lb
alat 197b  RS         LUNCI AFRIC             niLE    E
ES-acuIa s1c9n or sumF              AICA S. or SAU
AIUSIED EUROLIJENr RAnTS
PRIN :  7tOAL                    49.0         740         M.0            69.2                     91.0
WALE                   06.0         63.0       75.0            76.I                     90.5
FEMALE                 30.0         65.0       69-0            57.6                     73.6
l-   ET: OTuAL                    2.0          2.0        :.0            13.1                     17.4
MAe                    2L0           3.0       3'0             17.6                     23_7
FEIALE                  1.0          1_0        1.0             6.3                     14.8
tOCAXIOFAL ( OF SECOIA5            39.0         L2.Z       25A              7.2                      5_3
UIL-7EAC1R. RAIO
Psnfj3                            39.0        60.0       57.0            40.1                     31.6
SEcg rM                         14.0         13.0       1.0             25.9                     24.3
EUQ LITERAcY  n   (2-)             16.4 If     23.0       49.7            44.3                     35.6
PAS    I CARS/TIUS  DPOP            0-4          0.9        1.5 IJ          3.6                     20.7
RADIO RCEERSlTNoDa1 POP              ._1                   36.7            41.9                    100-O
TV R       /         N?              ..           ..                        2.0                     11.5
kSPAmR CDII?E GRAL
INIERES-) CUROILTIM
PEt THOUSAD PULATI.                             .        0.06 /c          5.4                     17.2
CIm  AInaL AXTEKDAMCE/CAiIh           ..          ..       14.6 7           1.4                      0.3
TOTAL A     ORItCE OE S)          1618.0      207.       2863.0
FUSAIE (PERCENT)                 49.1         48.6       48.2            36.5                     33.81
A*ICEL.URE   RCEWT)               95.0        93.0       91.0            77.4                     57.1
-D        (PECE9r)                 1.0         2.0        2.0            9*6                      17.a
--RTIC0PAITOS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             566         54.3       52.1            41.0                     36.3
WALE                              58.9        56.9       55.2            52.1                     47.6
FIAEE                             54.4        5L9        49.2            30.2                     25.1
EXoMlC DEPERDENCY RAIO              0.8          0.9        0.9             1.Z                     1.4
MION    srzoin
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ISC3I
RECEIVED IN
3iEST 5 OF HOUSE__ -S                                                      --                       -
RIST 2CC OF HOUSEIIOLDS           __
LOUEST ZZ OF HO,S                               ,_,_,..
LWESS 4*a OF foISaLOS              _,
~rRE     D        S -
ESTIMATED ArSoLT FOVERT imCUE
LEVEL W05$ PER CAPITA)
aS "                                            ,       148.0 Jc        166.3                    525.3
RURAL                                                     5.0 Fe         90.6                    Z49-0
ESTIAMATE  RELATIE POVERTY ICM
LEVEL (US$ PEi CAPITA)
RM                                  _            _                      107.7                    &7'74
RIRAL                              __            _       6 3.0 IC        65.0                    186.0
A               ESTIATED POP  OM  ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LE¢. (')
URBAN                                            _       30.0 Ic         34.7
RURAL                               .            .90 *                   65.4
HOT AVAIAE
NOT APPLICABLE
N0 T E S
la  Th grasp average$ for each indicator are  'opu1atlio-wegbced arirtbcic aeas. Caverage of coxntries ag the
lidicators depends on aval ability of data and La not muLfom.
lb  Unless ot erwtse osted. -Data for 1960 refer to any yer betwen 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970 betuen 1969 and
1971: and dara for -mout Recent Eat1autea between 1960 and 1912_
Ic   vn77; Id 1976; 1c 3975  if 1962: LL 1973
JUIE. 1984



-24 -                                                                                                      AUNEK I
~  ±  4   -   4-  4. 0.4.~l~ ....!.   4                          -   -t .           ,0.fl.l  10 4.1144 14 .101  431. 1   -0343040-                                            44
41143    0i   4-r    -44  '14..40                .3314                                     "v-34..4      weOl    14  M0.04               04 ~ ¶. 430-                .    e       a.     .1 o 4
.cn. .o.. 44    44iF.  3443.0. .10. ~.4 ..1.44.444. t4t404 1.340  43-434.10.                 14
444..   4..  -   hin.  .ee.   n.a  - .. .~.   .....    £14.  .w            44          i   1430         44      1.10 -    -             447440b  1
.44't  -.-e.    ..-.on4.4'SIn   3.0  h.:  *.....    4  ~,.'44o&.  ...    ~ou  .41..   044 4.  St   3   oOi..        0. i   .0         ' .43.1310
.411413...   4  t. -r...0  .-..    .c.4%.  ...   .. .o.tn..   .4a.   1..  a     C   .-%,10-tad                          .I-o.-1  -                        -a    R ..
.44    4~1l41.44344400  .0314..,   5.4441.iSo.  n     -    ..L   .34.5  3   4004.5   '.  4440~                 I-    4         --   14               143-   10 7  ad 
~~'............  .,*...i  ~~~                                                                          - 444.434411.   ne~~~~d44         a        It    00
.3-.c:444    i---                                      44   . 24104.3.**.431    .1    .                                                            4444013130    4*I74.4
.44   4..                                                                          444.4.4             343        ....  -4.1114.  48.0   r    ~ '  1   4S4414
- 4 . -. .44.   0.4  44.3  =44-toI. 41   ..e..tit                   1  .0   .14  0.04  44.... .3440   .0404  .0..i4 t1 0*S  a
* *    ..    ,.i ..~  4..-4 4.4-...0.*           4-     .3  .4    -' 1*-30
34    .4.   -..4O                                                                                                 111 -- 1Ill.                     11o..       7011101 .
-y t,.r01-..  4   - .4.-..;  ....i   -         i        -c .. dt                                  43.    443    .. 1                 4                   dn144 .. 41t.x    tI ny*    n
41..se  .7 I-    i3t.                              .im -                                 -L4....1.                    0. .4. E144.   4) L==.44  4440 4
UZI43   .4                                                                                                 i.oi      -.4.I-ILl          . -  Noe               .t         aol 4'I484l,
41..rt.o - elsa. 1Nr4.t4 ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ rrmd~ft '
itn.n             l 4.4 31    ---W003.     C ..    .0..3I,ad                                                            011   ale  101"4.   4 ,4.44.3w   i r  44IV - Ma                      -     M.1414i
C0U.0 .10        t.-'.4144 -4r 01444 0.104to.   0f                                                                                                         410f   444.1    4           d4444  0N   ..1IJ
4.ft.l         .a?             -£vnh.b..                     t     3.      .           a 30- p f                                    -     -       .    IV lma    -     0.41 03..44         a ni a     - d.
3444. -      .1nn.   S-L&0 ? en  .o.14.o                               i.   -41                                                                                                                             --. ..
Ti   i4-4*   4  4ttit -03.'                                      l.  io.3                                     .4.1.4. .-adr3.4.  1033.   4o.o1                            .        to    m  "aa.
1."    40  1.43.  1. -.1-1 ,.:.                 ".L - -    .      3.3a    rod   £10*I                                                                  -         -oLI.L                        .
4L..i.. W             e        44.1_ 1  9       -         .084          14i         .1   4 IL4-44C4.- q                                                                          -L      .-     - .190             ;
440!..~g.4.414403      IIS   I  .4104-                 : ..e 0         .tIe444    40    -- 14, -f1t -W    41 034 - C                                                   ..4101        i*.       ee,44
i.V  a    41410444105  144  4444.441.              440141   441111Mo4. hI4.~    4.'*t4                                                     40304am       .        0    ..a    1  0~ 1f
..3.      -gt 141 41       41 L3.41         0443040     34441    V-4                                           .ao.  *n1I'        o     04044       ..   1011.  t. .    0i3144   30i4 a-sI
'..0a.4444   4443  1..0i..~1.."'LC 0-    -LdIL 1r4    -                 0     04 010434.  4440..4                                                     .as 403.4                   11
2'4i* .~   4.  4     :i.       3.414t  444  4 a0141    1431.                                              1.11.           41444         4. 10               -        4     .107isSadlat 
-R  11.14  .43..1444-4                 345  4.   .   ..4.       9* t4.P  W   no       ..                           3 31w  L...  0-11 .                 ...l~ . -44 w .r. s43              1 4
.LC.                              p...W*                                                                              4 444          044r, 30. 144.  44.34  4                          4=  -4.3   l
I--  t.      d4.-   21t-...4        It"3.r=  UAL   1.4"4.    LWO  -14,   '3.40 ...4.4-                                                    C .4.oi.    . .. -M .v -
1.- 14.t- l L)4.**?40                                I        M  
W441   ad. ,.444 M i Z s.0 10                       4.444                 4.00440    ...44                                              1 .                            4144 4              4.        0
04.:  40.34.  d   01   4.                                                                        .44434   44                     Cl   4-4;.434l4 4.0                            44..
443.34   4.0    43.4.4            444--4 .4030.04.0t41   .-.341...X3.
-  ..43  44i1433        343     d   44.4.0.1  1 4.4   43  4 0.4.4S343a       al4,0w.100.444S
04443   440  .434..1        43-                    1o   a.IL.  4da .4 .4 t                                       30       0 -.441    .1.04                     0      i    0444 
00.0.044   *4330   340.               0 314.4304                                                                               . l        .1.101''-4                          ..        0      a        e
31d  441   0       4..e 1.            3'4    444~00414                        .114                                3011.0314040-.4 0 3                                                      4i0 .3.
pa    41d     114 b10   144.   130441                                                                                    014441110 *tIlt.
.IILLL-    1.."I.        4000             11.040? ~                      0i            e                           4144.4    .? 3                     i3 1..¶                .41          4    4014



25 
AM=E I
COUIITRY DATA M-RWANDA                  pg        4    5
AREA                             POPU.-ATION                   DEN'SM  (1982)
26.3 thousand sq. km.            5.5 million (mid-1982)         210 per sq. I=.
Rate of Growth:               393 per sq. km. of
3.6? (from 1978 to 1982)          arable .-a'd
POPULATION C'1A3A=-ERISTICS (1978)               EEALTR (1977)
Cr'ide Birth Rate (per 1.000)         54.0       Population per physician      31.510
crude Death Rate (per 1.000)          21.0       Population per hospital bed      650
INCOME DISTRIBuTioN                              ENERGY CONSMTO  PER CAPITA
: of national Income. highest quintile .,        (Kilograms of coal equivalent) 28.0
lovest quinttile
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (1976)                      ACCESS TO ELECrRICITY
; of population - total               35.0       2 of population - total          2.0
- rural
NUT.ITION (1977)                                 EDUCATION (1980)
Calorie intake as % of requirements  94.2       Adult literace rate 2            49.7
Per capita protein Intake             57.0      Primary school enrollment S    70.0
(gra=s/day)
GBI PER CAPITA IN 19821/: USS238!2
GROSS DOMSTIC PRODUCT is 1981/                             MASUAL RATE OF CROWTK
(2, constant 1976 pr-ces)4
uss mn1.       2                    1977-81
CDP at Market Prices          1,257.8      100.0                    5.B
Gross Domestic Investment       282.4       22.5                    8.0
Gross National Saving           109.8        8.7
Curren: Account Balance       -172.6       -13.7
Export of Goods, BFS            150.9       12.0                   -3.9
Import of Goods, XFS           332.0        26.4                    5.0
GOVERNMEN1 MANCE
Central Government
RwF Mln.               2 of GDP
r                                            19827           L9822/           1977
Current Receipts                16,150           11.9             11.5
Current Expenditure             15,120           11.1             8.6
Current Surplus                  1,030            D.8              2.9
;           Capital Expenditures             3,554             2.2             1.4
Overall Surplus5'              -3,024            -2.2              1.2
11  The Per Capita GSP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the
World Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the
average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
zI Preliminary data.
3.' Data are not available for GDP components.
41 Trend rates based on least square estimates.
51 The overall surplus is not equal to the difference between current savings and
development expenditures because the co-isolidated surplus or deficit of the
Treasury special accounts is not shown in this table.
. ot availablc.
not applicable.



-26 -
ANY U I
CO-TRY DATA - WANDA                         Page 5 oc 5
M05fl*, CRED;, AX~D PRICES                      1978       1979      1980       1981      195: 2
(Million RwF outstanding end perioc)
lIonev- SUPp1y'                                11.20'    14,122    14,270    16,06C    1.,460
BanK Credut to Government (net)                    23     1,473    -3,5Z9    -2,778         150
Bank Credit to Private  Sc(tor                  5,134     4.564      6,480     8,1a7-    9.765
(Percentage or Index Nuzbers)
Monev as % of GD?                                13.8      14.6       13.4       13.8      13.Q
Consumer Price Index (jan-Mar 1976 - 100)    131.3        152.1      163.2     173.8      191.2
An=al percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                          12.5       15.8        7.3       6.5       10.0
Bank Credit to GovernMent (net)              -93.7   -6504.3    -159.9        27.4     105.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 17.0      -11.1      42.0       25.7      15.9
B;EALANCE OF PA!MEXNrS                                       MERCEUAYDISE EK0ORTS (AVERAGE 19:8-e-E
1979   1980   1981   1982:'                      tSS M.s
CUSS Xillions)
Experts of Goods, NFS           227    166    151    156       Coffee             78.0       56.
l3par:s of Goods, X1F5        -309   -323   -332   -348        Tea                10.7        8.2
Resource Gap (deficit   -)    -82   -157   -181   -192         Cassiteri:e        16.6       }2.E
Factor Services (Let)           -2       5      12     10      ,orethrum           a . 1
Ne: Transfers                     5     -1     -3       -      CirehrA             1.1        0.5
Ba aace om current Account    -79   -155   -172   -182         Other o22 5                    1.3
Of:ficlal Grants                128    106    106      97        Total           135.,     1.0.0
Direct Private For. Invest.    13       17      19     19
Net %..;T Loans                  40     33     25      30    EXr;ELNAL DEBT, DECEMER 31, 1982
other M and L.T (net)          -22      -2      2       -                                 USS miri.
Ner Short-Tem Ca;ital          -10      22     20      -3    Public Debt. incl.guaranteed 189.3
Capital Flows, NEI                1     -2     -9      -3    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors and O=ssions            -1      -6      6       -    Total fctstaneing F Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (-)       -70    -13      -3    -42
Gross Reserves (end year)       177.6  208.8  199.2  161.6  NET DEBT SERVICE RTITO -FOP 1982-
rerr-oleu- IzportsY             23.0   30.0   42.0   49.0
'erroele.  Exportsl/                      -              .  Publ'c Debt. incl. guaranteed  2.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt:
aAzIE CF EXCH'9LGE                                           Total Outstandin  & Disbursed 
Annual          End
Averages       Period           IDA LENDING. (Sep.30,1984)(US$Mln.)
197..-e-d Au*-1983  Oct. 1983                           -            U.
USS 1.00 = RvF                92. 4          97.0            Outstanding & Disbarsed    125.56
RwF 1.00 - USS                 0.011          0.010          Undisbursed                  89.51
RwF 1.00 - SDB                   ..           0.010          Outstanding includIng
SDR 1.00 - RvF                              102.71             Undisbursed               215.07
1!  includes Money and Quasi Money
' Provistonal
c Crude and Derivatives.
&i Debt Service net of interest earned on foreign exchange reserves
as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



A II
-27-                              P2 1 of 2
ME SAl  OF UA1N  1J  GEAn= IN 111 
A. Statet of ML Credits
(As of Septeuber 30, 184)
AMUO llS vill1S
C  dLt Nb.         FISCal Year       ftruNPr                 irpose               (lw cancelations)
(Mencaedis bwe baee fully dswsed)l/                                             77.60
937.j 2/ 3/        1979             Thda.a          !ktara Agriultural &
-Liestock 1lie1    t       8.75        3.27
1039-1              1980                              1tegrated Fbrstry &
I;Lestdc k    qe¢iumit    21.00        7.50
1057-1              1981                -                 o1   _                 7.9D        6.58
1126-11             1981                           9BlFodcr.                     15.00       7.63
1217-W              1982                             TachZical Assistace         5.00        4.14
1250-9W             1982                -            Fifth Hl =y                25.90       17.19
1263-11*            198Z               -                 d  Fdsrti               10.00       8.66
1283-1              1982               -             Phas II Bugsera/
16.3D       9.87
L314-W              1983                -) ITI                                   7.0D        5.64
345-W               1983                -3ter 94ly                                3.OD      10.03
1495-11 4/          L984               -              Po                         9.00        9.00
Total                     216.05 51   89.51
of wtich bas bem repadd          0.98
Tbtal xm outstanding        215.07
hmxmt sold            3.37
of ubdch bas been repaid  3.37
Total im beld by  D         215.07
Ibtal uzdishursed                        89.51
11 RTh.da bas zei1ed n Bmic lan.
t      IDIL creLt as c         by m E   Special ctimA Credit of US$1.7 million
T, ]lig a MIM  G:mt            1iratiDn of 4.4 nuilI_
4/ NDt yet effective.
D o°es not incli   US$15.0 uWiml beofitting Thina and provided um   te regtal Uizz I1
-Peol Hy        ectric Project siged April 4, 1984.



28
Pap 2   2
B. StatCmt of 3F         t      In Ruia
(as of Septuier 30, L984i)
IR ?s exIstfsg      i         In Thnda a  prise t1e two        peVious1y =a- in
SwiatMF and its prdcm&m rm    mes  SIR! and KEE. DetafLz am as follow..
1$ '000
TInestmot   Ficl                 Type of                              Wdby
Su r    year    rm                                  bl T1a                    ___ ID
337-W         1975      SIr/  )'ab s    -              535    535       294         -
in    ) ixi
470-w         1979        )um)                 60 a/  226    286        151
/D In                           60      761    821        445
a/   DwlediuX 7/84.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
RWANDA
Agricultural Research Project
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:              September 1981
(b)  Project Preparation:         February 1983
(c)  Appraisal Mission:           April 1984
(d)  Negotiations:                December 13-19, 1984
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Fffectiveness:      June 30, 1985.
Section II:   Special Project Implementation Action
Government would invite annually all bilateral and
international agencies interested in the financing of
agricultural research in Rwanda to review research concepts,
staffing and financial support for ISAR (para. 45).
Section III:  Special Conditions
Conditions of disbursement are that:
Ci) no withdrawals would be made from the IDA credit for civil
works in Karama or Songa until (a) ISAR has entered into a
formal agreement with the International Livestock Center for
Africa (ILCA) for support to and regular review of ISAR's
livestock research programs, and for providing technical
assistance and training of ISAR's livestock research staff,
and (b) IDA has received an independent advice by an ILCA
expert on the usefulness of extending ISAR's cattle breeding
or                      program (para. 48); and
(ii) no withdrawals would be made from the IDA credit for
*                       replenishment of the revolving fund for expenditures for
vehicles, equipment and operating costs until all agencies
financing agricultural research In Rwanda have reviewed, and
IDA has approved, ISAR's annual operating budget, research
programs, financing plans, proposed investments by
procurement procedure, training schedule, research program
staffing and external research program review schedule
(para. 45).



- 30 -
ANNEX II1
Page 2 of 2
Section TV:   Condition of Effectiveness
ISAR would enter into formal arrangement with the
International Council for Research in Agro-forestry
(ICRAF) for support to ISAR's agro-forestry research
programs and provision of technical assistance and
trainirg of ISAR's agro-forestry research staff (para.
49).



-'                                       RWANDA
First Agncuftural Research Project
Premier Projet de Recherche Agricole
*      ISAR Resewch Sbtbrns (10)
Centre de Redwde  ISAR  (10)
' T - ] Bugeserm Gisaka Migongo Rurml Services Project -Phase II
'- * ---' Bugesere Giseka Afigongo. Projel de Services de Diveloppoment Rural-Phase nI
Lake Kivu Coffse ard Food Crop Imrwmnt Propect
Projet d'AmidAoralion de W CAaculeiro et des Cutre VWras des & Rdgion du Lac ivu                                         7A
_         CChinchona Project
Prqer de Ouquuin
-, Z:   Muta Agriculbura and LiUveock Deveopent Project-Pha  11 
_-'-_-  Pro jo de DVe 1oinent Agro-p_ser du Mvuit -Phase n
IFs l Gih.wabForst Reserve
L.J t     REsere Forestiltre do Gishwati
r InegrAted Fory  and Lvestock Development Pmiect (Gishwati Sub-Project)
Projet do D6vloppement SShopostoral(SousPro  de Gi)hwati)
- - -    Birunga Maize Project
P -   Pro  Biruna lUasia                                                                          -
au.., ,,   :Region Boundaries
Limts des Rigions Agricolbs                                                             1     -
Roads                                                                                    !      '
Rouits                                                                                     '                -'
Rivi&res                                                                                        /
Towns /
National Capital                                                                                I
Capita Nation                                                                                                K LAE  'KIvU
lntwnational Boundaries                                                                        I
Frontieros InternatbonsI .
Isohyeftsin mm
1200-  lsohyetos en mm
2- r      Agricultral Regions
Regions Agrico.es                                                                         /
!        1   I~~~mbo                                                                                // .                          f
2  mp                                                                                                /
I            ~~~tn4Sipu/-/   /                                                                                     /     tX
Lake eKvu Region
3   Bordures Lac Givu
Lava Soil                                                                                   T
1        ~~~4 Tores de lave                                                                                 !_              -.-/.  D
Zaire-Nile Divide Highlands
5    Zone dIlHute Altde du Crte; Zaire-Nile
Buberuka Highlands
6    ZDae dHautie d Bubo                                                    I Su    ruAs  !7)
Central Plateau
7    Pltau Control
8    Gmnibc Dor,-
Dorsal Granitique~~~abss                                      ~      anug
.            ~~~~9 M~ayg.?u                                                                                 u        ;           1~
Eat Plateu                                                            ',
Plstaaude fEst
E" EtSavannahs st,\\ 
12 Svanes deEst                                          ZAIRE                                             \ 
o       io      20       30       40      50                                   $          9 's @             
KILOMETERS_tKe    '  ____- _______
MILESig 
o            10            20            30
BURUI



IBRD 18308
Mbam,a I Kmnpwk
(               UGANDA                        ,.-.*
730(                   r      X          8        0             -      '       _        '
\9 2 j/ g : z\ ~~~~~TANZANIA|
ZAIRE                                                          f
I..~~~~~~~~~~~G
na                                            3r          11316.-ETHIOa1PIAM
,SUDAN                   EIP
V~~~~~~~~~~; 5                           000 tgUN                          -|'   
- AND \ l* --
15                m                                    B  t_,_    __URUNDIk  S
q6UNDI                                                                  - :         TANZANIA
| \& 3t 3 - UG~~30                                                                                 196



