CREDIT NUMBER 1546 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1546 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       'A   -  q-  P 1985,
between the RWANDESE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 18, 1983 and
June 24, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)  "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Livestock and Forestry;
(c)  "ISAR" means the Agricultural Research Institute of
Rwanda; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit


﻿2-
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to eloven million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SOR 11,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount oi the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause ISAR to maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in the
National Bank of Rwanda on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the CredLt
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-3-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15, and August 15 commencing February 15, 1995, and ending
August 15, 2034, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on August 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate,
economic, financial, administrative, technical and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ an agricultural
economist for Part A thereof and shall cause ISAR to employ other
consultants and experts, all of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, such economist and consultants and experts to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall
cause ISAR to employ the following key staff: a Managing Direc-
tor, who will also act as Project Manager; a Programming and
Evaluation Advisor; five department heads, for the Crops Produc-
tion, Environmental Studies and Production Systems, Animal
Production, Forestry and Agro-forestry Departments, and Financial
and Administrative Affairs Service; a Biometrician; three senior
scientists in the Environmental Studies and Production Systems
Department, namely, a farming systems agronomist, an agricultural
economist and a rural sociologist; a senior animal production
systems specialist in the Animal Production Department; a docu-
mentalist; and an engineer who will supervise the engineering and
construction contracts. The Borrower shall ensure that ISAR
employ its research staff for periods which are appropriate to
the demands of the research programs in question.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Faculty of
Agronomy and the Department of Geography of the Faculty of Arts
of the National University of Rwanda to prepare in consultation
with ISAR their proposed research programs and related budgets
for the coming year and shall ensure that ISAR furnish such
programs and budgets to the Association and make payments to the
University only for expenses for Part G of the Project properly
incurred pursuant to approved budgets.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall invite and encourage
all bilateral and international agencies interested in the
financing of agricultural research in Rwanda to cooperate in
respect of the development of agricultural research in Rwanda.
(b) Promptly following the signature of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause the Minister responsible for agricul-
ture, livestock and forestry to furnish to such agencies for
comment the proposed research programs, and corresponding work


﻿-5-
programs, budget, financing plan, staffing and training program
and program review schedule of ISAR for 1985.
(c) Beginning in 1985, the Borrower shall cause ISAR to
furnish for comment by September 30 of each year to each of such
agencies, including the Association, the documents referred to in
paragraph (b) above.
(d) The Borrower shall cause ISAR to accompany the docu-
ments referred to in this Section with detailed schedules of
reviews by independent experts of its proposed and completed
research programs and proposed lists of visiting scientists to be
employed both for such reviews and in research; in the case of
research projects lasting more than five years, a mid-term review
will also be carried out.
(e) The Borrower shall cause ISAR to carry out before
June 30, 1986 an analysis of research on farming systems to
assess the first results of on-going research programs in such
field in Rwanda.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause ISAR to introduce by
June 30, 1985, a system for reporting quarterly on the progress
of the Project and annually on technical activities.
Section 3.06. In connection with the preparation of the
Master Plan for agricultural research included in Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause the Ministry to furnish to the
Association for its approval:
(a) at least two months prior to the start of each year
beginning in respect of 1986, a detailed work program and pro-
posed budget for the preparation of such Plan in such year; for
1985, such documents will be turnished by September 1, 1985;
(b) beginning not later than December 3t, 1985, semi-
annual progress reports for such Plan together with, beginning
July 1, 1986, reports on the preparation of a second agricul-
tural research project;
(c)  by September 1, 1985, a first outline of such Plan, as
well as a schedule and detailed terms of reference for additional
studies;


﻿-6-
(d) by June 1, 1986, a draft of such Plan, including
detailed proposals for a national seeds-control and certification
system, a national informational system for the dissemination of
research results and extension themes and a long-term program
for the recruitment, career development and training of research
personnel, all as furnished to the agencies described in Sec-
tion 3.04 (a) above;
(e) by September 1, 1986, the final Master Plan, together
with detailed proposals and terms of reference for the prepara-
tion of a future agricultural research project; and
(f) by June 1, 1987, a detailed description and analysis of
such future project sufficient to serve as a basis for its
appraisal.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  cause  all  goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the ?lans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain and shall cause ISAR
to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and moni-
tor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause ISAR to furnish to the Association at regular


﻿-7-
intervals all such information as the Association shill reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower or ISAR of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish or
cause ISAR to prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained  records  adequate   to  reflect  in  accordance  with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of ISAR and of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause ISAR to maintain separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain or cause ISAR to retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall or shall cause ISAR to: (i) have the
Special Account and the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, certified copies of
the reports of such audits by such auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audits thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause ISAR:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance  with   sound  administrative,   financial,  economic,
technical and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the


﻿- 9-
General Condition, namely, that ISAR has entered into formal
arrangements with the International Council for Research in
Agro-forestry under which the latter will provide expert advice
on the orientation and design of research in agro-forestry and
training of Rwandan scientists.
Section 5.02. The Cate                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of S ction 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et
de 1'Economie
Botte Postale 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIFIN ECO                      04 or 021 PUB KGL
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650  (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              3,050,000         90%
(2)  Vehicles and             1,420,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                  expenditures and
90% of local
expendituies
(3) Consultants,              2,340,000         100%
experts, archi-
tects and
auditors
(4) Training; carto-            710,000         100%
graphy travel
allowances, Part G
of the Project
(5) Research supplies:        1,630,000         100% of foreign
seeds, fertilizers,                        expenditures
pesticides; fuel,                          and 90% of local
lubricants, spare                          expenditures
parts and outside
repairs for vehi-
icles; plant and
equipment main-
tenance (outside
bills for mate-
rials and parts)
(6) Special Account              810,000        Amounts to be
deposited
pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a)
of Schedule 3


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Refunding of                 310,000        Amount due under
Project Pre-                               Section 2.02 (b)
paration Advance
(8) Unallocated                1,430,000
TOTAL                11,700,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (7)
above is in excess of the amount due, the excess will be reallo-
cated to Category (8).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 13 -
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) expenditures under Categories (2) or (5) above except
and to the extent that such expenditures are included among items
approved by the Association following their consideration by the
agencies described in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(c) expenditures for civil works in Karama or Songa until
the Association has received an independent opinion by an expert
from the International Livestock Center for Africa on the useful-
ness of extending ISAR's cattle breeding program and ISAR has
entered into formal arrangements with the International Livestock
Center for Africa under which the later will support ISAR's pro-
grams of livestock research, provide technical assistance and
training of research staff and recruit for ISAR an animal produc-
tion systems expert and an animal nutritionist.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's
agricultural research activities and to make them more responsive
and applicable to the constraints of the producer. The Project
constitutes the first phase of a long-term support program to
enhance the national agricultural research capability of Rwanda.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Master Plan for Agricultural Research
The preparation by the Directorate of Studies and Planning
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry, thereby
assisted by ISAR, of a long-term (15 to 20 years) Master Plan
for agricultural research in Rwanda, including the definition of
an agricultural research strategy and of priority objectives,
proposals for a better linkage between research and extension
services, the definition of coordination mechanisms with agricul-
tural research in other countries of the region, proposals for an
adaptation of ISAR's organization to the priority objectives, the
development of a long-term research manpower development plan
and a seeds control and certification system, aiming at the pre-
paration of a follow-on agricultural research project; and the
strengthening of the Ministry through the procurement of one
vehicle, office equipment and supplies, furniture, one micro
computer, one word processor and providing a one-year overseas
training fellowship.
Part B:   Research Programs
The continuation or establishment and implementation over a
three-year period of:
(1)  thirteen  multidisciplinary   crop  research  programs,
nationally coordinated for the following commodities:
beans, peas, soybeans and groundnuts, maize, sorghum
and millet, wheat and triticale, sunflower, cassava
and sweet potatoes, potatoes, coffee, tea, banana and
avocado;
(2) three multidisciplinary regional programs regarding
crop and livestock production systems:


﻿- 15 -
(a) at Karama    (Bugesera region) with emphasis on
agricultural and livestock production under low
rainfall conditions;
(b) at Gisovu (Zaire-Nile divide region) with emphasis
on such production under high altitude conditions;
and
(c) at Rwerere with emphasis on such production under
medium and high altitude conditions;
(3) three research programs in livestock production:
(a) a cattle breeding program at Songa and Karama and
an observation program at Kinigi focussing on
improved milk production;
(b) an animal nutrition research program at Rubona-
Songa and Karama focussing on fodder production
and agricultural by-product utilization; and
(c) a small ruminants research program at Gishwati
focussing on sheep and goat production in the
highlands; and
(4) two research programs in forestry and agro-forestry
research at Ruhande.
Part C:   Institutional Development of ISAR
(1) Strengthening of ISAR's headquarters through:
(a) the establishment of a research programming and
evaluation unit;
(b) the reinforcement of the Financial and Administra-
tive Service;
(c) the reinforcement of the central support services:
documentation and publication, data processing and
statistics, and the central laboratories; and
(d) the establishment, staffing, equipping and opera-
tion of a full-time liaison office at Kigali.


﻿- 16 -
(2) Reorganization of ISAR's research management through:
(a) the staffing, equipping and operation of the Crops
Research Department, including five multidiscipli-
nary research groups on: legumes, cereals, tubers,
coffee and tea, and fruit crops;
(b) the staffing, equipping and operation      of  the
Environmental Studies and Agricultural Production
Systems Department, including:
(i) a central systems analysis unit;
(ii) a central soil fertility management research
group; and
(iii) three regional systems research groups, at
Karama, Gisovu and Rwerere;
(c) the staffing, equipping and operation      of  the
Animal Production Department, including:
(i) a central animal production systems research
unit; and
(ii) three livestock research groups at Rubona-
Songa, Gishwati and Karama; and
(d) the staffing and operation of the Forestry and
Agro-forestry Department.
(3) Training of research workers and senior administrative
staff through the provision of 70 fellowships overseas,
and workshops, seminars and conferences in Rwanda.
(4) Establishing procedures for review of research programs
and annual budgets.
(5) Intensifying exchanges with national and international
agricultural research centers.
Part D:   Infrastructure
(1) Development,   rehabilitating   and  equipping   ISAR's
research stations at Rubona-Songa, Karama, Ruhengeri-
Kinigi and Tamira including:


﻿- 17 -
(a) the rehabilitation of operational buildings and of
housing; and
(b) the construction of new operational buildings and
housing.
(2) Constructing   and  equipping   an  addition  of  about
1,200 m2 to ISAR's headquarters in Rubona, including
offices, laboratories and a documentation and publica-
tions unit.
(3) Constructing and equipping at Kigali of a 120 m2 liai-
son office and about 75 m of overnight facilities.
Part E:   Equipment
Rehabilitating  or  procuring   for  use  in  the  Project,
agricultural equipment, meteorological equipment, laboratory
equipment, vehicles, office equipment and furniture, data pro-
cessing equipment, communication equipment, generators, workshop
equipment, documentation equipment, cartographic equipment and
topographic equipment; equipment to be procured includes six
tractors, 15 cars, 12 trucks, 40 motorcycles, four personal
computers, one word processor and three generators.
Part F:   Cartography
Multicolor printing of the soils map of Rwanda on a 1:50,000
scale; production of a map defining agro-ecological zones and of
a map defining agro-forestry zones of Rwanda.
Part G:   Support to the Faculty of Agronomy and to the Depart-
ment of Geography of the Faculty of Arts of the
National University of Rwanda
Support of the Faculty of Agronomy and of the Department of
Geography of the Faculty of Arts, of the National University of
Rwanda through the purchase and use of agricultural equipment,
laboratory equipment, ten personal computers and research
supplies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (6) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)  the term "authorized allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) and to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the authorized alloca-
tions, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw
on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts of the authorized
allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total
of the authorized allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Credit to replenish the Special Account, the Association shall,
on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Asso-
ciation at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
withdraw from the Credit Account    and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except
as the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the


﻿- 19 -
respective Categories (1) through (5), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request made by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pur-
suant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (5) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
authorized allocation, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from
the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (5) for the Project
sl-all follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further


﻿- 20 -
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association, an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.   Similar and relited items shall be grouped to the extent
practicable into economical packages for the purpose of inviting
bids or quotations.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured following local
competitive bidding procedures as described in paragraph 3.3 of
Part III of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment which, after group-
ing, are estimated to cost less than $100,000, and contracts for
the purchase of vehicles and tractors, shall also be procured
following such local competitive bidding procedures, with due
attention to the availability of spare parts and repair facili-
ties.
3.   Specialized and proprietary equipment for research may be
purchased directly from the suppliers thereof, as provided in
paragraph 3.5 of Part III of the Guidelines.
4.   All contracts for the rehabilitation of physical plant, as
well as contracts for the purchase of seeds, fertilizers, pesti-
cides, animal feed, hand tools and miscellaneous items which,
after grouping, are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000, shall be purchased through shopping procedures as de-
scribed in paragraph 3.4 of Part III of the Guidelines.
C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works     esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more as well as for


﻿- 22 -
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, that where pay-
ments for such contract are to be made out of the proceeds of
the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to para-
graph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 5.
R CRETARY


