                Document of
              The World Bank




                                            Report No: 32787

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (SCL-43890 TF-28924)

                    ON A

                   LOAN

      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                   TO THE

                   BRAZIL

                   FOR A

EMERGENCY FIRE PREVENTION & CONTROL PROJECT




                June 28, 2005

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 1998)

                               Currency Unit =    Real (R$)
                                      R$ 1.15 = US$ 1.00
                                    US$ 0.87 = R$ 1.00
                   Exchange Rate of Completion: R$ 2.69 = US$ 1.00
                                      FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 to   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBMDF     Federal District Military Fire Department
CEDEC     State Civil Defense Committee
COMDEC    Municipal Civil Defense Committee
FUNAI     National Indian Foundation, Ministry of Justice
GOB       Government of Brazil
GTA       Amazon Working Group (NGO)
IBAMA     Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
          Resources
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
INPE      Brazilian National Institute for Space Research
MMA       Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon
MPO       Brazilian Ministry of Planning and Budget
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NEP       National Environmental Project
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PPG7      Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
PREVFOGO  Wildland Fire Protection Project (IBAMA)
PROARCO   Program for the Prevention and Control of Forest Fires in the
          Deforestation Arc of the Amazon
SEPRE     Secretariat for Regional Affairs - MPO
UNDP      United Nations Development Program



                              Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                           Country Director      Vinod Thomas
                             Sector Director     John Redwood III
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Ricardo Tarifa

                                           BRAZIL
                        Emergency Fire Prevention & Control Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P058129                                                  Project Name: Emergency Fire Prevention & Control
                                                                     Project
Global Supplemental ID: P073882 (To be Determined)                   Supp. Name: RF 2nd Amazon Fire Prevention and
                                                                     Mobilization
Team Leader: Ricardo L. B. Tarifa                                    TL Unit: LCSRF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Fire Prevention & Control Project              L/C/TF Number: SCL-43890
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

       Sector/subsector: Central government administration (54%); Other social services
                            (23%); Sub-national government administration (23%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 06/04/1998                                      Effective: 07/15/1998                02/22/2000
     Appraisal: 07/27/1998                                         MTR:
     Approval: 09/10/1998                                       Closing: 08/31/2000                 12/31/2004



   Supplemental Name: RF 2nd Amazon Fire Prevention and                           L/C/TF Number: TF-28924
                            Mobilization

       Sector/subsector: Forestry (100%)
                  Theme: (Historic)ENVIRONMENT

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council:                                                 Effective:
     Appraisal:                                                    MTR:
     Approval:                                                  Closing:

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/IBAMA
                      Other Partners:      Amazon Network - GTA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:                John Redwood III                               Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Ricardo Tarifa                                 Daniel R. Gross
ICR Primary Author:             Ricardo L. B. Tarifa; Cristina
                                Roriz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating                             Rating (Supplemental GEF)
                           Outcome:        S

                    Sustainability:     L
   Institutional Development Impact:    SU
                 Bank Performance:      S
            Borrower Performance:       S


                                                 QAG (if available)      ICR
                               Quality at Entry:
                    Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Brazil Amazon Emergency Fire Prevention and Control
Project (PROARCO) were to: (1) prevent and control large-scale wildfires in the southern part of
the Brazilian Amazon during the dry season of 1998 and (2) generate lessons regarding forest fire
prevention and suppression techniques through (i) risk-assessment activities; (ii) fire prevention,
primarily through community mobilization and training; (iii) strengthening emergency
coordination at federal, state and municipal levels; (iv) building capacity for fire suppression; and
(v) monitoring and evaluation.

The project was scheduled to begin in September 1998, as an emergency response to wildfires
that had devastated approximately 20 percent of the State of Roraima earlier that year. The
wildfires had consumed a large amount of closed-canopy forest, savannas, agricultural fields and
Indian lands. At that time, it was expected that the upcoming years would be very dry due to the
"El Niño" weather pattern and there was a perceived risk that catastrophic wildfires could spread
throughout the region.

The project was designed to assist federal and state environmental agencies in the Amazon to
implement an educational and awareness campaign, provide training in fire prevention and
control, and establish a rapid response task force to combat major wildfires. The project's focus
was on the "Arc of Deforestation," which was identified as a high-risk area by weather data,
modeling and satellite imagery. The name PROARCO is derived from this area.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four components:

Component 1 - Risk Assessment and Fire Monitoring.                 This component would finance the
assessment of fire risk and the monitoring of fires allowing decision-makers to identify which
parts of the Arc were most at risk and guide prevention and suppression efforts and the allocation
of resources to those efforts.         This early warning system was based on the integration of
information on soil moisture, forest types, rainfall, and human activity maps.

Component 2 - Forest Fire Prevention.            The objective of this component was to prevent the



                                                    - 2 -

occurrence of forest fires through (1) public awareness and educational campaigns in high-risk
areas related to the controlled use of fire, and the risks and consequences of uncontrolled burning;
(2) the establishment, training and equipping of fire brigades at local and municipal levels to
address small-scale fires promptly and prevent them from burning out of control. In the event of
uncontrollable wildfires, the State Fire Brigades would be called in; and (3) increased enforcement
operations and compliance with regulations in the Deforestation Arc as part of an integral system
that would prevent and regulate illegal burning activities.

Component 3 - Forest Fire Suppression. This component was designed to finance preparedness
and expenses related to actual fire- fighting activities. Contingency plans for combating forest
fires would be developed accordingly. Major fires that were beyond the control of State Fire
Companies would be referred to the Federal Task Force, coordinated by the Strategic Nucleus.
This Task Force would be responsible for the acquisition and distribution of fire-fighting
equipment, the provision of training to state and local fire brigades and coordinating simultaneous
fire-fighting efforts in different regions. It would maintain a "situation room" on a 24-hour alert
during the burning season and would be supported by similar state coordinating bodies. The
Strategic Nucleus would consist of representatives of the MMA, Secretariat for Federal Affairs
(SEPRE), the Air Force, Army and Federal District Fire Department (CBMDF).

Component 4 - Project Coordination, Monitoring & Evaluation, and Studies. This component
would finance the establishment of a coordinating unit to manage, monitor and evaluate project
implementation. It would also serve as a platform for studies and pilot activities aimed at
improving emergency response capacity, developing an emergency classification system, response
hierarchies,         communication           systems         and       contingency         planning.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

Consistency with the CAS and Government Priorities:. The project was fully consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1998, which identifies natural resources conservation as
one of the priorities for World Bank assistance in Brazil. The project was also consistent with
the Government of Brazil's (GOB) priorities. At that time, Brazil was confronted with an
emergency situation created by the large-scale wildfires in Roraima and there was a risk that
catastrophic wildfires could spread throughout the region.

Quality of the Design: Project design was appropriate and continues to be valid. The project
included an early warning system, fire prevention and suppression activities, and preparedness at
national, state and local levels. The project was prepared rapidly and some aspects typically
addressed during project preparation were left to implementation, due to the lack of time during
preparation. These included the implementation agreements between IBAMA and the
participating states and municipalities. The legal agreement included many conditions for
effectiveness. As a consequence, the project only became effective in February of 2000, 18
months after Board approval and five months after loan signing. However, the delay did not


                                                  - 3 -

significantly affect the beginning of project activities since the Bank authorized the reallocation of
US$3.9 million from the existing NEP loan (National Environment Project), which was used to
finance the initial activities planned under PROARCO, especially the acquisition of fire
suppression equipment. An important outcome of the preparation effort was that some activities
initially identified as part of the project, such as fire prevention and mobilization of farmers and
local communities, became an independent project (The Fire Mobilization and Prevention in the
Amazon - PROTEGER). This project, with US$1.0 million in grant funds from USAID, was
implemented by The Amazon Network (GTA), a coalition of hundreds of Amazonian grassroots
organizations, was administered by the Bank as part of Brazil's Rain Forest Pilot Program (RFPP)
. The linkages of PROARCO with both the NEP and the RFPP are examples of collaboration
among different Bank-supported operations.

The design of the project was flexible enough to allow the appropriate development of the
activities. As the drought was not severe as expected, and in the absence of major wildfires, there
was a shift in emphasis from fire suppression to prevention, from enforcement to licensing, and
from a centralized to a decentralized system of fire control.

Project Risks. The risk rating at entry was substantial. The main risks identified at appraisal were
(i) the lack of institutional ownership and participation by states, municipalities, NGOs and the
private sector, (ii) the possibility that large-scale fires would overwhelm the capacity of
institutions to respond adequately, and (iii) that local communities would fail to cooperate and
participate in training and prevention activities. These risks were valid at the time of preparation,
but none of them were realized during project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the achievement of the objectives and outcomes is rated satisfactory. No catastrophic
large-scale forest fires occurred during the project's lifetime, and the project generated valuable
lessons regarding fire prevention and suppression in the Amazon. In addition, the project
contributed to introducing a new line of thought within IBAMA, which was previously focused
mainly on combating fires in the protected areas and on law enforcement elsewhere. The
relationship between the communities, which became the project's partners, and the public
institutions also became more productive, turning into a collaborative effort

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Component I. Risk Assessment and Fire Monitoring

This component is rated highly satisfactory. The project established a modern fire monitoring
system that provides daily updated information on fire occurrence and risk. It also provides daily
reports and maps on the occurrence of fires in protected areas and indigenous lands. The system
was expanded and today covers most of Latin America. The fire monitoring information is easily
accessed via the internet
(http://www2.ibama.gov.br/proarco/relatorio/) and PROARCO also sends this information directly to
agencies interested in fire-related information (Ministry of the Environment, municipalities,
NGOs, etc.).



                                                    - 4 -

4.2.2 Component II: Forest Fire Prevention

This component is rated satisfactory. The project implemented all the activities that were
proposed under this component either fully or partially as described below:

(1) Public awareness and educational campaigns were implemented with the collaboration of the
Amazon Network (GTA) and other NGOs. The partnership between the Brazilian Institute for
the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) and NGOs was important since
many NGOs are better integrated with local communities. IBAMA is frequently perceived as an
enforcement agency, rather than an educational organization. About 115,000 booklets and
200,000 magazines on fire prevention were developed, published and distributed to small farmers
and communities in the Amazon. Also, PROARCO supported the training of 1,137 communities
on fire prevention and controlled burning techniques in partnership with NGOs. Project staff also
participated in 100 seminars with fire prevention-related themes.

(2) PROARCO supported the creation and training of 74 Municipal Brigades and 812 Fire
Prevention Groups at the community level. About 520 kits with firefighting equipment were
distributed to communities, and another 33 kits were distributed to Municipal Brigades.

(3) Increased enforcement operations took place in the Deforestation Arc as part of an integrated
system that would prevent and regulate illegal burning activities. The use of satellite imagery and
helicopters during enforcement activities had an important inhibiting effect. Many farmers were
surprised to see their forest clearings and property clearly marked on the map for enforcement.


4.2.3 Component III: Forest Fire Suppression

Overall, this component is rated satisfactory. The component implemented activities related to
preparedness, training and equipping of fire brigades and actual firefighting.

Preparedness: The preparedness for fire suppression involved the establishment of agreements
among several agencies and the establishment of a Strategic Nucleus and the Federal Task Force.
Both of these groups were created by a Portaria Interministerial n.04 of November, 1998 signed
by the MMA and SEPRE/MPO. The Strategic Nucleus was managed by the National Civil
Defense Organization from the Secretariat of Regional Affairs of the Ministry of Planning. This
nucleus coordinated the Task Force, which consisted of the Army, Air Force, Civil Defense, and
the Federal Military Fire Department, and as needed, selected state-level fire departments with
specialized training in wildfires.

Contingency plans were prepared. In the first years of the project, the nine states of the Amazon
Region prepared emergency action plans. IBAMA signed operational agreements with these
states and the twenty municipalities where the risk of fire was identified. These agreements would
allow for the allocation of funds and equipment for the fire suppression activities. A lasting



                                                 - 5 -

impact of the project was the creation of a "forest fire" unit and training within the state-level fire
departments, which prior to PROARCO, focused mainly on structural fires. Also, the Army and
Airforce battalions located in the Amazon included forest fires in its training activities.

Preparedness activities at the state and municipal levels included preparation of 9 state-level
Emergency Contingency Plans and the establishment, training and equipping of 40 Municipal
Brigades. In the fire season of the first two years, PROARCO funded the insurance payment and
a stipend for the period of firefighting. The results of this support were mixed. Although the
municipal brigades were active in some 540 actions of firefighting, several of these brigades did
not continue to exist after the initial two years of the project. The main reason for this was the
fact that municipal governments could not support the payment of firefighters. Nevertheless,
several of the brigades continued to exist on a voluntary basis and were fully supported by the
local community. Membership in a fire brigade became a source of pride.

Training and equipping of Fire Brigades. Firefighting equipment and training were provided to
state-level Fire Brigades. Specialized training on combating forest fires was also provided to 580
state firefighters. Additionally, PROARCO supported the training of 231 forest police from the
states of Pará and Roraima, and 475 army personnel in the states of Roraima, Acre and Pará.
Nine high-level firefighters participated in training on combating forest fires in the USA and 45
officers were trained elsewhere in Brazil.       Training was also provided to 28 FUNAI staff
members.

Fire Suppression.       The Federal Task Force was activated only in cases when the state-level fire
departments could not deal with the fire. PROARCO funded the actions of the Task Force in six
events.


4.2.4 Component IV: Project Coordination, Monitoring & Evaluation, and Studies

This component is rated as unsatisfactory. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) had a qualified
and committed team, yet a major source of problems was that the coordinator of the project was
changed six times during implementation.        These changes resulted in instability and loss of
institutional continuity. In addition, the PCU was not successful in monitoring the activities
carried out in the local IBAMA offices, or keeping an accurate record of activities. Project
coordination was busy with day-to-day functions and did not give sufficient attention to the
project evaluation and other studies initially considered.      Project coordinators did not have
autonomy to perform their duties and had to constantly ask permission from the higher level
authorities to approve activities. This situation was a source of frustration as some agreements
between the coordinator and NGOs, communities and local organizations were later not honored.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A




                                                 - 6 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was substantial on IBAMA (the implementing agency) and
State-level Fire Departments and municipalities. Prior to the implementation of PROARCO,
IBAMA's fire prevention activities were focused only on the protected areas it administered.
PROARCO introduced the experience of working in collaboration with a large number of partners
throughout the Amazon region. By working in collaboration with NGOs and local communities
on prevention activities, IBAMA has improved its image in the field. By providing a forum for
the discussion of fire prevention and combat activities at the local level, the project allowed an
improved interaction with municipalities, Environment and Health Secretariats, State Forestry
Police, State Firefighting Departments, etc...

The institutional development impact was also substantial with other agencies. For example,
State-level Fire Departments created provisions to deal with forest fires in their training program
(prior to the project the focus was only on urban fires) and several municipalities prepared
contingency plans and created a municipal committee for fire prevention.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    The use of fire as an agricultural tool is widespread and has been used for centuries to clear
    small areas for crops. Due to its efficiency and low cost, the use of fire will continue to exist
    in the Amazon and to stop it was outside of the control of the project. In addition, each year,
    a significant amount of land is burned by accidental fires." There is some evidence that the
    Amazon forests are becoming increasingly fire prone and that large fires may occur in dry
    years. The PROARCO objective was not to attempt to stop the use of fire, but rather to raise
    awareness about the danger of accidental fires and to teach controlled burning procedures.

The occurrence of large-scale forest fires is closely related to climatic factors, such as the
droughts associated with "El Niño." Forest fires are not a new phenomena in Amazonia. There is
evidence that severe droughts may have provoked forest burning at a 400-700 year interval. In a
year with severe drought, the fire prevention activities can help to reduce the extent of the
wildfires, and preparedness and contingency plans can help the spread of wildfires. However,
once a large wildfire starts, it is very expensive and difficult to stop it. Fortunately, during the
implementation of PROARCO, the droughts have not been as severe as expected, which
positively affected the outcome of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    The Fiscal Policy established by the Brazilian Government has restricted the budget allocation
    to most Bank-funded projects in Brazil, including PROARCO. This reduction led to delays in
    the disbursement of project funds, and consequently in its implementation schedule.
    Additionally, the federal budget is often released late in the year and it is subject to further
    spending limits.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Budget restrictions occurred not only at the federal level, but also at the level of the
    implementation agency. Since IBAMA received lower funding from the federal government,
    it also allocated less funds to the project. Once the emergency phase was over and the



                                                     - 7 -

    Government realized that no major catastrophe was likely to occur, even less funds were
    approved for the project.

    A major factor that influenced the outcome of the project was the numerous changes in the
    coordination of PROARCO and the lack of autonomy of coordinators.                      During its
    implementation period, PROARCO had six coordinators and several changes in the PCU.
    This instability resulted in frequent delays as the new coordinators become acquainted with
    the project and in a significant loss of institutional memory. Project coordinators many times
    did not have the autonomy to make decisions, and actions negotiated by the coordinator at the
    local level were not authorized by IBAMA high-level staff.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    The original estimated total project cost was US$20.0 million, out of which US$15.0 million
    (75 percent) was financed by the Bank loan with a counterpart contribution of US$5.0 million.
    The final amount disbursed from the Loan Account was US$8.93 million (only 59.5 percent of
    the original loan amount). The main reasons for the lower than estimated disbursement were:
    (i) The Government budgeted less funds for the project as the emergency diminished and the
    following seasons were not as dry as expected; (ii) There were no major catastrophic
    wildfires, and thus less need for expensive firefighting activities; and (iii) The exchange rate of
    the Brazilian real to the dollar varied from 1.15: 1 to 4:1 during the project's lifetime, thus the
    amount of funds in the local currency increased.

    The Closing Date of the project was extended three times, attending a request from the
    Brazilian Government to continue fire monitoring and prevention activities. The original
    closing date was August 2000, which was extended to December 2001, then December 2002
    and then for another two years, finally closing on December 31, 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of this project is rated as likely since the main activities did not end with the
closure of the Bank loan. These activities continue to be executed with funding from the Brazilian
Government not as an emergency project, but as a program to be expanded throughout the entire
country.

The project was incorporated within IBAMA's National Center for the Prevention and Combat of
Forest Fires. This Center, which includes both the PROARCO and PrevFogo (National System
for the Prevention and Suppression of Forest Fires). projects, continues to finance activities
previously executed by PROARCO. The center is responsible for the prevention and combating
of forest fires throughout the entire country. It conducts awareness campaigns, trains rural
farmers and local fire brigades, and does fire management in protected areas administered by
IBAMA. The center also works with the same three pillars of PROARCO - Fire Monitoring,
Prevention and Combat.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned above, several of the activities financed by the project are being incorporated as
part of the regular operation of the IBAMA.


                                                  - 8 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
In the absence of a marginally satisfactory rating, the Bank's performance during project
preparation is rated satisfactory. At the onset of the emergency situation in May 1998, the Bank
team responded promptly to the request of the Brazilian Government, providing technical support
for planning activities and project preparation, and processing the loan rapidly.

During preparation, the Bank required the establishment of a multi-disciplinary PCU, composed
of specialists in key areas. It also recommended that activities be carried out in partnership
among the federal, state and local levels, with the participation of NGOs to reach out to
smallholder farmers. However, the Bank also included an excessive number of effectiveness
conditions in an emergency situation. These conditions included (1) that an Emergency Situation
has been declared in at least twenty Municipalities (2) that the implementation agreement between
IBAMA and MMA has become effective; (3) the agreement between IBAMA and the Ministry of
Integration has become effective; (4) that the participation agreements between IBAMA and each
of the participating states at least twenty municipalities have become effective; (5) that State
Action Plans encompassing at least fifty percent of the deforestation arc have been received by the
Bank; (6) that the Project Coordination Unit have been duly established and its key staff
appointed and (7) that the operational manual has been furnished to the Bank. A partial result of
this was that the project was only declared effective 18 months after Board approval. At the time
of preparation, these conditions were considered important for project implementation, but some
could be better considered as a condition of disbursement, thus allowing that some project
activities to start.

The impact of this delay was minimized due to the existing US$$3.9 million that was reallocated
from the NEP (National Environment Project) to finance equipment for fire suppression, for the
establishment of an early warning system for high-risk areas, and to prepare for the next dry
seasons. However, the delay in effectiveness could have had a potentially negative impact if the
number of fires had actually increased at that time.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Once the project was approved, the
rainy season began and the risk of fires decreased, as well as the need for field missions. During
the first 18 months after approval, the Bank's actions were focused on assisting the Borrower in
meeting the conditions of effectiveness. Due to the reduced risk of fires, initial supervision efforts
were less intense than expected for an "emergency" project in a highly sensitive region such as the
Amazon.     Nonetheless measures were taken to improve project implementation.             Based on
Government's request, the Bank extended the closing date three times to improve financial
performance. The presence of staff in the field office was very positive and allowed more
continuous interaction with the Borrower, primarily during preparation and the final stages of
implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory based on the following:



                                                 - 9 -

(1)     The Bank provided the Borrower with intensive technical assistance during preparation
and provided strong leadership;
(2)     The Bank was proactive and agreed with Government on a reallocation of substantial
funding from an existing loan, which allowed the Government to implement some emergency
activities immediately and prepare for the next dry season;
(3)     The Bank, through the Rain Forest Pilot Program, mobilized additional funding from
USAID and prepared a direct grant to NGOs for fire prevention activities;
(4)     The supervision team provided appropriate advice and worked in close cooperation with
the Borrower;
(5)     The Bank supervision team was generally flexible and allowed for modifications in the
percentage of Bank financing;
(6)     Project execution benefited from stable Bank Task Management for the duration of the
project, from preparation to implementation;
(7)     The TTL assigned to the project was highly knowledgeable, with decades of experience in
Brazil and dealing with environmental projects, as well as with Bank procedures (Procurement
accredited); and
(8)     The Bank addressed implementation problems as they arose, taking advantage of field
staff in Brasilia and close proximity to the Borrower.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. The Borrower demonstrated a
commitment to the project with the direct participation of high-level IBAMA staff, including the
President and the director of enforcement, in project preparation activities. The GOB preparation
team and the Bank staff made a great effort to prepare and process the project in just four
months.

At the onset of the perceived emergency, the Government showed a commitment from several
ministries and government agencies during project preparation, including the Ministry of the
Environment      (IBAMA),     National    Integration Ministry    (MI),    Ministry   of   Planning
(SEPRE-Secretariat of Regional Affairs, SIDEC-National Civil Defense System), the Air Force,
Army, and the Federal District Fire Department.

In July 1998, the Government signed the Presidential Decree n.1.511 creating a Federal Task
Force to coordinate fire suppression activities, giving SEPRE the power to declare a State of
Emergency in states and municipalities within the Amazon region where climatic conditions could
potentially lead to the outbreak of fire. The Task Force, coordinated by the SEPRE National
Civil Defense Organization (SINDEC), included some 500 firefighters from the Federal District
Military Fire Department (CBMDF), the Army (responsible for logistics in forest-related
operations), the Air Force (responsible for providing airlifts to areas not easily accessible in the
Amazon), and if needed, selected state-level fire departments with specialized training in wildfires.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory based on the following:
(i) Project objectives of preventing LARGE-scale wildfires was reached, (ii) Government was



                                                - 10 -

successful putting together several public agencies to reach a common goal, (iii) in the local
currency, the project used most of the funds originally budgeted, however, performance was
better in the first two years of implementation, but once the perception of the emergency was
over, the Government reduced the budget allocation for the project, due to the situation of overall
budget restriction that Brazil was facing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated unsatisfactory.           The PCU was staffed with
qualified personnel throughout project implementation. A few technical staff remained during
implementation and the financial specialist was knowledgeable on Bank procedures. However,
frequent management changes ­ IBAMA had three Presidents, four Directors and there were six
project coordinators during the project's lifespan - had a negative impact on project
implementation. Progress reports and annual operational plans were often delivered later than
required, and the new project coordinators did not have the institutional memory. Coordination
between the IBAMA PCU at headquarters and IBAMA agencies located in the states was weak.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons were learned from this project. These lessons include some also mentioned
in the OED paper "Lessons from Natural Disasters and Emergency Reconstruction."

The Bank should be involved in an emergency response from the outset.                  The Bank's
involvement started when the Roraima fires were already under control, and it was expected that
new large-scale forest fires could spread throughout the Amazon due to the exceptional dry
season caused by the El Niño climatic phenomena. The involvement of the Bank allowed
financing from the National Environment Project to be reallocated for emergency and preparatory
work. Thus, fire prevention activities actually started even before the PROARCO loan agreement
was signed.

Supervision needs to be intensive in emergency projects. Emergency projects are often prepared
very quickly and some issues are only defined during project implementation. It is important that
the project design is flexible enough to accommodate rapidly changing conditions and that there
is a strong supervision effort.

Emergency situations require flexibility. In an emergency, work often has to be carried out quickly
to save or protect lives and property. Policies and procedures need to be flexible enough to
ensure a timely response to the situation. The Bank should assess the amount of requirements
requested from the Borrower when evaluating an emergency project. In this case, the Bank was
flexible during the initial stage when it approved the reallocation of funds from the NEP project
with simplified procurement procedures (shopping).

In an emergency, inaction may be politically or psychologically unacceptable. Once large-scale
fires have occurred, the costs of stopping them are prohibitive.         In many cases, it may be
impossible to contain fires in remote areas if it does not rain. Even then, the government must act,


                                                 - 11 -

not only to avoid the spread of fire to other sensitive areas such as protected areas and indigenous
lands, but also to give the general public a sense that something is being done.

Emergency projects must be followed by a long-term strategy to avoid future emergencies.
This project combined both urgent and long-term objectives in a single two-year emergency
project, which was later extended three times, for a total of six years. Perhaps it would have been
better to have either a short-term emergency project with very flexible arrangements, followed by
a normal longer-term investment project, or a project with two phases. In this project, which
includes preparation for a foreseen emergency, a large portion of the budget was initially reserved
for fire-fighting activities.  As the large-scale wildfires did not occur, some activities were
refocused on prevention.

Decentralization and partnerships are needed to reach the field.        In a remote and large region
such as the Brazilian Amazon, it was clear from the beginning that no agency alone would be able
to carry out all project activities.   Thus, the project established conditions for coordinating
partnerships and obtaining the cooperation of several federal and state agencies as below:
·       The fire monitoring was carried out through close collaboration between IBAMA and the
National Space Research Institute (INPE)
·       Prevention activities included a partnership of NGOs, such as the Amazon Network of
NGOs (GTA), which mobilized local communities and distributed dissemination materials and
firefighting kits provided by PROARCO.
·       Preparedness involved the creation of a Strategic Nucleus with participation of the Civil
Defense, the Army, Air Force and the Federal District Fire Department.
·       Suppression activities were designed to start at the community level, with the organization
of community fire prevention groups that would promote controlled burnings. Acidental fires
would be dealt with by the municipal brigades, and if they become too difficult, the state fire
brigades would be called in. The Federal Task Force would only intervene in large-scale wildfires
in sensitive areas that become out of control. This task force included the Army to help with
logistics and the Air force for moving people to remote areas.

Although collaboration and involvement of all these actors was successful overall, there were also
some difficulties. In many cases, the project was not able to attend all the needs identified at a
local level. There were delays in delivering training and equipment to the local brigades. The
needs of most partners ­ from the state fire departments to the local fire prevention groups ­ were
far superior to the capacity of the project.

Social capital is important for long term sustainability. The project contributed, directly or
indirectly, to the creation of social capital at all levels, especially in terms of understanding the
importance of communal actions and partnerships to prevent wildfires and seek alternatives. As a
result, the activities and mechanisms that contributed to the project's implementation are still in
progress in many participating communities, even though the financial support from the project
has come to an end.

To cope with an emergency situation, it is important to define roles and responsibilities in
advance.    A clear and agreed chain of command is crucial for harmonious collaboration among



                                                 - 12 -

different institutions during firefighting.            The project involved several federal, state and
municipal-level institutions during field actions. During the initial stages of an emergency, there is
considerable commitment from all participating agencies.                 To translate this commitment in
coordinated actions is necessary to have an agreed chain of command.

Monitoring and Evaluation. Systematic monitoring and evaluation is an essential management
and planning tool.        A few simple and practical indicators make supervision generally more
objective and efficient. Continuous monitoring and evaluation, conducted both by the Bank and
the Borrower, are crucial for ensuring quality and efficiency. A mid-term evaluation can also be a
valuable asset to any project.

Technology is not an end in itself. The project was successful in establishing a modern risk alert
and fire monitoring system that provides online and updated information on fire risk. This
information is freely available on the Internet and faxes are sent daily to the relevant ministries
(e.g. the Minister of the Environment receives detailed information on fire risk and occurrence in
protected areas, and the Minister of Justice receives information on indigenous lands, as well as
the civil defense at the Ministry of National Integration). Although the information was very
valuable at the national level for planning, it was underutilized at the local level. Municipalities
and local and state offices of extension and environmental agencies should have been trained
better in the use of this tool.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from IBAMA. The PROARCO Project was very important for IBAMA and the Government.
IBAMA dedicated great efforts to implement the project and to assess its lessons. The actions implemented
by the Project will have their continuity assured using funds from IBAMA's budget.

We agree with the information presented and with most of the assessment in this report. However there is
one aspect that we would like to highlight. We understand that the rating of the component IV (Project
Coordination) and the implementing agency as unsatisfactory is not the most appropriated. The
coordination unit has faced great difficulties, since the beginning of the project, to perform its activities
with a reduced budget, and with due to the lack of autonomy that hampered its performance. We would
like to stress that the Project was initially classified as an emergency by the Federal Government, and this
was a priority in the budget allocation. However, after the emergency period, there were restrictions in the
allocation of the project's annual budget, which reduced the capacity of the PCU to act.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from The Amazon Network (GTA).
The partnership between GTA and IBAMA emerged after the 1998 forest fires, during the
preparation of the PROARCO project. GTA was then invited to participate in the preparation
effort, representing Amazon organized civil society.

The original idea of PROARCO was to work with fire monitoring, prevention and combat. Before
long it was clear that grassroots organizations had a comparative advantage to mobilize small
farmers for prevention of forest fires and as a channel for their training. Thus, the Fire Prevention


                                                        - 13 -

and Mobilization Project (PROTEGER) was created as an autonomous project funded by the
RFPP, led by civil society, focusing on mobilization at the grassroots level and training. The
linkage between the two projects was that IBAMA would supply some equipment, dissemination
materials and participate during fire prevention training, while PROTEGER would organize and
reach the communities.

In the initial stages, PROARCO dedicated the bulk of its efforts to the monitoring of forest fires
at the regional level using remote sensing technology and developing a risk assessment
methodology. PROTEGER focused on the mobilization of small farmers. The PROTEGER
project focused on raising awareness in the communities about the risks of forest fires and the
need for fire management. Instead of condemning the culturally conditioned slash-and-burn
practices, the project strived to promote more rational use of fire in agricultural work and to look
for alternatives to the use of fire.

Working together was not always easy. There were delays in delivering equipment, and the
differences in modus operandi of a non-governmental organization and a government agency were
visible. IBAMA's law enforcement role had always been with caution by the communities. It
cannot be denied, though, that its partnership with civil society has helped IBAMA develop a
better relationship with some communities and even dedicate more resources to prevention. The
mere participation of IBAMA officers in local training activities has contributed to improving the
relationship, and civil society recognizes that this requires a continuous mutual effort towards
dialogue.

There is still room for improvements in this process. However, it is clear that this kind of
collaboration between government and civil society is very import to reach the local communities.
However, in order to obtain long term results and in a larger scale, it is necessary to change
public policies to promote a development model that is friendlier to the environment and to the
small farmers in the Amazon.



10. Additional Information




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
(i)Local settlers are equipped and trained in    Fire prevention training courses are carried  Satisfactory.
controlled burning techniques and fire           out; educational campaign reaches the
prevention measures, and are taught the          population of the Amazon.
current risks of forest fires due to the atypical
dry conditions of 1998.
(ii) fire supression units equipped and trained Municipal and State Fire Brigades are trained Satisfactory.
and prepared at a local, state and federal       and equipped.
level.
(iii)Fire risk and meteorological data                                                         Satisfactory.
generated, analyzed and delivered in a clear     Maps developed and distributed to users and
and timely fashion to decision makers at all     decision-makers; operational manuals are
levels.                                          created and distributed to end users.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Reliable fire risk-assessment models created Risk, weather, deforestation and fire maps        Highly satisfactory. An excellent fire-risk
and in place.                                    created, and disseminated as of 9/98; field   assessment model was created, based on
                                                 testing of maps carried out as of 9/98;       satellite images, hotspots, deforestation, etc.
                                                 decision model operational as of 9/98.
Alert system in place with timely                Operational manuals created; communication Highly satisfactory. A system of green, yellow
dissemination of relevant information to         networks established in states and            and red alert was developed, and is made
decision-makers.                                 municipalities along the Arc as of 9/98.      available in daily bulletins via the Internet.
Clear priorities established for target                                                        Priorities defined.
areas/populations.
Operating Agreements signed among                                                              Five operating agreements signed with the
relevant federal agencies, as well as between                                                  Ministry for Integration, FEMA/MT, Ministry
federal and state agencies.                                                                    for the Environment, INPE and IMAC/AC.
Emergency fire enforcement campaign in           Enforcement teams deployed to detect          Helicopters are deployed when necessary for
place.                                           hotspots.                                     combating fires and enforcement; pilots
                                                                                               trained in firefighting. Campaigns are
                                                                                               launched during critical periods.
Farmers, ranchers, farm workers trained in       120,000 people trained in controlled burning. Partially completed. About 25 training
controlled burning.                                                                            courses were carried out, training 24,352
                                                                                               people.
Public information and community outreach                                                      Outreach program conducted in collaboration
program in place.                                                                              with PROTEGER Project. In addition,
                                                                                               exchange visits were organized for the
                                                                                               demonstration of production techniques
                                                                                               without fire.
State and Municipal Fire Brigades created,       Local and Municipal Brigades are trained on   812 groups for controlled burning created
trained, equipped.                               fire prevention techniques and equipped from (10,037 rural families trained); 74 Municipal
                                                 9/98 to 12/98; State Fire Departments trained Brigades formed (1,427 people trained); 264
                                                 and equipped for wild land fires.             soldiers from State Fire Departments trained.
Emergency control center established and         Situation room in SEPRE fully staffed,        Deficient.
functioning 24-hours during high fire-risk       equipped and operational as of 9/98.
periods.
Project monitoring and evaluation system in      Implement project monitoring unit to assess   Unsatisfactory.
place based on indicators of inputs, outputs     project performance; undertake specific
and impacts.                                     studies related to the lessons learned on how
                                                 to better manage the increasing risk of fires
                                                 in the medium-term.
All information regarding project activities,                                                  Partially met.




                                                                     - 15 -

including equipment procurement and
distribution, disseminated in a timely and
transparent manner.
Advisory Group established and operational.                                               Advisory group established, but not
                                                                                          operational.
Communications consultant hired.                                                          The project produced and distributed 15,000
                                            Brochures on controlled burnings and          brochures "Good fire is controlled fire";
                                            posters, TV and radio spots, etc. distributed 200,000 magazines "Amazônia Legal";
                                            as of 9/98.                                   100,000 brochures "Controlled burning".


Green Line established, operational and                                                   Green Line established.
staffed with trained personnel.
Enforcement teams established and                                                         State Fire Prevention and Control
operational.                                                                              Committees formed in 7 Amazonian states.
COMDECs, CEDECs, Conservation and                                                         Partially met. 28 FUNAI technicians trained in
Indigenous Areas Fire Brigades established,                                               combating forest fires.
trained, equipped and operational.
                                            Federal Task Force established and            Satisfactory. 1,366 military staff trained in
Participating military entities in          equipped; operational manual developed for    combating forest fires, 475 of these were
response-ready condition.                   the Task Force.                               also equipped.


1End of project




                                                             - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Risk Assessment and Fire Monitoring                          0.50             2.25             450
Forest Fire Prevention                                       7.00             8.00           114.3
Forest Fire Suppression                                      8.60             0.52               6
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation              2.20             1.47            66.8
Unallocated                                                  1.55                                0

Total Baseline Cost                                         19.85           12.24
                        Total Project Costs                 19.85           12.24
                                        Front-end fee        0.15             0.15
                  Total Financing Required                  20.00           12.39


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           4.73             0.00         0.00          0.00         4.73
                                  (3.16)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.16)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         2.82          0.00         2.82
Consultants                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.82)          (0.00)       (2.82)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            12.45         0.00          0.00         12.45
                                  (0.00)           (9.02)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (9.02)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           4.73            12.45         2.82          0.00         20.00
                                  (3.16)           (9.02)      (2.82)          (0.00)      (15.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.43            2.00         1.26           0.00        4.69
                                  (1.08)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.08)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         7.70           0.00        7.70
Consultants                       (0.00)          (0.00)       (7.70)         (0.00)       (7.70)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00

                                                - 17 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.15)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               1.43               2.00              8.96             0.00             12.39
                                          (1.08)             (0.00)            (7.85)            (0.00)           (8.93)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Risk Assesssment and Fire      5.00         1.05                     1.83         0.42                  36.6      40.0
Monitoring
Forest Fire Prevention         7.00         2.10                     5.60         2.40                  80.0     114.3
Forest Fire Suppression        1.00         0.30                     0.35         0.17                  35.0      56.7
Project Coordination           1.50         0.45                     1.00         0.47                  66.7     104.4
Front-end Fee                  0.15                                  0.15                               100.0
Unallocated                    0.35         1.10                                                         0.0      0.0




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               07/06/1998                1    TTL(1)



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               07/27/1998                4    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); FMS
                                              (1), PAS (1)


 Supervision

               06/21/2000                 3   TTL (1); CO-TTL (1);                  S               S
                                              ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
               02/29/2000                 3   FOREST SPECIALIST(1);                 S               S
                                              BIOLOGIST; OPERATIONAL
                                              ANALIST(1)
               09/13/2001                 5   TTL (1); ENVIRONMENT                  S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (2);
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1); FMS(1)
               10/08/2002                 2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                              FOREST FIRE SPECIALIST (1)
               11/06/2003                 1   FOREST SPECIALIST (1)                 S               S
               04/12/2003                 1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
               02/20/2004                 4   FOREST SPECIALIST (1); PAS            S               S
                                              - PROCUREMENT (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1); FMS (1)
               05/07/2004                 1   FOREST SPECIALIST (1);                S               S
               12/20/2004                 5   FOREST SPECIALIST (1);                S               S
                                              BIOLOGIST (1); OPERATIONS
                                              ANALIST (1); IBAMA
                                              DIRECTOR (1); PROARCO
                                              COORDINATOR (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                          40,393.33
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    0.17                       20,196.67
  Supervision                             63.85                     217,012.41
  ICR                                      7.26                       6,709.81



                                               - 20 -

Total    71.28         284,312.22




             - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

In addition to the various aides-memoirs of the supervision missions, PAD (Project Appraisal
Document) and other Bank documents, and annual reports from the implementing agency, the
following documents provided information for the elaboration of this ICR:

1. Lições e Reflexões sobre o Projeto Proteger (Lessons and Considerations on the Proteger
Project). Sérgio Sauer. Brasília: GTA 2004. 40p.

2. Projeto Proteger: Relatório de Lições Aprendidas (Proteger Project: Report on Lessons
Learned). Sérgio Sauer. Brasília: GTA 2003. 39p.

3. Benatti, Jose Heder and Ana Cristina Barros. 1998. Prevencio as Queimadas Acidentais na
Amaz6nia. Belem, Para, Brazil: IPAM.

4. Confederacao Nacional da Industria. 1998. Incendios no Estado de Roraima - Relatório. Brazil.

5. IBAMA. 1998. Cartilha: 0 Verde e a Cor do Brasil. Brasilia, Brazil.

6. IBAMA/MMA. 1998. PROARCO - Programa de Prevenção e Controle as Queimadas e aos
Incendios Florestais no Arco do Desflorestamento. Brasilia, Brazil.

7. IBAMA/MMA. 1998. Roraima - Avaliado de Impacto Ambiental. Brasilia, Brazil.

8. IPAM. 1998. Fogo Reincidente na Amazonia - as Condicoes Naturais da Floresta Levam a
Problemas Cada Vez Mais Graves. Belem, Para, Brazil.

9. Mutch, Robert W. 1995. Fire Management in Brazil: Sustaining productive Ecosystems for
People ­ Future Expectations for PREVFOGO (Consultant Report). Brasilia, Brazil: UNDP.

10. Mutch, Robert W. 1998. PROARCO - Final Consultant Report. Washington DC: The World
Bank.




                                             - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Map of Project Area




                                        - 25 -

- 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

