Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18365 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED EMERGENCY LOAN
TN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
AMAZON EMERGENCY FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
PROARCO
August26, 1998
LCC5C
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 1998)
Currency Unit               Real (R$)
R$ 1.15                  US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR                   FUNAI Regional Administration
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CBMDF                 Federal District Military Fire Department
CEDEC                 State Civil Defense Committee
COMDEC                Municipal Civil Defense Committee
DIRCOF                IBAMA Environmental Control and Enforcement Department
FNMA                  National Environmental Fund (MMA-IDB)
FNS                   National Health Foundation
FUNAI                 National Indian Foundation, Ministry of Justice
GOB                   Government of Brazil
GTA                   Amazon Working Group (NGO)
IBAMA                 Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
INPE                  Brazil National Space Research Institute
IPAM                  Amazon Environmental Research Institute (NGO)
MMA                   Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon
MPO                   Brazil Ministry of Planning and Budget
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NEP                   National Environmental Project
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
NRPP                  Natural Resource Policy Program of the G-7 Pilot Project to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
Forest
OEMA                  State Environmental Agency
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
PDA                   Demonstration Project of the G-7 Pilot Project to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
PED                   Decentralized Matching Grant Project of NEP
PLANAFLORO            Rondonia - Natural Resources Management Project
PPG7                  Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
PREVFOGO              Wildlands Fire Protection Project (IBAMA)
PROARCO               Program for the Prevention and Control of Forest Fires in the Deforestation Arc in the Amazon
PROBIO                National Biodiversity Program
PRODEAGRO             Mato Grosso - Natural Resources Management Project
PRODESQUE             Fire and Deforestation Control Project of the G-7 Pilot Project to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
Forest
RFT                   Rain Forest Trust Fund
SEPRE                 Secretariat for Regional Affairs - MPO
SINDEC                National Civil Defense System, SEPRE - MPO
SUPES                 IBAMA State Superintendency
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
VAT                   Value Added Tax
Vice President                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director                         Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director                         Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Managers                      Daniel Gross & Ricardo Tarifa



Brazil
Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project in the Amazon
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Background
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Figure 1     Deforestation Arc



Brazil
Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil Country Management Unit
Date: August 26, 1998                                Task Managers: Daniel R. Gross & Ricardo Tarifa
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                  Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: BR-PE-58129    Sector: Environment       Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Emergency Loan                   Program of Targeted Intervention:          []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                   [X] Loan          [] Credit         [  Guarantee
For Loans:
Amount (US$m): 15.0
Proposed terms:                             [    Multicurrency        [X] Single currency, US dollars
Grace period (years): 5             []   Standard Variable    [   Fixed               [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge: nil
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                  Local                Foreign             Total
Federal Government                                                   4.8                   0.2                5.0
IBRD                                                                 12.7                  2.3               15.0
IBRD (Rain Forest Trust Fund)                                        0.0                   2.0                2.0
Total            17.5                   4.5               22.0
Borrower: The Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies:
* Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and Legal Amazon - MMA
* Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources - IBAMA
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):             1999        2000
Annual          14.0         1.0
Cumulative         14.0         15.0
For Guarantees: N/A
Retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$ 3 million (20% of Loan total) is requested for eligible expenditures incurred prior to
Loan effectiveness due to initiation of implementation in August 1998.
Project Implementation period: 2 years    Expected effectiveness date: September 15, 1998  Expected closing date: August 31, 2000



Page 2
A: Project Background and Development Objective
1. Project Background
The Brazilian Amazon contains nearly one third of the world's remaining tropical rainforests. These
forests provide important global environmental services such as a repository of biodiversity, a carbon
sink, and protection of the watershed of the World's largest river. Some scientists also believe that
regional weather patterns are closely linked to the mass of vegetation in the Amazon Rain Forest. World
attention has been focused in recent years on the degradation of large areas through forest-to-pasture
conversion, slash-and-burn agriculture, logging, mining and fires. Over the last decade, approximately
1.5 million hectares of old-growth forests have been cleared each year and 1 million hectares are
selectively logged in the Amazon. A large portion of these logged forests experience ground fires that
can kill up to 75% of adult trees.
Most of the burning that occurs during the Amazon dry season' is caused by farmers and ranchers
burning off cleared land to plant crops or renew pastures. Burning has been used for centuries by
indigenous peoples to clear small areas for crops. Since the 1970s, larger and larger areas of land were
cleared at once for pasture, plantation crops, and infrastructure. The high cost of mechanical clearing
meant that fire was by far the cheapest means of rapidly clearing felled timber and undesirable species.
However, each year, a significant amount of land is burned accidentally. In these "escaped" fires,
valuable timber, pasture, fences, power lines and other infrastructure may be destroyed. In 1998, there
has been a deficit in rainfall compared to other years due to the El Nifno weather pattern. Consequently,
the risk of escaped fires is higher in 1998 than in normal years. There is some evidence that the Amazon
forests are becoming increasingly fire prone and that large fires may occur in dry years.
During February/March 1998, a series of large-scale wildfires burned some 40,000 km2, or approximately
20%, of the state of Roraima, including 9,254 km2 of closed-canopy forest, and extensive areas of
savannas, agricultural fields and Indian reserves. These fires quickly burned through vast areas of
savanna, but also, unexpectedly, burned their way into forested areas, a highly unusual phenomenon. In
the opinion of many experts, such fires, once they occur on a large scale, are nearly impossible to
suppress. The burning in Roraima was finally halted only by the onset of the rains at the end of March
1998.
In Roraima, the damage to forest, savannas, pastures, livestock and human beings was dramatic. Many
farmers lost their crops and ranchers lost their cattle. Some homes were burned but, fortunately, there
was no loss of life. Hospitals in the area reported significant increases in admissions for acute
respiratory problems, and airports were closed down for days at a time by drifting smoke. Wells and
streams went dry and, when the rains finally began in late March, they were polluted by the runoff from
burned-over land. However, total damage was limited because of the relatively low population in the
area. The Government of Brazil budgeted R$28 million (US$23.7 million) in disaster relief funds for the
State.
As the dry season begins in the Southern Amazon in June/July 1998, there is a significantly increased
risk of escaped fires because of the abundance of highly flammable fuel, exacerbated by the increasing
extent of cleared, logged and previously burned areas. The highest risk area in the Southern Amazon for
the 1998 dry season was defined by a groundbreaking scientific study roughly as an arc (or,
Deforestation Arc) in the southern Amazon region some 200-600 km in width, and some 3,000 km in
length extending from the State of Maranhao in the East through parts of Tocantins, Para, Mato Grosso,
Amazonas, Rond6nia and Acre in the West (Figure 1). Meteorological data show that some parts of this
IThe seasons above and below the equator are inverted. In the North, the rains fall from roughly April to
September; in the South, the rainy season corresponds roughly to November to April.



Page 3
area have experienced large rainfall deficits, and soil moisture is exceptionally low at some points. This
area corresponds to the expansion of the Brazilian frontier where logging, ranching, farming, and other
activities have followed the routes of the Belem-Brasilia and Transamazon Highways that roughly form
the E-W and N-S axes of the arc.
Conditions in the Southern Amazon are different from Roraima. The population of the municipalities
located in the Arc is approximately 1.8 million people, and includes significant urban areas (such as
Imperatriz, Maraba, Altamira, Ji Parana, Ariquemes and others), infrastructure, livestock, and other
valuable assets. The potential for environmental destruction, damage of property, and loss of life and
injury is much greater than in Roraima. The aftermath of catastrophic fires along the arc could
potentially be much more serious than in Roraima.
Although the population and installed infrastructure are considerably greater than in Roraima, the
readiness of society in the Southern Amazon to confront a major catastrophe is very limited. The seven
States along the Arc have rudimentary civil defense organizations, but virtually none of the
municipalities outside of the capital cities has any civil defense capacity.  The capital cities of each state
and some secondary cities have a Fire Company organized under the State Military Police. However,
these fire companies are trained and equipped exclusively to fight structural fires and not wildland fires.
There is a substantial military presence in the area, including army and air-force bases inside or close to
the Arc, and there are 14 airports within the Arc which have capacity for passengers, cargo and refueling.
In Roraima, the Army and Air Force provided important support in the form of transport, temporary
encampments with sleeping, eating and health facilities, as well as communications, transportation, and
logistical support. However, the military are not specifically trained or equipped for emergency
operations and for addressing the occurrence of multiple fire events across a wide area. Finally, there are
no agreed procedures and priorities in place that would be useful in allocating assets and resolving
conflicts. For example, in Roraima, there was some conflict because the army sought to control and
position firefighting resources in disagreement with the firefighters' own positions.
The Government of Brazil with support of the G-7 Pilot Program and the World Bank is working in the
Amazon region of Brazil to help conserve important environmental assets. The Pilot Program includes
projects aiming at improving natural resource management in all nine Amazonian States, as well as
projects to strengthen indigenous reserves, extractive reserves, and forest management. A "Fire and
Deforestation Control Project," (PRODESQUE) is under preparation under the G-7 Pilot Program. This
five-year project planned for US$30 million would assist both federal and state environmental agencies
in the Amazon region to develop and implement a unified surveillance system for monitoring
deforestation, burning and forest degradation. It would also strengthen local capacity to control illegal
deforestation and burning. The project would focus on priority areas selected by the states under the
Natural Resources Policy Project (NRPP). It would also support training and acquisition of equipment
for surveillance and enforcement. While PRODESQUE would focus on long-term monitoring and
enforcement goals, the proposed project would address urgent issues caused by the current emergency.
The lessons learned from the proposed project would be incorporated into PRODESQUE.
2. Project developnment objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
The development objectives of the proposed project are to prevent and control large-scale wildfires in the
southern part of the Brazilian Amazon during the dry season of 1998 and to generate lessons regarding
forest fire prevention and suppression techniques, through (i) risk assessment activities; (ii) fire
prevention, primarily through community mobilization and training; (iii) strengthening of emergency
coordination at federal, state and municipal levels; (iv) building capacity for fire suppression; (v) and
monitoring and evaluation.



Page 4
This emergency project, scheduled to begin in September 1998, would assist both federal and state
environmental agencies in the Amazon to implement an education and public awareness campaign,
provide fire prevention and control training, and establish a rapid response task force to combat major
fires, if and when they occur. The project would focus on high-risk areas identified by weather data,
modeling and satellite imagery. In addition, for the medium-term, the project would support
strengthening Federal, State and Municipal emergency preparedness through the Civil Defense system
and relevant institutions.
Key performance indicators are:
* Reliable fire risk-assessment models created and in place;
* Alert system in place with timely dissemination of relevant information to decision makers;
* Clear priorities established for target areas/populations;
* Operating Agreements (convMnios) among relevant Federal agencies, as well as between Federal and
State agencies signed;
* Emergency fire enforcement campaign in place;
* 120,000 farmers, ranchers, farm workers trained in controlled burning;
* Public inforrnation and community outreach program in place;
* State and municipal fire-brigades created, trained, equipped;
*  Emergency control center established and functioning 24-hours during high fire-risk periods;
* Project monitoring and evaluation system in place based on indicators of inputs, outputs and impacts;
* All information regarding project activities, including equipment procurement and distribution,
disseminated in a timely and transparent manner;
* Advisory Group established and operational;
* Communications consultant hired;
* Green Line established, operational and staffed with trained personnel;
* Enforcement teams established and operational;
* COMDECs, CEDECs, Conservation and Indigenous Areas Fire Brigades established, trained,
equipped and operational;
* Participating Military entities in response ready condition.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16582-BR           Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998.
The project is consistent with the CAS for Brazil which identifies natural resource conservation as a key
objective of the Bank's assistance for Brazil. The CAS emphasizes the importance of reduced
deforestation rates, improved enforcement of environmental regulations and decentralization.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector issues are:
* Uncontrolled logging occurs on a large scale in the Amazon and comprehensive forest management
systems are rare;
* Large foreign (mainly Asian) logging companies have arrived in the Amazon to take advantage of the
world's last and largest old-growth tropical forests;
* Fire is used throughout the Amazon as a tool to clear fields and renew grazing lands. These fires
often escape to neighboring fields and forests;
* Logged forests are especially fire-prone, and logging roads with debris make a pathway for fires;



Page 5
*  The occurrence of accidental wildfires is becoming common in dry years, including sub-canopy
forest fires;
*  Sub-canopy burning also increases the likelihood that forests will catch fire again in subsequent
years;
*  Landless rural people continue to be settled in inappropriate areas in the Amazon;
*  Some Amazonian states are promoting soybeans as a model for development, which will probably
result in more deforestation.
Government strategy is moving towards adopting environmentally friendly policies for sustainable
development. They include:
*  The "Green Protocol" initiative, requiring lending agencies to incorporate environmental
considerations into the projects they finance;
*  Environmental Crimes Law (February, 1998) allowing criminal charges and penalties to be brought
against environmental violators;
*  Presidential Decree n. 2.662, (July 8, 1998) 1) gives power to SEPRE to declare state of emergency
in States and Municipalities within the Amazon region where climatic and/or vegetation conditions
could arise leading to potential fires; 2) establishes PROARCO; and 3) creates a Federal Task Force
to coordinate fire suppression activities;
*  Increased enforcement of environmental legislation in the Amazon region;
*  Commitment to place around 10% area of Amazon forests under effective protection by the year
2000;
*  Presidential Provisional Decree n. 1.511, (July 25, 1996), raising the amount of private land parcels
to be maintained in "legal forest reserves" on private holdings in the Amazon from 50% to 80%;
*  Presidential Provisional Decree n. 1.963, (July 25, 1996), declaring a temporary ban on extraction of
mahogany from Amazon forests;
*  The ICMS Verde (or "Green VAT") initiatives, under which some states reallocate value-added tax
transfers as a function of municipal improvements in water quality and land protection;
*  Ratification of Agenda 21 at the National level and adoption of Agenda 21 principles for the
Amazon;
*  Ratification of the Convention on Biodiversity;
*  Improvements in the management of federal and state protected areas;
*  Special programs with intemational financing for environmental programs such as the G7 Pilot
Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest, the Rond6nia Natural Resources Management
Project (PLANAFLORO) and the Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project
(PRODEAGRO);
*  Promoting the gradual devolution of environmental management to the states and municipalities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would focus specifically on preventing and controlling wildfires in the Amazon
forests in order to protect human life, infrastructure, biodiversity and watersheds, particularly in the
southern part of the region.
The project strategy is to:
*  Focus on priority areas identified as being at high risk to fires;
*  Support a decentralized, participatory approach to social mobilization. The project would support
GTA, using its networks in the field to convey the importance of fire prevention to local
populations, and to organize, train and equip voluntary brigades;
*  Support creation and organization of a Strategic Nucleus to rapidly and effectively respond to civil
emergencies;
*  Support close collaboration between public sector agencies and other stakeholders at all levels.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown).
Component               Categorv    Total Cost*   % of     Bank-      % of
(US$M)   Total*  financing*   Bank-
__(US$M)  financing
(1) Risk Assessment and         Technical          0.5       3        0.5       100
Monitoring of Critical Areas    Assistance
(2) Forest Fire Prevention      Technical          7.0      35        5.5        80
Assistance
(3) Forest Fire Suppression     Technical          8.6      43        5.8        65
Assistance &
Institutional
Strengthening
(4) Project Coordination,       Project            2.2      11        2.0        90
Monitoring and Evaluation, and  Management
Studies
Unallocated                     Technical          1.7       8        1.2        70
Assistance
Total         20.0     100       15.0        75
* For proposed Loan only - excludes supportfrom RFT/PPG- 7 ($2. 0 million)
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
As indicated above, the Brazilian government has been moving towards greater control over settlement
and the use of land and natural resources in the Amazon region. The proposed project would add to these
efforts by strengthening environmental enforcement, improving monitoring and information flow on
deforestation and burning, and raising consciousness locally and nationally concerning the dangers of
uncontrolled settlement and use of natural resources. In addition, a Presidential Decree signed July 8,
1998 allows SEPRE to declare state of emergency in States and Municipalities within the Amazon region
when unique climatic and/or vegetation conditions arise.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of this project are expected to be environmental, institutional and social, including:
*  Reduced occurrence of large-scale fires and the potential economic and social (health) losses to
residents of the Amazon;
*  Enhanced protection of the Amazon rain forest and the environmental services it provides;
*  Improved knowledge of how to prevent fire escapes in this region;
*  Sustainable partnerships among federal, state and civil society organizations in an emergency setting;
*  Development of a system of rapid response to fires which could be used in future emergencies,
including other recurrent natural disasters and accidents.



Page 7
The direct target populations (and potential benefits) of this project are:
* Rural populations living along the Deforestation Arc (minimization of economic and social losses
due to fires);
* Urban population of the Amazon (avoidance of airport closures and reduction/avoidance of
respiratory problems; avoidance of water pollution of water supplies);
* State and regional electric power generation and distribution companies and their users (protection of
power transmission lines and other infrastructure);
* Indigenous peoples (avoidance of habitat, game, and cultural values losses).
* Society in general (avoidance of biodiversity loss);
4. Institutional and imDlementation arrangements (see Annex 2):
Overall coordination of the project would reside in IBAMA/DIRCOF. IBAMA would provide day-to-
day management, supervision, and financial management, and would coordinate links to state and
municipal governments, SEPRE, MMA, the Bank, UNDP and other institutions. SEPRE would act as
secretariat to the Federal Task Force and coordinate the activities of the CBMDF, the Brazilian Army and
the Brazilian Air Force.
IBAMA would set up a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) satisfactory to the Bank with appropriately
qualified staff in adequate numbers, drawn from IBAMA's own staff and contracted externally.
Federal Emergency Management
Emergency coordination at a national level is managed by SEPRE. The National Civil Defense
Organization (SINDEC), a part of SEPRE, would coordinate a Federal Task Force which includes the
Army, Air Force, a Task Force consisting of about 500 fire fighters from the Federal District Military
Fire Department (CBMDF) and, if needed, selected State-level fire Departments with specialized training
in wildland fires.
State Level Organizations
Each of the seven States in the Deforestation Arc would establish an Emergency Task Force created by
decree by the State Governor, and prepare a State Action Plan. The Federal Civil Defense Agency will
provide training in civil defense preparedness to seven State Civil Defense Organizations (CEDECs).
The professional fire companies in each State will take on wildfire-fighting responsibilities in their State
and will help train and equip municipal fire brigades.
Municipal Level Organizations
The Federal Civil Defense Agency would train and help establish at least 40 Municipal Civil Defense
Committees (COMDECs) which would be responsible for developing Municipal Fire Brigades in
selected municipalities within the Deforestation Arc chosen on a basis of fire risk.
D: Project Rationale/Justification:
The project is justified in that:
* The greater Amazon River basin is the world's richest repository of biodiversity and is currently
under serious threat from fires;
* The Deforestation Arc is highly vulnerable to widespread fires during the 1998 dry season due to the
climatic phenomenon El Nifio;



Page 8
*  Capacity to control the spread of fires in the region is weak, as illustrated by the Roraima fires of
February-March, 1998;
*  Potential economic, social, and environmental losses from widespread forest fires are enormous and
much larger than the proposed project cost.
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for reiection:
The project team considered the option of a long-term project (as fires are a recurrent problem), focusing
on institutional strengthening, capacity building and training activities. This alternative was rejected
because the longer time frame needed for project preparation, implementation and the procurement of
goods and services would not meet the needs of the impending emergency during the 1998 dry season.
The project does, however, allow for longer-tern studies to be initiated.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned).
Sector issue                  Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
*  Strengthening of main              Brazil - National         S                 S
environmental institutions, and  Environmental Project
development of the legal and           FY'90
regulatory framework.
*  Help reduce the loss of human life  Bolivia- El Nifno      under             under
and deterioration of living standards  Emergency Assistance  implementation    implementation
that may result from the floods        Project
and/or droughts; and                  FY' 1998
* Assist in the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of infrastructure
facilities damaged by floods.
*  Rehabilitation and repair of       Brazil- Rio Flood         S                 S
infrastructure damaged by the floods   Reconstruction and
and prevent potential damage major    Prevention Project
rains.                                 FY' 1988
*  Environmental Institutional        Brazil - Rondonia         S                 S
Strengthening and Capacity Building    Natural Resources
Management Project
(PLANAFLORO)
FY' 92
*  Promoting the development and      Brazil-Rain Forest        S                HS
dissemination of environmentally,   Pilot Program,
economically and socially           Demonstrative
sustainable natural resources       Projects (PDA)
management and conservation
systems by local communities in the
Amazon.
*  Strengthen the policy analysis,    Brazil-Rain Forest   Not available     Not available
regulatory and implementation       Pilot Program,
capacity of state level Amazonian  Natural Resources



Page 9
environmental agencies             Policy Project (NRPP)
Other development agencies
E  Strengthening Civil Society           Brazil-National     N/A               N/A
Environmental Fund
(IBD)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory) S (Satisfactory)U (Unsatisfactory) HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from previous experience indicate that the rapidity of response and a simple, focused strategy
with few add-on components is critical. Likewise, an ongoing process of training in preparedness for
forest fires has been identified as a critical step in building the basis to counterattack future disasters.
International experience (such as the fires in Indonesia, Mexico, California, and Central America), has
yielded valuable lessons which have been considered in project design. These lessons concern the
effectiveness, reliability and availability of equipment; fire-fighting strategies and action plans; inter-
agency arrangements; successful fire prevention measures; monitoring systems; training, educational and
publicity campaigns; adequate exchange and dissemination of information, etc.
It is expected also that the project would generate sufficient information that would contribute to the
capacity to prevent and control future fires. In addition, experience illustrates that effective project
implementation requires a strong coordinating agency with clear authority and legitimacy. The proposed
project takes this into account.
Some lessons were learned from the experiences of the firefighters trained in the PREVFOGO program
to combat wildfires. Some of the firefighters who went to Roraima from other states commented on: (a)
delays in deployment which allowed small fires to develop into big ones; (b) small number of firefighters
that have wildland and forest fire training and experience; (c) lack of sufficient hand tools appropriate to
tropical forest conditions; (d) inadequate air-support for firefighters on the ground; (e) lack of
constructive evaluation of firefighter performance in meeting objectives; and (f) lack of adequate
communications systems. Lessons derived from the forest fires in Roraima have been incorporated into
the project design, such as the significance of (a) early detection systems; (b) rapid mobilization of
trained personnel; (c) timely delivery of appropriate equipment; (d) adequate communications systems;
(e) monitoring and evaluation of project activities and timely dissemination of such information; and (f)
effective inter-agency coordination.
Additional important lessons learned from Bank-financed projects in Brazil and elsewhere include:
*  environmental management improvements are best achieved through partnerships between federal,
state and local levels and through private/public sector collaboration;
*  top-down generic institution-building is not effective unless tied to concrete commitments and
results;
*  education and training campaigns must address concrete issues and be tailored to local conditions
and culture;
*  public disclosure and dissemination (especially of violations and violators) is key to encouraging
compliance with fire/environmental regulations.
Project design embodies the following features learned from past project experiences:
* the project would decentralize coordination from IBAMA's headquarters to the states, allowing
transparency and local stakeholders to influence the project through local participation mechanisms;



Page 10
* local stakeholders would partially absorb costs and risks, and in turn receive the potential benefits
from the project, underlining the local ownership of the project;
*  an ongoing process for monitoring and evaluating results would be incorporated into the project
design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
Indicators of project ownership and commitment have been:
*  GOB has made this project a high priority and has approved the request of international support on a
priority basis in response to the lessons learned in Roraima;
*  Effective mobilization by participating agencies to prepare for a possible emergency situation;
*  Strong response to environmental projects at the local level, specifically PDA, PED, FNMA,
PROBIO.
5. Value added of Bank support to this project:
Bank involvement in this project would add value in the following areas and ways:
*  Bank global experience with technical assistance projects;
*  Bank access to worldwide environmental information and experience and its capacity to mobilize
resources;
3  Bank experience with promoting decentralized environmental management in Brazil;
*  Bank recent experience in assisting other countries address emergency situations.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis : N/A [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: N/A
A formal economic analysis has not been undertaken. However a very preliminary exercise indicates that
the costs of this project are far lower than the potential costs of catastrophic fires (Annex 4). The actual
benefits from the project depend on two imponderables: the extent to which actual wildland fires break
out in the region, and (b) the effectiveness of the project in helping to control these fires. However, it
would appear that the potential benefit in foregone losses is a multiple of the proposed project cost. The
additional benefits of strengthening emergency preparedness capacity in Brazil have not been estimated,
but they are potentially substantial.
2. Financial (see Annex 5).
The financial management system to be implemented before project effectiveness at IBAMA will be
adapted from the systems currently being used by other Bank-financed projects within MMA. This
system is structured to provide planning, monitoring and expenditure control. This system has
demonstrated its capacity to maintain adequate accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems to
ensure the provision of accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures to
project management, auditors and the Bank. Similar systems have been operating in other Bank-
supported projects for at least 2 years.



Page 11
3. Technical.
IBAMA, Civil Defense, Armed Forces, and several State Fire Companies have trained personnel that
possess a substantial degree of technical know-how and first-hand experience in forest fire fighting. The
National Forest Fires Prevention and Combat System (PREVFOGO), created in 1989 under the auspices
of IBAMA, has acquired technical skills in monitoring, education and training, rural extension, and
research. This program aims at prevention, detection and suppression of wildland fires, especially in
federal conservation units. The Roraima fire event of 1998 contributed to building the technical capacity
of involved agencies in relation to fire-fighting equipment, deployment of brigades, and patterns and
methods to combat tropical forest combustion.
4. Institutional
Executing agencies:
The primary executing agency would be IBAMA where the PCU would be established. IBAMA would
collaborate with the Secretariat for Regional Affairs in the Ministry of Planning where the Federal Civil
Defense system is located. It would also establish specific linkages with each State in the Deforestation
Arc and with SEPRE. See Annex 2 for more details on the Institutional Arrangements.
Project Management:
IBAMA is already involved in the implementation of several World Bank supported projects, including
the Conservation Units component of the National Environmental Project, and the Extractive Reserves
Project under the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest (PP-G7). IBAMA has temporarily
borrowed staff members from the Bank-supported National Environmental Project (MMA), and is in the
process of adapting procedural manuals for procurement and financial management developed for that
project. Further, the President of IBAMA signed an order (Portaria No. 101/98N., of July 14, 1998)
establishing a Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be set up at IBAMA's Headquarters in Brasilia with
qualified staff, drawn from IBAMA' s staff and contracted externally. As established in the Portaria, the
PCU would report to the Control and Enforcement Directorate (DIRCOF) and would be supervised by
IBAMA's President. The PCU would be responsible for procurement of works, goods, equipment and
consulting services. The PCU would consist of the following staff: (a) Project Manager; (b) Deputy
Project Manager and Chief of Staff; (c) Financial Manager; (d) Procurement Officer; (e) Inter-
Institutional Relations Manager; (f) Community Relations Coordinator; (g) Risk Analysis and
Monitoring Coordinator; (h) Fire Prevention Coordinator; (i) Fire Suppression Coordinator; and support
staff as needed. IBAMA would provide adequate office space, telephones, support services,
microcomputers, printers, fax, copying machines, office materials and maintenance.
IBAMA would establish a separate project performance monitoring procedure for monitoring project
indicators and performance targets.



Page 12
Project Oversight
An Advisory Group would be established and sustained throughout the life of the project. This Advisory
Group would be comprised of representatives of MMA, MPO, the Northern Chapter of the Brazilian
Association of Environmental Entities (ABEM4 - Zona Norte), and a NGO based in the Legal Amazon.
The primary responsibilities of said Group would be to provide policy and technical recommendations
for the Project and to monitor Project implementation. The Group would have full access to all records
and data pertaining to the Project and would promptly provide the minutes of each meeting to the Bank.
For further information regarding Project Management, see Annex 2.
5. Social:
The project would rely on existing social capital, particularly in regard to fire prevention and
suppression. The project would seek to strengthen and build on existing systems of social control at the
community level to prevent irresponsible burning and consequent fire escapes during the coming dry
season. It would also rely on knowledge and ideas that already exist in Amazon communities on how to
burn safely. The fire prevention campaign would encourage farmers and ranchers to join together to
assist in the burning of fields to prevent fire escapes. The publicity campaign would stress the
importance of relying on neighbors and the need to avoid damaging neighbors' fields and the surrounding
forests. As indicated above, NGOs and existing associations would help to form community fire brigades
that would be trained and equipped to control small and intermediate fires before they develop into large,
uncontrollable fires.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     []A   [X] B   []C
The project would be implemented in the Brazilian Amazon region, where the natural environment
consists of humid tropical forest, growing on relatively fragile tropical soils, with many small, medium
and large watercourses and natural lakes. The Risk Analysis conducted to date shows that the most
vulnerable areas are those where there has already been significant anthropic disturbance, through
clearing, burning, pasture formation, roads and other infrastructure, urban development, and selective
logging. There are still vast, relatively undisturbed, undegraded habitats in the region but most of these
are fairly secure from burning because they are inaccessible and relatively fireproof.
The main thrust of this project would be to prevent or abate environmental damage resulting from
uncontrolled forest fires. However, the project has the potential to cause relatively small, localized
environmental impacts (possibly in Indigenous Areas), such as in the clearing of firebreaks; clearing of
areas for air-and ground-support operations; use of backfires; and transport and storage of fuel. Since
there is insufficient time (due to the emergency nature of the project) to conduct a thorough Impact
Assessment of specific potential impacts, project activities that have potentially negative environmental
impacts would be identified during Appraisal. Procedures acceptable to the Bank to address these
impacts would then be incorporated into the early stages of the project.



Page 13
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable l.
Participatory approach        Identification / Preparation   Implementation / Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups                               COL
Intermediary NGOs             IS + CON+COL                   COL
Academic Institutions         CON                            COL
Private Sector                IS + CON                       COL
Local governments                                            IS + CON + COL
State Environmental Agencies    IS + CON                     IS + COL
Local Communities                                            COL
Other donors                  IS + CON+COL                   COL
(IS, Information Sharing; CON, Consultation; COL, Collaboration)
Participation in project preparation:
The Amazon Research Institute (IPAM), of Belem do Para, participated in project preparation, especially
in preparation of the Arc Map and risk analysis model. GTA (a coalition of more than 200 NGOs from
the Amazon region) participated in the design of the prevention component.
During implementation/operation:
GTA and its affiliate NGOs would help implement the community mobilization and training campaign.
In addition, Municipal Civil Defense Committees (COMDECs) would help implement the local fire
prevention and suppression activities. Community members would also participate in fire prevention
activities, particularly in community burnings.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability.
i) Financial: Investment costs in fire prevention activities are low in comparison to the high potential
losses from wildfires. As a result, agencies at all levels of government would be likely to continue to
support these efforts in the longer term to minimize costs associated with fires.
ii) Political/Institutional: The emergency response task forces and mechanisms implemented under this
project would be adaptable to other types of emergencies as well. Thus, federal and state agencies
would be likely to maintain the emergency response infrastructure to better coordinate future fire and
non-fire efforts.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of institutional ownership/ participation  S        Transparency in project design and
by states and municipalities, NGO's and private         implementation and early
sector                                                   integration and consultation and
transfer of some resources to states
and municipalities, NGO's and the
private sector would enhance
project ownership and encourage
consistent participation.
Local communities and dwellers (landowners,     M        Early involvement and consultation
farmers, miners, etc.) fail to cooperate and            with potentially affected
partake in the training and prevention activities.      communities. Clear definition of



Page 14
training and educational programs
and of the potential benefits derived
from-their participation. The early
establishment of local brigades
would develop a communal sense to
care for their resources.
Large fires overwhelm the capacity of               S         Minimize the likelihood that large
institutions to adequately respond                            fires would occur. Develop
contingency plans including large
scale participation of the private
sector and armed forces to address
priority areas.
Competition over the allocation of resources        S         Timely transparent dissemination
among executing agencies.                                     of criteria determining allocation
of equipment and financial
resources.
Lack of operational procedures in how to deal       M         Development and dissemination of
with emergency situations.                                    emergency operational procedures
to stakeholders, task-force leaders,
Overll_isk_atig_ states and municipalities.
Overall_Risk Ratingr       S         ______________
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
In the event of multiple, large-scale fires, difficult decisions may have to be made regarding the areas that
would receive priority. As a result, there is potential for conflict among states and municipalities
demanding limited resources. In addition, domestic and international concern for indigenous groups
living in the Deforestation Arc may increase as a result of the prioritization activities in multiple fire
situations. The project is designed to mitigate these controversies by basing deployment decisions on the
objective criteria and risk assessment activities outlined in Component 1. The technical criteria for each
decision should be fully transparent.
The potential for controversy may also exist between public support in urban areas for the suppression of
traditional agricultural practices in the region. Public information and education campaigns included in
Component 2 are designed to minimize such conflicts.



Page 15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Emergency Situations declared in at least twenty priority Municipalities, there being one priority
Municipality for which such declaration has been issued in each of the seven States;
* Implementation Agreement between MMA and IBAMA effective;
* SEPRE/MPO Agreement effective;
* Operating Agreements satisfactory to the Bank signed between IBAMA and INPE and FUNAI; and
between SEPRE and the Army, Air Force, and CBMDF;
* Participation Agreements between IBAMA and each Participating State and at least twenty Priority
Municipalities effective;
* State Action Plans encompassing at least fifty percent of the Deforestation Arc received by the Bank;
* At least four CEDECs established;
* PCU established with key staff appointed;
*  Annual Operating Plan for the first year of Project implementation approved by the Bank;
* Operational Manual furnished to the Bank;
* Financial management system satisfactory to the Bank in place.
2. Conditions of disbursement:
Special Account Open.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]            gn ure]
Task Team Leader: Daniel Gross & Ricardo Tarifa
[signature]                                        JI- -</t<-_
Sector Mana er/Acting Director: Thomas B. Wiens
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: G bind T. Nankani



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Narrative Summary           Key Performance          Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Fire damage to forests and    Field reports, data  Fires are able to be
Natural resources and      ecosystems in the Amazon    gathered on forest   prevented and controlled
ecosystems preserved and    Deforestation Arc is     fires, project progress  given adequate
managed in a sustainable  minimized during the 1998   reports               deployment of
fashion.                  dry season                                       equipment, social
mobilization, and
institutional
coordination
Project Development
Objective:
Digital information is
Prevent and/or control     1. Local settlers are     Digital maps, forest    disseminated in a clear
large-scale wildfires in the    equipped and trained in  fire data and field  and timely fashion to
Brazilian Amazon during   controlled burning         reports               decision makers.
the dry season of 1998;   techniques, fire preventive
generate lessons to ensure    measures educated on the    Project monitoring  Civil society participates
conditions are created to  current risks of forest fires   reports, monthly  in educational and
prevent large fires in the  due to the atypical dry  progress and          training campaigns.
mid-term.                 conditions in 1998.        disbursement Reports
2. Fire suppression units                       Distribution mechanisms
equipped and trained and                        in place to deliver fire-
prepared at a local, state and                  fighting equipment to
federal level.                                  reach local communities,
3. Fire risk and                                municipalities, states
meteorological data                             and the federal task
delivered in a clear and                        force in a timely fashion
timely fashion to decision                      before the outbreak of
makers at all levels.                           fires.
IBAMA collaborates
with states,
municipalities and other
government agencies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 17
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Outputs:
1.1 Data and maps on forest  1.1 Risk, weather,        1.1 INPE's Maps and   1. Information is
fire risks, and hot spots is    deforestation and fire maps   data regarding fire  delivered in a timely and
identified, monitored and  cieated, and disseminated as  risks, field tests to  clear fashion.
assessed by decision       of 9/98;                    analyze the
makers.                    1.2 Field testing of maps   availability,         2. Equipment is
carried out as of 9/98;    timeliness, accuracy    delivered to local
2. Regulations on fire     1.3 decision model          and relevance of      communities,
burning in risk areas is   operational as of 9/98.     information.          municipalities in a
enforced; publicity and                                1.2 receipts of risk  timely fashion; training,
educational campaign is    2.1 enforcement teams       maps and weather      educational and
carried out.               deployed to detected hot    forecasts by state and   publicity campaigns are
spots.                     municipal and state    created and communities
2.1 Situation rooms created   2.2 operational manuals  fire departments/civil   participate proactively in
in IBAMA and SEPRE;        created, and situation room    defense.           controlled burning
local and municipal fire   in SEPRE fully staffed,                           practices. Situation
brigades are trained and   equipped and operational as  2.1 Evaluation of    room is implemented
equipped. Educational and    of 9/98;                 information flow       and operational.
publicity campaign carried    2.3 communication        from/to the situation
out throughout the Arc of    networks established in   room.                 3. Equipment is
deforestation.             states and municipalities                         delivered and training is
along the Arc as of 9/98;  2.2 Reports and        carried out in a timely
3. State fire departments are  2.4 local and municipal  receipts of delivery of  fashion to address
trained and equipped;      brigades are trained on fire   equipment and      escaped fires.
IBAMA's enforcement units  prevention techniques and    educational materials
equipped and prepared;     equipped (hand tools,      to states and          4. PCU members
federal task force is      protective gear, radios etc.)   municipalities.   effectively coordinate
equipped and operational;   from 9/98 to 12/98.                              the project. Studies and
Forest fire suppression    2.5 brochures on controlled   2.3 Evaluation of the    project evaluations are
activities implemented.    burnings and posters, TV    frequency and         carried out and the
and radio spots, etc.      availability of the   lessons incorporated in
4. Project management unit  distributed as of 9/98.    publicity campaign in  the project.
operational.                                          remote areas in the
3.1 State fire departments    amazon.
trained and equipped (fire
fighting and protective    2.4 IBAMA's
equipment) for wild-land   summons, licenses,
fires;                     fines and reports on
3.2 Federal task force     enforcement.
established and equipped
(including SINDEC,         2.5. receipts of fire
CBMDF, Army, Air Force);  reports by state fire
an operational manual      departments/OEMAs
would be developed for the
task force
3.1 Assessment of
4.1 Creation of an PCU with  information flow
qualified staff during the  between local, state     .-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 18
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
I duration of the project;   and federal task force;
4.2 Implement project       receipts of delivery of
monitoring unit to assess   equipment.
project performance;
4.3 Undertake specific      4. Disbursement,
studies related to the lessons  financial and
learned on how to better    procurement reports.
manage the increasing risk
of fires in the mid-term.
Project Components:
1. Assess the risk of forest    1. Maps developed  1. Communication links
1. Risk Assessment and      fires using satellite-based  and distributed to    are in place and capable
Fire Monitoring             and other detection systems.  users and decision    of delivering
(US$ 0.5 million)           makers; operational    information to end users.
2. Fire Prevention                                      manuals are created
2. Mobilize and train and   and distributed to end   2. Qualified trainers
3. Fire Suppression         equip communities to        users.                 available to reach
practice controlled burning                        Amazon communities
4. Project Coordination,    and prevent forest fires;   2. fire prevention
Monitoring & Evaluation     undertake a publicity and   training courses are   3. Fires are prevented
educational campaign        carried out;           and kept under control
illustrating the dangers of    educational campaign   before they reach a large
large scale fires due to El    reaches the Amazon  size.
Nino; establish a situation  population; Municipal
room in SEPRE.              and State fire brigades  4. Qualified personnel
(US$ 7.0 million)           are trained and        available to manage the
equipped.              project full time with
3. Strengthen the capacity to                      adequate conditions and
suppress forest fires by    3. federal task force is  autonomy.
training and equipping state  equipped and a
fire departments and the    situation room to
Federal Task Force.         activate the task force
(US$ 8.6 million)          is fully operational
4. Establish the PCU, and   4. PCU established
monitor and learn how       and operational.
better to manage the        Consultants are hired
increasing risk of forest  to carry out project
fires in the region. (US$ 2.2   monitoring.
million)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 19
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 2
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon Project Description
Project Components and Activities
The Emergency Loan would support the strengthening of federal, state and local fire prevention agencies, community
outreach and training activities, and the procurement of appropriate fire prevention and suppression technology through
the following components:
I. Risk Assessment And Fire Monitoring: Under this component, the federal government, in conjunction with qualified
NGOs, would use appropriate technology and methods for assessing fire risk in the Arc through the integration of soil
moisture maps, forest type maps, and human activity maps. These data, combined with other information, will allow
decision-makers to assess which parts of the Arc are most at risk to forest fires to guide prevention and suppression
efforts and the allocation of resources to those efforts. In addition, this component would initiate studies and long-range
planning to identify and respond to such issues as the potential for increased flammability of burned areas in subsequent
years.
TI. Forest Fire Prevention: The objective of this component is to develop technical assistance and educational campaigns
for local communities and different stakeholders in high risk areas in order to provide guidance on the risks and
consequences of uncontrolled burning. The prevention activities, such as training in the controlled use of fire and public
awareness and education campaigns would be coordinated by IBAMA in partnership with local authorities and NGOs.
This component would also provide the risk-prone region with training and equipment to promptly address forest fires
and prevent them from burning out of control. Fire combat brigades at the local and municipal level would be constituted
and trained to address local fires and would call on State fire companies as needed in the event of uncontrollable
wildfires. In addition, under this component, IBAMA, through an intensified enforcement campaign in conjunction with
State Environmental Agencies and Forestry Police, would conduct intensive enforcement operations and compliance to
regulations would be increased in the Deforestation Arc as part of an integral system that would prevent and regulate
illegal burning activities.
III. Forest Fire Suppression: Contingency plans for the combat of forest fires as well as participation plans with other
government agencies and the private sector would be developed under this component. Major fires, beyond the control of
State Fire Companies, would be referred to the Federal Task Force, coordinated by the Strategic Nucleus. This Task
Force would be responsible for the acquisition and distribution of fire-fighting equipment and provision of training to
state and local fire brigades and coordinating simultaneous fire-fighting efforts in different regions. It would maintain a
"situation room" on a 24-hour alert during the burning season and would be supported by similar State coordinating
bodies. The Strategic Nucleus would be comprised of representatives of MMA, SEPRE, Air Force, Army and CBMDF.
IV. Project Coordination, Monitoring & Evaluation, and Studies: Under this component, a project coordinating unit
(PCU) composed of a multidisciplinary team would be established to manage, monitor and evaluate the day-to-day
implementation of the project. This component would also serve as the platform for studies and pilot activities aimed at
improving emergency response capacity, developing classifications of emergencies,.response hierarchies,
communications systems and contingency planning. In addition, this component would also support project monitoring
and evaluation activities.
While the project is designed primarily to assist Brazil's preparation for the risk of fire in the 1998 dry season in the
Southern Amazon, it will also contribute to longer-term strengthening of emergency preparedness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 20
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Overall coordination of the project would reside in IBAMA/DIRCOF. IBAMA would provide policy guidance and
coordinate links to state and local governments, MMA, the Bank, UNDP and other donors.
IBAMA would staff and equip the PCU with appropriately qualified personnel from IBAMA's own staff and contracted
externally (satisfactory to the Bank and donors). As established in the Portaria signed by IBAMA's President, the PCU
would be subordinated to the Control and Enforcement Directorate (DIRCOF) and would be supervised by the IBAMA's
presidency. The PCU would be responsible for procurement of works, goods, equipment and consulting services. The
PCU consist with the following staff: (a) Project Manager; (b) Deputy Project Manager and Chief of Staff; (c) Financial
Manager; (d) Procurement Officer; (e) Inter-Institutional Relations Manager; (f) Community Relations Coordinator; (g)
Risk Analysis and Monitoring Coordinator; (h) Fire Prevention Coordinator; (i) Fire Suppression Coordinator; and
support staff as needed. IBAMA would provide adequate office space, telephones, microcomputers, printers, fax,
copying machines, office materials and maintenance. IBAMA would establish an independent unit for monitoring project
indicators and performance targets.
Under the direction of the Project Manager and the Deputy Project Manager, the PCU would
*  Identify and hire qualified staff;
*  Prepare an Annual Operating Plan and obtain approval from the Bank;
*  Prepare and disseminate Operational Manuals for each activity and phase of the project;
*  Prepare timetables for each project deliverable (product);
*  Identify appropriate partners to carry out each activity and prepare and sign appropriate operating agreements with
adequate financial and operating controls;
*  Manage project funds and keep accounts;
a  Manage and/or supervise the procurement process for all goods and services;
*  Supervise sub-projects, contract and supervise consultants and manage relations with all executing agencies as well
as functional links with IBAMA/MMA, the Bank, other federal, state and municipal governments;
- Represent IBAMA and the Federal Government on Federal and Local deliberative and advisory bodies;
-  Report to IBAMA management and the Bank in an appropriate format at agreed intervals;
*  Monitor and evaluate all project activities and issue periodic reports in an agreed formnat;
*  Ensure transparency and full dissemination of every activity.
Strategic Nucleus. This unit's committee membership would include representatives of MMA, SEPRE/MPO, Army, Air
Force, and CBMDF. The unit would meet at least monthly (or as needed) to deal with regular business and emergencies.
The Committee would:
*  provide overall policy guidance for the project;
* review and coordinate State Action Plans;
* coordinate federal services in the States
* review and approve the Annual Operating Plan;
* ensure close inter-institutional collaboration and coordination;
* oversee the work of the PCU;
Project Oversight
An Advisory Group would be established and sustained throughout the life of the project. This Advisory Group would be
comprised of representatives of MMA, MPO, the Northern Chapter of the Brazilian Association of Environmental
Entities (ABEM4 - Zona Norte), and a NGO based in the Legal Amazon. The primary responsibilities of said Group
would be to provide policy and technical recommendations for the Project and to monitor Project implementation. The



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 21
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Group would have full access to all records and data pertaining to the Project and would promptly provide the minutes of
each meeting to the Bank.
State Fire Civil Defense Committees (CEDECs)
Each CEDEC would typically include the following agencies and representatives2:
* Governor/Executive Office
* Planning Secretariat
* State Forestry Police
* IBAMA-SUPES and PREVFOGO
* Health Secretariat
* Environment Secretariat
* FUNAI
* Public Safety/Military Police
* State Military Fire Department
- FNS
* Representatives from NGOs
- Private Sector representatives
Seven CEDECs, one for each State in the Arc, would be established by decree from the State Governor. A draft decree
would be provided by SINDEC/SEPRE to the States in order to expedite their formation.
CEDECs would be responsible for:
*  Planning and coordinating fire prevention and suppression activities;
*  Implementing a comprehensive public awareness campaign, including incentives to municipalities and communities
that participate in preparedness activities;
*  Ensuring that the Municipal Fire Committees, State Emergency Operations Centers, and Community Fire Brigades
meet Federal standards.
Municipal Level Organizations
State CEDECs with support from SINDEC/SEPRE/MPO would promote the establishment of Municipal Civil Defense
Committees (COMDECs) in the highest risk municipalities within the Deforestation Arc, composed of relevant
Municipal officials and NGO representatives, civil society organizations and the private sector. This council would serve
as the liaison between the individual municipalities and the state CEDEC.
Each Municipal Fire Council would produce a Municipal Action Plan appropriate to its needs within the guidelines laid
down by the Federal Government with the technical assistance of the State CEDEC, the Strategic Nucleus and SINDEC.
The Municipal Action Plan would be submitted to the State CEDEC and the Federal Government. Once approved, funds
would be released directly to the Municipalities or States. The Action Plan would:
*  Present a strategy for coordinating local fire prevention and suppression efforts;
*  Identify and recruit existing technical and human resources, including facilities and equipment that could be
leased or hired locally (e.g. tractors, trucks, shovels);
*  Determine the number of community fire brigades needed;
2 Some variation can be expected in view of local needs and capacity of organizations.



Proj ect Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 22
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
*  Present a detailed strategy for community education, mobilization and training based on local conditions;
* Identify and incorporate existing community groups, civil society organizations, government agencies and private
sector enterprises into all aspects of fire education, mobilization, and prevention;
*  Assign responsibility for daily reporting of fire situation to State Emergency Operations Center.
Community groups wishing to form Fire Brigades would meet the criteria established in the relevant Federal guidelines
and Municipal Action Plan (e.g. number of able-bodied volunteers, assessment of equipment needs, time frame of
activities). Resources, technical assistance and training manuals for equipping the Communify Fire Brigades would be
sent directly from IBAMA to the Municipalities.
Military Organizations
As in the case of the Roraima fires, the Brazilian Army and Air Force would be mobilized to combat major fires that are
not controllable by State Fire Companies. The Army would provide ground transportation, helicopter support for
transporting fire fighters and material, ground communications, field kitchens, field hospitals, and logistical support. The
Air Force would provide logistical support by transporting men and material to air strips located near fire suppression
sites, and provide helicopter transport for men and material. The military will not engage in actual fire combat.
Fires that bum beyond the capacity of municipal fire brigades will be suppressed by State Military Fire Companies,
linked to the State Military Police. Most States in the Arc have a single professional fire-fighting unit. The State of Para
has nine professional companies. Most of these Fire Companies are trained and experienced in the suppression of
structural fires, but not wildfires. Under the Project, State Fire Companies would receive specialized wildfire training
from members of the Fire Company of the Federal District (CBMDF) which has extensive training and experience in
wild fires. CBMDF will also form the nucleus of the Federal Task Force to be mobilized in the event of catastrophic
wildfires beyond the capacity of State Fire Companies to control. The Federal Task Force would be complemented, as
necessary, by members of the State Fire Companies from Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais and Parana,
all of which have specialized wildfire training, including training from the USDA Forest Service.
Non-Governmental Organizations
NGOs would be involved at all levels of project implementation. Technically oriented NGOs would provide technical
services and expertise for the Risk Assessment and the Fire Prevention Components.
Grass-roots NGOs, including the affiliates of GTA, would provide access to communities and participate directly in the
community mobilization, outreach and training aspects of the project under an operating agreement with IBAMA.
Indigenous Groups
Indigenous groups within the Deforestation Arc would be encouraged, through their associations, to form fire brigades
and would be included in the outreach, mobilization and training campaigns. FUNAI has made preliminary identification
of some nine Indigenous Reserves located with the Deforestation Arc that are at risk to burning. FUNAI would contact
all its Regional Administrators (ADRs) within the Deforestation Arc and encourage them to avail themselves of the
services and facilities offered by the project and to report any difficulties in accessing such services to a designated
official in Brasilia who would report such information to the project coordinator.



Annex 3
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Component                                        Local          Foreign       Total
-------------------US $ million--------------------
Risk Assessment and Monitoring of Critical Areas             0.4             0           0.4
Forest Fire Prevention                                       6.3             .6          6.9
Forest Fire Suppression                                      6.7             1.8         8.5
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, and         2.0             0.1         2.1
Studies
Unallocated                                                   1.7            0           1.7
TOTAL                                                        17.1            2.5        19.6
TOTAL BASELINE COST
Physical Contingencies                                      0.0            0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                         .4             0.0          .4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                          17.5             2.5        20.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 24
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 4
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Estimated Losses from Catastrophic Fire Escapes for 1998
Nb. These estimates are based on a number of "heroic" assumptions. The estimated financial cost of economic losses in
Roraima were extrapolated to the Deforestation Arc by multiplying by a factor of five as an estimate of the extent of
potential damage, taking into consideration the higher population density, the more dense urban network, greater amounts
of cattle and pasture, etc. in the arc. A number of potential losses were not considered for lack of any basis for
estimation. These include loss of power generation capacity due to erosion provoked by burning in watersheds, costs of
emergency relief to displaced persons3, costs for lost and damaged (public and private) infrastructure, losses to
agriculture, losses of genetic material (biodiversity), losses to mining operations, losses to extractive producers (baba,u,
Brazil nuts, natural rubber), tourism losses (including in areas remote from actual fires due to drifting smoke), losses to
commerce and tax losses.
Type of Loss                Unit            Unit      Esti-   Estimated Cost
Value    mated         (USD)
(USD)   Number
of Units
Revenues lost to power       Occurrence         37,704       235         8,860,440
companies from damaged
power lines
Revenue Loss to Airlines   Airport Hours Closed   2,173      2,100        4,565,217
from Airport Closures
Lost Income to Airline     Passenger Days           54   315,000         1,710,000
Passengers Unable to
Travel
Health-Care Costs to SUS    Patients Requiring     18.25     8,280          151,110
from Excess Respiratory    Hospital or Clinic
Distress Cases            Treatment
production lost to        Person-days             20     8,280          165,600
respiratory disease
Loss of commercial wood    Ha. of commercially     8,000   100,000       80,000,000
resources            valuable timber
accidentally burned
Loss of Pasture        Ha. of productive      1,000   200,000       20,000,000
pasture accidentally
burned
Direct Livestock Losses     Head of Cattle          600    10,000        6,000,000
TOTAL                                                          $130,312,000
3 The Federal Government set aside R$28 million in relief assistance for the State of Roraima which works out to some
US $100/capita.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 25
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 5
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Financial Summary
The financial management system to be implemented before project effectiveness at IBAMA will be adapted from the
systems currently being used by other Bank-financed projects within MMA. This system is structured to provide
planning, monitoring and expenditure control. This system has demonstrated its capacity to maintain adequate
accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems to ensure the provision of accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures to project management, auditors and the Bank. Similar systems have been operating in
other Bank projects for at least 2 years.
Organizational Chart
Project Coordinator
Financial Management Unit
Financial Manager
Financial Assistant    | Physical/Financial Assistant
Financial Management Unit Function
The PCU at IBAMA would include a financial management unit headed by a financial manager. The unit would be
responsible for instructing and supporting other executing agencies on financial management budget and expenditure
control. An operational manual is being prepared by the project management unit, setting out operational procedures,
auditing requirements, the responsibility of the executing agencies and all other financial aspects of project
implementation. The executing agencies would report to the Project Coordinator and would be supervised by the
Technical Management Unit. They would work based on the Annual Operating Plan (POA), which would describe the
main elements of the project executing process. The financial management unit would produce accounting and
monitoring reports monthly so that adjustments can be made promptly, if needed.
Financial Management Unit - Staffing
* A Financial Manager would report directly to the project manager. He would coordinate the unit and support the
executing agencies on the implementation of monitoring mechanisms and financial procedures. He would ensure that
the Project Coordinator is provided with timely accounting and monitoring reports to facilitate project
implementation and monitoring.
* The Financial Assistant would assist the financial manager in all financial aspects of the project. He/She would be
responsible for disbursements, would prepare Statements of Expenditures - SOE, and would generate accounting
reports in accordance with international accounting standards, ensuring that they are accurate and timely.
4These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of alternative project
designs or international standards.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 26
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
* The Physical/Financial Monitoring Assistant would assist the financial manager and would be responsible for
controlling and monitoring the physical/financial tasks described in the Annual Operating Plan (POA) for each of the
executing agencies of PROARCO.
It was agreed with the PCU that all financial staff would be college-educated accountants and they would be trained by a
financial manager who has substantial experience with the Bank projects. It was also agreed with the PCU that the
financial assistant and the physical financial assistant would be in place prior to loan effectiveness. The implementing
units of each project executing agency would also include a qualified financial assistant who would be responsible for
providing all project financial information to the management unit.
Accounting System and Procedures
The accounting system would be based on a specific chart of accounts for this project in accordance with the categories
described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). This system would produce accounting reports reflecting project
components defined in the PAD. The system would basically consist of two parts. Part one would be the planning of
expenditures; and part two would be the monitoring and control of expenditures. The data would be inputted by the
financial management unit as they receive the physical/financial data from the executing agencies. The executing
agencies would primarily work with the Annual Operating Plan (POA) and would report the expenditures to the Financial
Management Unit so that they can monitor the physical/financial progress of the project. The accounting records would
be maintained on a cash basis. The system would provide accurate and timely accounting reports.
Planning and Budgeting
An Annual Operating Plan (POA) would be prepared by each of the executing agencies and would be submitted to the
Project Management Unit. Each POA would be revised and inputted into the system under specific codes which would
identify the executing agency, the category, the component, and the element of expenditure as described in the PAD.
Please refer to Flow of Funds for more details on disbursements aspects.
Project Financial Management Reporting
The format of the accounting reports agreed with IBAMA would show the sources and uses of the funds, variances
between actual and planned expenditures, and the uses of funds by project category and executing agency. It would allow
the Financial Management Unit to monitor the physical and financial progress of the project. The accounting reports
would be produced monthly. An existing accounting system in use for other Bank-financed projects is being adapted to
prepare the financial management reports as agreed.
Auditing Requirements
The terms of reference for the audit of this project satisfactory to the Bank would be included in the project operational
manual and would be reviewed by the FMS of the Brazil CMU. The Bank's other projects with MMA (NEP,
GEF/FUNBIO/PROBIO) have been audited by the Secretaria Federal de Controle (SFC) and no major issues have been
reported. This project would be audited either by SFC or by an independent private auditor, in accordance with the
proposal of SFC made to the Bank in the context of the Protocol of Understanding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 27
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Flow of Funds
The Executing Agencies would pay themselves for their acquisitions and would submit financial requests to the Financial
Management Unit at IBAMA on their expenditures according to the Annual Operating Plan (POA). IBAMA would
advance the funds to the executing agencies from its account through Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (STN). The
Executing Agencies would provide to IBAMA an actual expenditures report and IBAMA would prepare the Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) and would send it to STN. STN would then send to the Bank (LOAEL) the application form for
withdrawals in order to reimburse themselves from the special account.
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Implementation    Total
Period
1998    1999
Project Costs
Investment Costs            7,100     453    7,553
Recurrent Costs            11,500      947   12,447
Total                     18,600    1,400  20,000
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                       14,000   1,000    15,000
Government                  4,600    400     5,000
Total                     18,600   1,400    20,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 28
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 6
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
A) Procurement of Contracts to be signed before December 31. 1998
In view of the emergency nature of this project, procurement would be carried out in accordance with Chapter I of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Simplified procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used for contracts signed before
December 31, 1998, as follows:
Goods:
Shopping (comparison of at least three quotations) for goods up to an aggregate amount of US$3,500,000. Prior review
of technical specifications and vendor lists would be required for lots with an estimated price exceeding US$50,000;
Consulting Services:
Individuals: Selection based on consultant's qualification for all contracts.
Prior Review of Terms of Reference for all contracts would be required. Full documentation would be required.
Firms: Consultants Qualification (comparison of three firms) for all contracts. Single Source selection for specific
exceptional cases with Bank's prior no objection.
Works
No works will be procured under this project.
B) Procurement of Contracts to be signed after December 31, 1998
Procurement of all goods for contracts signed after December 31, 1998 will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, version dated January 1995,
revised January and August 1996). To the extent possible, goods may be packaged and contracts for such packages
estimated to cost in excess of US$350,000 will be procured under Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Other packages of goods whose contracts for such packages are estimated
to cost in excess of US$50,000 up to US$350,000 may be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures using standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank (Standard NCB models will be provided by
the World Bank). Goods costing up to US$50,000 may be procured under International Shopping, up to aggregate
amount of US$3,500,000. With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than
US$50,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Consulting services from firms will be procured in accordance with Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
procedures. Complex or highly specialized assignments may be procured under Quality-Based Selection (QBS). Simple
assignments not exceeding the equivalent of US$200,000 that can be precisely defined may be selected under a fixed
budget. Assignments of a standard or routine nature not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 may be procured under
least-cost selection procedures. Individual consultants will be selected on the basis of their qualifications. These
procedures are described in the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
version dated January 1997, revised September 1997. All Terms of Reference, independently of their estimated cost, will
be subject to prior review by the Bank. With respect to consulting services contracted with firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 29
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
apply. With respect to consulting services contracted with individuals estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
more, the individual consultant's qualifications and contract will be subject to prior review by the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 30
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements5
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Procurement Method
International   Direct    Consulting
Shopping    Contracting    Services    N.B.F.     Total
A. GOODS
1. Vehicles                                720.0           -            -        -        720.0
(576.0)                                        (576.0)
2. Field Equipment                        3,937.8           -           -        -       3,937.8
(2,526.7)                                      (2,526.7)
3. Office Equipment                         77.2            -           -        -          77.2
(61.7)                                         (61.7)
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Local Consultants                           -           -       2,818.4       -       2,818.4
(2,818.4)             (2,818.4)
D. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
1. Operating Costs                             -     12,276.6           -        -      12,276.6
(9,017.1)                         (9,017.1)
2. Maintenance of Equipment                    -        170.0           -        -         170.0
TOTAL                                   4,735.0    12,446.6      2,818.4       -      20,000.0
(3,164.4)    (9,017.1)    (2,818.4)     -     (15,000.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the
items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in
the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
5 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 31
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                                                        Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                     (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                    contingencies)
QCBS    QBS         SFB       LCS        CQ        Other    N.B.F.
A. Firms
______ ______ ______ ______ 0.5                                                                  0.5
B. Individuals
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 .4  _ _ _   1 .4
Total                           0.5                                       1.4                           1.9
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 32
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review6
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
Contracts signed prior to December 31, 1998
1. Goods
First US$ 3.5 M. by International Shopping                         Prior Review
>350        ICB                    Prior Review
50 to 350      NCB (up to an          Prior Review of
aggregate value of    Specifications and
US$3.5 M.)            Quotations
<50        International Shopping  Prior Review of
(except for tires, fuel,   Specifications and
foodstuffs and other    Quotations
consumable goods
which may be procured
by National Shopping,
up to an aggregate
value of US$3.5 M.)
In locations where less         <25         Direct Contracting    None
than three suppliers are                    (up to an aggregate
available                                   value of US$1 M.)
2. Services
Firms                                       QCBS                  Prior Review of Short-
list and LOI
Individuals                                 CQ                    Prior Review of TORs
Contracts signed after December 31, 1998
1. Goods
>350        ICB                    Prior Review
50 to 350      NCB                    Prior Review of
Specifications and
Quotations
<50        National Shopping     Prior Review of
Specifications and
Quotations
2. Services
Firms                                       QCBS                  Prior Review of Short-
list and LOI
Individuals                                 CQ                    Prior Review of TORs
6 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 33
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Project Total   Bank Financing     Amount
Amount             %
I. Investment Costs
A. GOODS
1. Vehicles                                   720.0              80.0          576.0
2. Field Equipment                           3,937.8             64.2         2,526.7
3. Office Equipment                            77.2              80.0           61.7
Subtotal GOODS                                 4,735.0             66.8         3,164.4
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. National Consultants                      2,818.4            100.0        2,818.4
Total Investment Costs                           7,553.4             79.2         5,982.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
1. Operating Costs                          12,276.6             73.4        9,017.1
2. Maintenance of Equipment                   170.0                 -              -
Total Recurrent Costs                           12,446.6             72.4         9,017.1
Total                                       20,000.0             75.0        15,000.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 34
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 7
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
115                  115
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           2                    4
First Bank mission (identification)            April 21, 1998        April 21, 1998
Appraisal mission departure                    July 27, 1998         July 27, 1998
Negotiations                                   August 5, 1998     August 17-19, 1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                September 1, 1998
Prepared by: IBAMA, Consultants
Bank staff who worked on the project include:
Name                                     Specialty
Daniel R. Gross, Task Manager              Senior Anthropologist
Ricardo Tarifa, Co-Task Manager            Consultant - Natural Resources Management
Robert Schneider, Sector Leader            Principal Economist
John Redwood                               Lead Specialist, Environment
Irani Escolano                             Procurement Specialist
Tulio Henrique Lima Correa                 Consultant - Financial Management Specialist
Renan Poveda                               Consultant - Environmental Management
Specialist
Andrew Hurd                                Consultant - Development Management
Specialist
David Gray                                 Consultant - Environmental Information
Specialist



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 35
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 8
Brazil: Emergency Fire Prevention And Control Project in the Amazon
Documents in the Project File
Benatti, Jose Heder and Ana Cristina Barros. 1998. Prevencio as QueimadasAcidentais naAmaz6nia. Belem, Para,
Brazil: IPAM.
Confederacao Nacional da Industria. 1998. Incendios no Estado de Roraima - Relat6rio. Brazil.
Corpo de Bombeiros do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. 1994. IBAA14 - USDA Forest Service Exchange Program: A Report
of Three Years ofActivities. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
IBAMA. 1998. Cartilha: 0 Verde e a Cor do Brasil. Brasilia, Brazil.
IBAMA/MMA. 1998. PROARCO - Programa de Prevencdo e Controle as Queimadas e aos Incendios Florestais no
Arco do Desflorestamento. Brasilia, Brazil.
IBAMA/MMA. 1998. Roraima - Avaliacdo de Impacto Ambiental. Brasilia, Brazil.
IPAM. 1998. Fogo Reincidente na Amaz6nia - as Condicoes Naturais da Floresta Levam a Problemas Cada Vez Mais
Graves. Belem, Para, Brazil.
Mutch, Robert W. 1995. Fire Management in Brazil: Sustaining productive Ecosystems for People - Future
Expectationsfor PREVFOGO (Consultant Report). Brasilia, Brazil: UNDP.
Mutch, Robert W. 1998. PROARCO - Final Consultant Report. Washington DC: The World Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                              Page 36
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Table A: Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                           disbursements *
Project ID      Credit      Year              Purpose
No.                                               IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 206
Active Loans
BR-PE-35728   IBRD42320    1998   BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                   51.00        0.00            0.00          51.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-38947   IBRD42660    1998   SC. & TECH 3                         155.00        0.00            0.00         155.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD42110    1998   RJ ST.PRIV.                         250.00         0.00            0.00         250.00      137.50       0.00
BR-PE-42565   IBRD42510    1998   PARAIRA R.POVERTY                     60.00        0.00            0.00          60.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-48357   IBRD42450    1998   CEN.BANK TAL                          20.00        0.00            0.00          20.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-51701   IBRD42520    1998   MARANHAO R.POVERTY                    80.00        0.00            0.00          80.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-6474    IBRD42380    1998   LAND MGT 3(SP)                        55.00        0.00            0.00          55.00        0.00       0>00
BR-PE-6549    IBRD42650    1998   GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT                130.00         0.00            0.00         130.00        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-34578   IBRD41650    1997   RGS HWY MGT                           70.00        0.00            0.00          70.00        4.67       0.00
BR-PE-38896   IBRD41200    1997   R.POVERTY(RGN)                        24.00        0.00            0.00          21.24        2.71       0.00
BR-PE-39196   IBRD41390    1997   RGS ST.REFORM                       125.00         0.00            0.00          75.00       30.00       0.00
BR-PE-42566   IBRD41220    1997   R.POVERTY(PE)                         39.00        0.00            0.00          33.61        5.56       0.00
BR-PE-43868   IBRD41480    1997   RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                100.00         0.00            0.00          97.00        6.87.      0.00
BR-PE-43871   IBRD41210    1997    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                     30.00        0.00            0.00          26.67        4.17       0.00
BR-PE-43873   IBRD41690    1997   AG TECH DEV.                          60.00        0.00            0.00          56.01        6.96       0.00
BR-PE-46052   IBRD41900    1997   CEARA WTR PILOT                        9.60        0.00            0.00           9.60        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-48870   IBRD41890    1997   MT STATE PRIV.                        45.00        0.00            0.00          45.00        4.17       0.00
BR-PE-6475    IBRD41470    1997   LAND RFM PILOT                        90.00        0.00            0.00          75.05       -3.85       0.00
BR-PE-6532    IBRD41880    1997   FED HWY DECENTR                     300.00         0.00            0.00         300.00       13.34       0.00
BR-PE-6562    IBRD41400    1997   BAHIA MUN.DV                        100.00         0.00            0.00          98.98        5.65       0.00
BR-PE-37828   IBRD40600    1996    (PR)R.POVERTY                      175.00         0.00            0.00         175.00       67.93       0.00
BR-PE-40028   IBRD4046A    1996   RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                151.48         0.00            0.00         142.62          .95      0.00
BR-PE-6512    IBRD39240    1996   ENV/CONS(CVRD)                        50.00        0.00            0.00          31.07        4.93       0.00
BR-PE-6547    IBRD3633A    1996   METRO TRANSP. RIO-                    47.48        0.00            0.00          37.22       37.57       0.00
BR-PE-6554     IBRD40470    1996   HLTH SCTR REFORM                   300.00         0.00            0.00        261.09        64.41       0.00
BR-PE-35717   IBRD39170    1995   RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                  105.00         0.00            0.00          65.51        8.20       0.00
BR-PE-38882   IBRD3915A    1995   RECIFE M.TSP                          98.72        0.00            0.00          98.72       42.80       0.00
BR-PE-38884   IBRD39180    1995   RURAL POV.- CEARA                     70.00        0.00            0.00          49.17        8.17       0.00
BR-PE-38885   IBRD39190    1995   RURAL POV.-SERGIPE                    36.00        0.00            0.00          21.27        1.26       0.00
BR-PE-6436    IBRD37890    1995   CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO                140.00         0.00            0.00         111.59       68.92      -2.16
BR-PE-6564     IBRD3916A    1995   BELO H M.TSP                         83.32        0.00            0.00          83.32       42.78       0.00
BR-PE-6564     IBRD39160    1995   BELO H M.TSP                         15.68        0.00            0.00            .36       42.78       0.00
BR-PE-6452    IBRD36630    1994   NE BASIC EDUC III                   206.60         0.00            0.00          88.21       60.34       0.00
BR-PE-6522    IBRD37670    1994   ESP.SANTO WATER                     154.00         0.00            0.00          90.30       59.06       0.00
BR-PE-6524    IBRD36390    1994   MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                 150.00         0.00            5.00          40.23       33.88       0.00
BR-PE-6543    IBRD37330    1994   M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC                150.00         0.00            0.00          56.60       13.93       0.00
BR-PE-6546    IBRD36590    1994   AIDS CONTROL                        160.00         0.00            0.00          16.40        1.58       0.00
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37130    1994   STE HWY MGT II                       54.00         0.00           18.00          18.48        3.67    -21.52
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37150    1994   STE HWY MGT II                       79.00         0.00           18.00           7.52        3.67    -21.52
BR-PE-6558    IBRD37660    1994   PARANA BASIC EDUC                    96.00         0.00            0.00      -  29.01        -3.67       0.00
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35470    1993   STATE HWY MGMT                       50.00         0.00            0.00           5.58       26.76      -1.38
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35480    1993   STATE HWY MGMT                       38.00         0.00           18.00           6.53       26.76      -1 38
BR-PE-6427    IBRD36040    1993   NE BASIC EDUC II                    212.00         0.00            0.00          57.96       39.02       0.00
BR-PE-6540    IBRD35540    1993   WTR Q/PLb(MINAS GERA                145.00         0.00            5.00          25.68       30.67    -12.53
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35030    1993   WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)                   9.00        0.00            0.00           5.60       93.17       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35040    1993   WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)                119.00         0.00            0.00          38.54       93.17       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35050    1993   WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)                117.00         0.00            0.00          49.05       93.17       0.00
BR-PE-6547    IBRD36330    1993   METRO TRANSP. RIO                     81.02        0.00            0.00            .34       37.57       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD3442A    1992   WATER SECTOR MODERNI                  69.62        0.00            0.00          57.93       58.39       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD3442S    1992   WATER SECTOR MODERNI                167.88         0.00            0.00            .46       58.39       0.00
BR-PE-6379    IBRD3457S    1992   METRO TRANSP.SPAULO                 119.70         0.00            0.00           5.20        5.21       0.00
BR-PE-6505    IBRD34920    1992   MATO GROSSO NAT RES                 205.00         0.00            0.00          88.77       88.77       0.00
BR-PE-6364    IBRD33750    1991   INNOV BASIC ED                      245.00         0.00            0.00          44.24       44.24       0.00
BR-PE-6492    IBRD33760    1991   HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO                260.00         0.00            0.00           8.81        8.80       0.00
BR-PE-6446    IBRD31730    1990   NAT ENVIRONMT                       117.00         0.00            0.00          26.59       26.61       0.00
BR-PE-6453    IBRD31700    1990   NE IRRIG I                          210.00         0.00           69.00          31.94      100.96      31.96
BR-PE-6473    IBRD31600    1990   LND MGMT II-S. CATAR                  33.00        0.00            0.00           5.33        5.38       0.00
BR-PE-6370    IBRD30130    1989   NE IRRI JAIBA                         71.00        0.00            0.00           5.58        5.59       0.00
BR-PE-6414    IBRD30430    1989   NTRL GAS DIST                         94.00        0.00            0.00           5.09        5.07       0.00
Total                                                               6,479.10         0.00          133.00      3,602.67   1,628.61    -28.53
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                2,743.40            15,768.39           18,511.79
of which has been repaid:                  203.09           12,311.36            12,514.45
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 6,143.00            3,508.06             9,651.06
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                45.83               45.83
Of which repaid                :                 0.00               45.83                45.83
Total Undisbursed                 :            3,602.67                51.05             3,653.72
Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 37
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Table B: Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973/78/83            CODEMIN                 0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00
1975/96               Oxiteno NE             30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/87/97            Ipiranga               40.00    6.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.32    0.00    0.00
1980/88               OPP                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/92               DENPASA                  .29    1.00     .12    0.00      .29    1.03     .05    0.00
1981                  Brasilpar               0.00     .04    0.00    0.00    0.00      .04    0.00    0.00
1982/84/86            PISA                    0,00    3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00
1982/86               Cimento Caue            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983                  SOCOCO                  0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00
1984                  ALQUIM                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/92/96            MBR                    12.67    0.00   10.00   14.83   12.67    0.00   10.00   14.83
1987/96               Perdigao               32.81   10.00    0.00   18.00   32.81   10.00    0.00   18.00
1987/96/97            Duratex                22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00
1987/97               SP Alpargatas          25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   20.70    0.00    5.00    0.00
1989                  COPENE                  4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ELUMA                   0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1989                  Politeno Linear         1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  ENGEPOL                 1.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  Ripasa                  5.71    5.00    0.00    0.00    5.71    5.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/92            Bahia Sul              18.57   20.97    0.00   10.00   18.57   20.97    0.00   10.00
1991                  Bradesco-AL            26.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Bahia          5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Eucatex        7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Petrofl        7,50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Romi           2.38     .40    0.00    0.00    2.38      .40    0.00    0.00
1991                  Rhodia-Ster            10.00    5.95    0.00    0.00   10.00    5.95    0.00    0.00
1992                  CRP-Caderi              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00
1992/93               TRIKEM                  0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00
1993                  BACELL                 12.50   10.70    0.00   25.20   12.50   10.70    0.00   25.20
1993                  Coteminas               0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  CEBRACTEX               1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Macedo Alimentos       17.67    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Votorantim             15.57    0.00    0.00    1.29   15.57    0.00    0.00    1.29
1993/96               CEVAL                  56.21   20.00    0.00  131.29   56.21   20.00    0.00  131.29
1994                  GAVEA                  10.31    0.00    5.50    0.00   10.31    0.00    5.50    0.00
1994                  GPCapital               0.00   18.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.46    0.00    0.00
1994                  Para Pigmentos         30.00    9.00    0.00   35.00   25.50    8.14    0.00   29.75
1994                  Portobello             15.79    5.00    0.00    0.00   15.79    5.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/97            Sadia                  52.00   10.00   10.00  206.66   52.00   10.00   10.00  206.66
1994/96               CHAPECO                25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96               S.A.1.C.C.              0.00    7.85    6.87    0.00    0.00    7.70    6.87    0.00
1995                  Bradesco-Hering         7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Brahma- BRA            32.50    0.00    0.00   86.10   32.50    0.00    0.00   86.10
1995                  Cambuhy/MC             22.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Lojas Americana        28.00    0.00    5.00   18.00   28.00    0.00    5.00   18.00
1995                  LATASA - Brazil        17.00    0.00    0.00    3.50   17.00    0.00    0.00    3.50
1995                  Politeno Ind.          17.54    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.54    0.00    0.00    0 00
1995                  Rhodiaco/PTA           27.50    0.00    0.00   27.00   27.50    0.00    0.00   27.00
1995/96               Globocabo              35.00   18.06    0.00  118.00   35.00   18.06    0.00  118.00
1996                  Banco Bradesco         40.00    0.00    0.00   60.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 38
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                   Banco Liberal           10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   Mallory                 8.00    3.96    0.00    0.00    8.00    3.96    0.00    0.00
1996                   TIGRE                  25.00    0.00    5.00   23.50   25.00    0.00    5.00   23.50
1996/97                Lightel                25.00   18.17    0.00    0.00   25.00    18.17    0.00    0.00
1997                   Wentex                  15.00   10.00    0.00   20.00    15.00   10.00    0.00   20.00
1997                   Bompreco               25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   Copesul                40.00    0.00    0.00  180.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   Rodovia                35.00    0.00    0.00   79.50   15.28    0.00    0.00   34.72
1997                   Samarco                 18.00    0.00    0.00   16.00   18.00    0.00    0.00   16.00
1997                   Sucorrico              15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   BSC                     14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50   14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50
1998                   Empesca                25.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  972.88  208.02   67.99  1,164.   743.33  205.75   62.92  874.34
37
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                   AGUAS LIMEIRA          17.00    1.00    0.00   23.00
1998                   BANCO ICATU            30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   COPESUL BLINC.          0.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1997                   CTBC                   35.00    0.00    0.00  150.00
1996                   GLOBOCABO II            0.00    0.00    0.00   38.00
1997                   GUILMAN-AMORIM         30.00    0.00    0.00   90.00
1998                  ICATU EQUITY             0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  IPIRANGA EXPANS.         0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                  IPIRANGA RI              0.00      .32    0.00    0.00
1998                   LOJAS RENNER            16.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   NOVA DUTRA              0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
BLINC
1996                   OXITENO/ETHYLO          0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   SARAIVA                15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   SP ALPARGATAS II        0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1998                   TRIKEM II              25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   UNIBANCO LIVESTO    50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   VARGA                  20.00    0.00    3.00   15.00
Total Pending Commitment:         238.00   43.32    8.00  401.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                  Page 39
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Annex 10
Brazil at a Glance
8/28/97
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                             America      middle-
Brazil    & Carib.    income           Development diamond'
Population mid-1996    (millions)                                    161.2          485         479
GNP per capita 1996    (US$)                                         4,360        3,710       4,540                      Life expectancy
GNP 1996  (billions US$)                                             702.9         1,799      2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population  (%)                                                         1.4          1.7         1.5        GNP                                        Gross
Labor force  (I)                                                        1.6          2.3         1.8        per        -                             primary
Most recent estimate    (latest year available since 1989)                                                  capita                                enrollment
Poverty: headcount index   (% of population)                             17
Urban population    (% of total population)                             78            74          73
Life expectancy at birth    (years)                                     67            69          69
Infant mortality   (per 1,000 live births)                              44            37          35                   A
Child malnutrition    (% of children under 5)                            18                                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water    (% of population)                                92           80          86
Illiteracy  (% of population age 15+)                                   17            13          13
Gross primary enrollment   (%/ of school-age population)               114          110         107                      Brazil
Male                                                                                                                    Upper-middle-income group
Female....
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975       1985          1995        1996
GDP (billions USS)                                       121 8       222.9        716.9       748.7         Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investment/GDP                              26.8        19 2         20.1        19.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP                           7.5        12.2          6.7         6.6                  Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                 22.9       24.4          19.2        18.2                              r
Gross national savings/GDP                                 21.1        19.3         17.6        16.3                               I
Current account balance/GDP                                -5 8        -0.2         -2.5        -3.2
Interest payments/GDP                                       1.7         3.3          1.2         1.7        Savings               .              Investment
Total debt/GDP                                             22.4        46.5         22.2        23.8
Total debt servicelexports                                 43.5       39.1          43.1        46.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                     ..          .         22.1
Present value of debt/exports                                ..          ..       270.7           ..
[          ~~~Indebtedness
1975-85    1986-96         1995         1996    1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                                                 Brazil
GDP                                             3.1        1.2         4.1           2.9         4.8
GNP per capita                                  0.2        -0.4         2.8          1.6         4.0                    Upper-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices                      10.5        6.5         -1.4          6.1         7.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                                1975        1985         1995        1996         Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                                12.1        11.5         14.4        14.4        15
Industry                                                  40.2        45 3        . 36.5        36.4        10
Manufacturing                                            30.3        33.7         23.8           ..
Services                                                  47.7        43.1          49.1        49.2 s
-s9                      93     94      95     95
Private consumption                                        66.5        65 8         64.9        65.7       .10
General government consumption                             10.6         99          15.9        16.1                    -      GD1           GDP
Imports of goods and services                              11.5         7 1          7.6         7.9
1975-86    1986-96          1995        1996
(average annual growth)                                                                                     Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                                 4.3        2.6           4.9         3.1        40 T
Industry                                                    3.0       -1.1           2.1         2.3
Manufacturing                                             2.6        -1.5          2.1           ..       20 -
Services                                                    2.9        2.8           5.3         3.3
Private consumption                                         3.0         18          11.0         4.1
General government consumption                              1.2        0.7           2.4         0.8                  91             55 s    94    95       99
Gross domestic investment                                  -2 9       -0:6           9.4         0.0       *20
Imports of goods and services                              -4.0        8.9          36.8         5.9                  -        Expors           Impors
Gross national product                                      2.5         1.1          4.2         2.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                   Page 40
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Brazil at a Glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975      1985       1995      1996        I       (r
Domestic Drices                                                                              Inflation (%I
(% chanaeJ
Consumer Dnices                                   25.0    226.9         67.0      15.5     10C
lmDlicitGDP deflator                              33.9    231.7         74.9      11.1      2,000                    -
Government finance
(5s of GDP)                                                                                Io -
Current revenue                                      --        --       31.5      32.4                91   92    93    94   99   96
Primarv surDlus/deficit                              -                   0.4      -0.1                       GOPdef.     C pI
ODerational surolus/deficit                           .        .        -4.8      -3.9
TRADE
1975      1985       1995       1996                                                -
(millions USS1                                                                               Exoort and imoort levels (mill. USSI
Total exoorts (fob)                                       25.638      46.508    47.746      60,990
Coffee                                                    2.607      1.970     2.059
Other food                                               2.545       3.896     4.665
Manufactures                                             13.356     25.568    26.247        ',  -
Total imDorts (cif)                                  --   13.153      49.663    53.286             r           I
Food                                                          -      3.535     6.044      20,99  -     f    i      I _    
Fuel and enerov                                    ..    6.176       4.649     5.752      ~       {I
CaDital ooods                                      ..    2.480      19.688    19.804 
ExDort orice index (1987=100)                                 97        128        126              0    91  92   93   94   9    a
Imoort Drice index (1987=100)                                 79        124        125      1               E.ports .   Mnports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                           ..       123         103       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                              Current account balance to GDP ratio (%t
Exoorts of ooods and services                    9.418    27.713     47.960    49.558       2
Imoorts of ooods and services                   14.323    16.928      54.306    59.355
Resource balance                                -4.905    10.785     -6.346    -9.797       I
Netincome                                       -2.106   -11.213    -15.419   -17.402       0
Net current transfers                              -10        16       3.973     2.899           ,    9    92   93   94   93 !
Current account balance.                                                                    2
before official caDital transfers             -7.021      -412    -17.792   -24.300
Financina items (net)                            5.956     1.826      30.779    32.935
Chanaes in net reserves                          1.065    -1.414    -12.987    -8.635       4
Memo:
Reserves includino oold  (mill. US$)             4.166    11.613      51.469    59.663
Conversion rate (local/USS)                    3.OE-12   2.3E-09         0.9       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(millions US$1                                                                              Comoosition of total debt. 1995 (mill. US$t
Total debt outstandina and disbursed            27.329   103.601    159.130   178.131                           A    c
IBRD                                           1.045     5.274       6.038     5.876                G       5038  142
IDA                                                0         0           0         0              30494                3327
Total debt service                               4.320    11.470      22.328
IBRD                                              98       796       1.868     1.638                /
IDA                                                0         0           0         0                                        9451
Comoosition of net resource flows
Official orants                                    9        34          64
Official creditors                             1.059       935      -1.378
Private creditors                              4.213       149       9.827
Foreion direct investment                      1.302     1.348      4.859
Portfolio eouitv                                   0         0      4.411
899678
World Bank orooram
Commitments                                      538     1.525        404        858       A - IBRD                       E - Biater
Disbursements                                   249        765        838      1.500       8- IA     C-OthernmuYilateral  F-Privatc
Princioal reDavments                              26       406       1.377     1.222       C - IMF                        G - Short-temm
Net flows                                        224       359        -539      278
Interest Davments                                 72       391        491       416
Net transfers                                    152       -32      -1.031      -138
Develooment Economics                                                                                                             8/28/97



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                   Page 41
Brazil - Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
Figure 1
Deforestation Arc - Amazon
W    Municipalities in Arc
Source: IPAM
Daniel R. Gross
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files@LAC\PROJECTSM!BR\CTRYTASK\GROSS\FIRES\PADFII.DOC
08/26/98 4:16 PM



