Report No. PID6810
Project Name                     Brazil-Amazon Emergency Fire Prevention...
and Control Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       BRPE58129
Borrower                         The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Brazilian Institute for the Environment
and Renewable
Natural Resources (IBAMA)
SAIN - Av. L4 Norte - Ed. Sede
70800-200 Brasilia, DF Brasil
Manoel Magalhaes de Mello, Diretoria de
Controle e Fiscalizacao
Phone: (061) 226-7076
Fax: (061) 226-4091
Date this PID prepared           August 1, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           August 4, 1998
Project Board Date               September 10, 1998
Country and Sector Background: The Brazilian Amazon contains nearly one
third of the world's remaining tropical rainforests providing important global
environmental services such as a repository of biodiversity, a carbon sink,
and protection of the watershed of the World's largest river. World attention
has been focused in recent years on the degradation of large areas through
forest-to-pasture conversion, slash-and-burn agriculture, logging, mining and
fires. Each year over the last decade, approximately 1.5 million hectares of
old-growth forests have been cleared and 1 million hectares are selectively
logged in the Amazon. A large portion of these logged forests experience
ground fires that can kill up to 759 of adult trees.
Most of the burning that occurs during the Amazon dry season is caused by
farmers and ranchers burning off cleared land to plant crops or renew
pastures. As farming, ranching and mining activities expand into the Amazon,
the high cost of mechanical clearing means that fire is the lowest cost means
of rapidly clearing felled timber and undesirable species. However, each
year, a significant amount of land is burned accidentally. In these
"escaped" fires, valuable timber, pasture, fences, power lines and other
infrastructure may be destroyed. In 1998, there has been a deficit in
rainfall compared to other years due to the El Nito weather pattern.
Consequently, the risk of escaped fires is higher in 1998 than in normal
years.
The current dry season in the Southern Amazon, poses a significantly increased
risk of escaped fires because of the abundance of fuel, exacerbated by the
increasing extent of cleared, logged and previously burned areas. An arc
(known as the Deforestation Arc) defines the highest risk area in the Southern
Amazon for the 1998 dry season in the southern Amazon region. The arc covers
an area some 200-600 km in width, and some 3,000 km in length extending from
the State of Maranhao in the East through parts of Tocantins, Para, Mato
Grosso, Amazonas, Rond¶nia and Acre in the West.



The population of the municipalities included in the arc is of approximately
1.8 million people. The region of the arc includes significant urban areas,
infrastructure, livestock, and other valuable assets. The potential for
environmental damage, destruction of property, and loss of life and injury is
high.
Project Objective:      The development objectives of the proposed project are to
prevent and control normal burning from turning into large-scale wildfires in
the southern part of the Brazilian Amazon during the dry season of 1998, and
to generate lessons regarding forest fire prevention and suppression
techniques.
Project Description:    The Emergency Loan would support (among others) the
following activities: (i) risk assessment activities; (ii) fire prevention,
primarily through community mobilization and training; (iii) strengthening of
emergency coordination at Federal, State and Municipal levels; (iv) building
capacity for fire suppression; and (v) monitoring and evaluation. These
actions would be implemented through the following components:
I. Risk Assessment and Fire Monitoring: Under this component, the federal
government, in conjunction with the National Institute of Space Research
(INPE), would use appropriate technology and methods for assessing fire risk
in the arc through the integration of soil moisture, forest type, and human
activity maps. These data, combined with other information, would be
distributed to decision-makers at a local, state and federal level to help
guide prevention and suppression efforts and the effective allocation of
resources for those undertakings.
II. Forest Fire Prevention: The objective of this component is to develop
technical assistance, educational training and publicity campaigns for local
communities and different stakeholders in high risk areas in order to provide
guidance on the risks and consequences of uncontrolled burning. The
prevention activities, such as training in the controlled use of fire, public
awareness and education campaigns would be coordinated by IBAMA in partnership
with local authorities and qualified NGOs. Fire combat brigades at the local
and Municipal level would be established, equipped and trained to supervise
controlled burnings, promptly address local fires and, in the event of
uncontrollable wildfires, report to State Fire companies. Under this
component, IBAMA, through an intensified enforcement campaign in conjunction
with State Environmental Agencies and State Forestry Police, would conduct
intensive enforcement operations.
III. Forest Fire Suppression: Contingency plans for the combat of forest
fires as well as participation plans with other government agencies and the
private sector would be developed under this component. Major fires, beyond
the control of State Fire departments, would be referred to a Federal Task
Force, which would be coordinated by a Strategic Nucleus. Representatives
from the Ministry of Regional Policies, IBAMA, the Ministry of the Air Force,
the Ministry of the Army, and the Military Fire Department from the Federal
District would comprise this unit. The Strategic Nucleus would coordinate
inter-agency efforts in fire fighting and would coordinate simultaneous fire-
fighting efforts in different regions. A staffed and equipped "situation
room" on a 24-hour alert during the burning season would be created for the
Strategic Nucleus. In addition, the equipping and training of fire-fighting
-2 -



brigades for Conservation Units and Indigenous Areas would be carried out
under this component.
IV. Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation: Under this component, a
project coordination unit (PCU) composed of a qualified multidisciplinary team
would be established to manage, monitor and evaluate the day-to-day
implementation of project activities. This component would also serve as the
platform to draw lessons on emergency preparedness, undertaking specific
studies and pilot activities aimed at improving emergency response capacity,
developing classifications of emergencies, response hierarchies,
communications systems and contingency planning. In addition, this component
would also support project monitoring and evaluation activities.
While the project is designed primarily to assist Brazil's preparation for the
risk of fire in the 1998 dry season in the Southern Amazon, it will also
contribute to longer-term strengthening of emergency preparedness.
Project Financing:       The total project cost is estimated to be US$ 22 million,
of which up to US$ 15 million (75% of total) would be financed by IBRD, and
US$ 2 million by USAID through the G-7 Pilot Program. The counterpart
contribution would be provided by the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Project Implementation: The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the
borrower, and IBAMA would be the executing agency. A project coordination
unit (PCU) would be established within IBAMA and serve as the main
interlocutor between the Bank and IBAMA. The PCU would be responsible for
overall management (planning, administration, supervision, financial
management, and reporting) of the project. In addition, an Advisory Group
would be established comprised of representatives from the Ministry of
Environment, Ministry of Planning and Budget, the Northern Chapter of the
Brazilian Association of Environmental Entities (ABEMA - Zona Norte) and an
NGO from the Amazon region. This advisory group would monitor project
implementation and provide policy and technical recommendations for the
project.
Project Sustainability:
i) Financial: Investment costs in fire prevention activities are quite low
in comparison to the high potential losses from catastrophic wildfires.
Likewise, the investment for the project could be regarded as minimal,
considering the infrastructure and emergency mechanisms that would be needed
to deal with recurring future fires. As a result, agencies at all levels of
government would be likely to continue to support these efforts in the longer
term to minimize costs associated with fire.
ii) Political/Institutional: The command structure and emergency response
task forces and mechanisms implemented under this project would be adaptable
to other types of emergencies as well. Thus, federal and state agencies would
be likely to maintain the emergency response infrastructure to better
coordinate future emergencies (fire and non-fire related).
Lessons Learned:        Lessons from previous emergency fire occurrences indicate
that the rapidity of response, clear and prompt access of information to
decision makers, and a simple, focused strategy is critical. Likewise, an
ongoing process of training in preparedness for forest fires has been
- 3-



identified as an important step in building the basis to manage responses to
future disasters. Lessons from international experience demonstrate the need
for: (i) prompt distribution of effective and reliable equipment; (ii) fire-
fighting strategies and action plans; (iii) clear and pre-established inter-
agency arrangements; (iv) community outreach in successful fire preventive
measures; (v) monitoring systems; (vi) training, educational and publicity
campaigns; and (vii) adequate exchange and dissemination of information. It
is expected that the project would generate sufficient information that would
contribute to the improvement of averting and controlling future fires. In
addition, experience illustrates that effective project implementation
requires a strong coordinating agency with clear authority and legitimacy, and
performance indicators to measure the project's objectives and delivered
products.
Environmental Aspects: The project would be implemented in the Brazilian
Amazon region, where the natural environment consists of humid tropical
forest, growing on relatively fragile tropical soils, with many small, medium
and large watercourses and natural lakes. The Risk Analysis conducted to date
shows that the most vulnerable areas are those where there has already been
significant anthropic disturbance, through clearing, burning, pasture
formation, roads and other infrastructure, urban development, and selective
logging. There are still vast, relatively undisturbed habitats in the region
but most of these are fairly secure from burning because they are inaccessible
and relatively fireproof.
The main thrust of this project would be to prevent or abate environmental
damage resulting from uncontrolled forest fires. However, the project has the
potential to cause relatively small, localized environmental impacts, such as
in the clearing of firebreaks; clearing of areas for air-and ground-support
operations; use of backfires; and transport and storage of fuel. Since there
is insufficient time (due to the emergency nature of the project) to conduct a
thorough Impact Assessment of specific potential impacts, project activities
that have potentially negative environmental impacts would be identified
during Appraisal. Procedures acceptable to the Bank to address these impacts
would then be incorporated into the early stages of the project.
The seasons above and below the equator are inverted.     In the North, the rains fall
from roughly April to September; in the South, the rainy season corresponds roughly to
November to April.
Program Objectives Categories:   Environmentally Sustainable Development
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 4, 1998.
- 4 -



