Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4389-BR
Loan Agreement
(Amazon Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project - PROARCO)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 30, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4389-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1999, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) there is sufficient technical evidence that the Borrower’s Deforestation Arc 
(as hereinafter defined) constitutes a highly flammable area, therefore the need for 
the proposed emergency Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
Page  2
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Advisory Group" means the group referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each plan referred to in Section 3.03 (i) 
of this Agreement;
(c)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower’s Central 
Bank;
(d)
"CBMDF" means Corpo de Bombeiros Militar do Distrito Federal, the fire 
department of the Borrower’s Federal District;
(e)
"CBME" means Corpo de Bombeiros Militar Estadual, the fire department of 
a State (as hereinafter defined); and "CBMEs" collectively all such departments;
(f)
"CEDEC" means Coordenação Estadual de Defesa Civil, the State Civil 
Defense Coordination Unit; and "CEDECs" means collectively all such coordination;
(g)
"COMDEC" means Comissão Municipal de Defesa Civil, the Municipal Civil 
Defense Commission; and "COMDECs" means collectively all such commissions;
(h)
"Command of Aeronautics" means Comando da Aeronáutica, the Borrower’s air 
force;
(i)
"Command of the Army" means Comando do Exército, the Borrower’s army;
(j)
"Deforestation Arc" means the high-risk area which begins in Northeastern 
Pará State, crossing Southeastern Maranhão State and Northeastern Tocantins State, 
passing through Southern Pará State and Northern Mato Grosso State, continuing through 
Northern Rondônia State and ending in Eastern Acre State, with a width ranging from 
200 - 600 km;
(k)
"Dry Season" means the annual period of little or no rainfall occurring 
roughly from June to December in the Southern Amazon region and from November to March 
in the Northern Amazon region;
(l)
"Emergency Situation" means the situation described in Article 2 of the 
Borrower’s PROARCO Decree (as hereinafter defined), characterized by indications of 
high forest fire risk as a result of the climatic and vegetation conditions in a State 
or Municipality (as hereinafter defined) located in the Legal Amazon (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(m)
"Federal District" means Distrito Federal, the political subdivision 
where the Borrower’s capital city is located;
(n)
"Federal Task Force" means a task force established pursuant to Article 1 
of the PROARCO Decree for the purposes of combating large scale forest fires and 
comprised of about five hundred professional firefighters and supported by, inter 
alia, the Command of Aeronautics, the Command of the Army and MMA (as hereinafter 
defined) and coordinated by MI (as hereinafter defined);
(o)
"FUNAI" means Fundação Nacional do Índio, the Borrower’s National 
Indigenous Foundation established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 5,371 of December 
5, 1967;
(p)
"IBAMA" means Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos 
Naturais Renováveis, the Borrower’s Institute for the Environment and Renewable 
Natural Resources established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 7,735 of February 22, 
1989;
(q)
"INPE" means Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais , the Borrower’s 
National Space Research Institute;
(r)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.03 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(s)
"Legal Amazon" means the area referred to in Borrower’s Law No. 5,173 of 
October 27, 1966 and Article 45 of Complementary Law No. 31 of October 11, 1977, which 
comprises the following States (as hereinafter defined), or part thereof, of the 
Borrower: Acre, Amapá, Amazonas, Maranhão, Mato Grosso, Pará, Rondônia, Roraima and 
Tocantins;
(t)
"MMA" means Ministério do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Environment; 
(u)
"MI" means Ministério da Integração Nacional, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
National Integration;
(v)
"MI Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (k) of 
this Agreement;
(w)
"MIS" means the Project monitoring and information system referred to in 
Section 3.03 (f) of this Agreement;
(x)
"Municipal Action Plan" means each of the plans referred to in Section 
3.03 (l) (iii) (B) of this Agreement;
(y)
"Municipal Fire Brigades" means fire brigades established or expected to 
be established by the Participating Municipalities (as hereinafter defined);
(z)
"Municipality" means the Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to 
in the Borrower’s Constitution;
(aa)
"Operating Agreement" means each of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.03 (j) or (k) of this Agreement; and the term "Operating Agreements" means 
collectively all such agreements;
(bb)
"Operational Manual" means the manual and its respective technical 
annexes for the operation of the Project referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(cc)
"Other Priority Areas" means areas located in the Legal Amazon in 
addition to those included in the Deforestation Arc that meet the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual for benefiting from Project activities;
(dd) 
"Participating Municipality" means a Municipality located within one of 
the Participating States, which has entered into a Participation Agreement;
(ee)
"Participation Agreement" means each of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.03 (l) of this Agreement; and "Participation Agreements" means collectively 
all such agreements;
(ff)
"Participating State" means any of the states of Acre, Amazonas, Mato 
Grosso, Maranhão, Pará, Tocantins and Rondônia, and any other State located in the 
Legal Amazon and agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, which has entered into a 
Participation Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and the term "Participating States" 
means collectively all such states;
(gg)
"Participating Entity" means each of the entities listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and the term "Participating Entities" means collectively 
all such entities;
(hh)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(ii)
"PROARCO Decree" means the Borrower’s Decree No. 2,959 of February 10, 
1999 which regulates the measures to be implemented in the Legal Amazon for the 
monitoring, environmental education, prevention and suppression of forest fires; 
(jj)
"Project Implementation Letter" means the letter dated September 15, 
1999, delivered by the President of IBAMA to the Bank, setting forth the Project’s 
implementation program and corresponding performance indicators; \0c (kk)
"Priority 
Municipalities" means those Municipalities considered to be in an Emergency Situation 
according to the PROARCO Decree and listed in the Operational Manual;
(ll)
"Situation Room" means the structure referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Agreement;
Page  4
(mm) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(nn)
"State" means the Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to in the 
Borrower’s Constitution;
(oo)
"State Action Plan" means each of the plans referred to in Section 3.03 
(l) (ii) (E) of this Agreement; and
(pp)
"Strategic Nucleus" means the Borrower’s Núcleo Estratégico referred to 
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to IBAMA.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
Page  5
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. The Minister of the Environment of the Borrower, and the person or 
persons designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, through MMA 
shall, pursuant to the Implementation Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, cause IBAMA, to carry out the Project with the assistance of the 
Participating States, Participating Municipalities and Participating Entities with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
emergency and environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, through MMA, enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with IBAMA (the Implementation Agreement), providing for the 
participation of IBAMA in the carrying out of the Project, such agreement to provide, 
inter alia, that IBAMA shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
coordination unit (the PCU) with responsibilities, structure, composition and 
functions, all satisfactory to the Bank, and with management and staff in adequate 
numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of, inter alia: (i) 
coordinating Project implementation; (ii) preparing the Annual Operating Plans; (iii) 
preparing and disseminating the Operational Manual; (iv) managing Project funds and 
keeping pertinent records and accounts; (v) managing and/or, as the case may be, 
supervising the procurement process for all goods and services required under the 
Project; (vi) monitoring and evaluating Project activities and issuing periodic 
reports pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section; and (vii) ensuring comprehensive 
dissemination of Project activities;
(b)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a situation room (the 
Situation Room) with responsibilities, structure, composition and functions, all 
Page  6
satisfactory to the Bank, and with management and staff in adequate numbers and with 
adequate qualifications, for the purposes of, inter alia, serving as a control center 
to collect and disseminate information on fire risk and occurrence to the appropriate 
government agencies on a continuous basis;
(c)
for the purposes of carrying out the publicity campaigns referred to in 
Part B.1 of the Project: (i) contract, by not later than thirty days after the 
Effective Date, consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
ensure that such publicity campaigns are, at all times: (A) consistent with the 
objectives and activities of the Project; (B) directed to the Project’s stakeholders 
and target population; and (C) conveyed in clear and direct language;
(d)
for the purposes of carrying out the monitoring and evaluation activities 
referred to in Part D.1 of the Project: (i) furnish terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (ii) contract, by not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, 
consultants in accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
for the carrying out of such activities pursuant to said terms of reference;
(e)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, carry out the 
Project in accordance with the implementation program and corresponding performance 
indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Letter;
(f)
put into effect a monitoring and information system (the MIS), 
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include a financial management system, such MIS 
to provide, inter alia, information on the implementation of the Project based on the 
performance indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Letter; 
(g)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions: (i) on the thirtieth, sixtieth and ninetieth day after the date of this 
Agreement, furnish to the Bank, a report on the progress of the Project during the 
previous thirty-day period of Project implementation; and (ii) after such ninetieth 
day, furnish to the Bank on a quarterly basis, until the completion of the Project, a 
report on the progress of the Project during the previous three month period of 
Project implementation; all such reports to be of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank may reasonably request;
(h)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, hold, at the request of the Bank: (i) until ninety days after the date of 
this Agreement, a review with the Bank on the progress of the Project during such 
period, based on the reports referred to in paragraph (g) (i) of this Section; and 
(ii) thereafter, hold semi-annual reviews with the Bank on the progress of the Project 
during the six month period preceding the date of such review and based on the reports 
referred to in paragraph (g) (ii) of this Section.  After each such review, take or 
cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank, 
during the review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken 
in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.  The request 
for any such review shall be sent by the Bank to the Borrower at least thirty days 
before such review is t
o take place;
(i)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 6.01 (i) of this 
Agreement, in the month of November of each calendar year until the completion of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank for approval an annual plan prepared by the PCU (the 
Annual Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities to be carried 
out during the subsequent year, including the corresponding timetables and the costs 
thereof, and, thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of such 
Annual Operating Plan and this Agreement;
(j)
enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, one with each of the 
following Participating Entities (the Operating Agreements): INPE and FUNAI (the 
Operating Agreement with FUNAI to be entered by not later than thirty days after the 
Effective Date), for the purposes of, inter alia, regulating their respective roles in 
the execution of the Project, including the transfer of resources from IBAMA to INPE 
for the carrying out of INPE's activities under the Project; 
(k)
for the purposes of carrying out Parts B.4, C.1 and C.2 of the Project, 
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank with MI (the MI Agreement) for the 
purposes of, inter alia: (i) regulating their respective roles in the execution of the 
Project; (ii) the transferring of resources from IBAMA to MI for the carrying out of 
Page  7
its corresponding activities under the Project; and (iii) providing for the obligation 
of MI to enter into agreements, satisfactory to Bank, one with each of the following 
Participating Entities (the Operating Agreements): Command of Aeronautics, Command of 
the Army and CBMDF, for the purposes of, inter alia, regulating their respective roles 
in the execution of the Project;
(l)
enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, one with each of the 
Participating States and Participating Municipalities (the Participation Agreements), 
to govern each such Participating State’s and Municipality’s overall rights and 
responsibilities in the carrying out of its corresponding activities under Parts B and 
C.3 of the Project, such Participation Agreements to provide for, inter alia:
(i)
the obligation of IBAMA to transfer, on a non-lending basis, to 
the Participating State and the Participating Municipality 
resources for the carrying out of their responsibilities under the 
Project, in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement and the Operational Manual;
(ii)
in the case of a Participating State, the establishment and 
maintenance, at least until the completion of the Project,  of a 
State Civil Defense Coordination unit (the CEDEC), with 
responsibilities, structure, composition and functions as provided 
in the Operational Manual, and, with management and staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the 
purposes of, inter alia: (A) planning and coordinating fire 
prevention and suppression activities; and (B) implementing  a 
comprehensive public awareness campaign, including the adoption of 
mechanisms in Municipalities and communities to encourage 
voluntary participation by the local population in preparedness 
activities; (C) assisting in the carrying out of fire prevention 
and suppression activities sponsored by the Borrower; (D) ensuring 
that the COMDECs and the Participating States’ respective 
emergency operations centers, and the Municipal Fire Brigades meet 
the Borrower’s emergency standards; and (E) preparing and 
subsequent carrying out of an action plan (the State Action Plan), 
satisfactory to the Bank, within the guidelines set forth in the 
Operational Manual, such plan to be reviewed by IBAMA; and
(iii)
in the case of a Participating Municipality, the establishment and 
maintenance, at least until the completion of the Project, of a 
Municipal Civil Defense Commission (the COMDEC), with 
responsibilities, structure, composition and functions as provided 
in the Operational Manual, and, with management and staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the 
purposes of, inter alia: (A) serving as the liaison between the 
relevant Municipality and the relevant CEDEC; and (B) preparing 
and subsequent carrying out an action plan (the Municipal Action 
Plan) within the guidelines set forth in the Operational Manual, 
such plan to be approved by IBAMA.
(m)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the MI 
Agreement, each Operating Agreement (of which IBAMA is part) and each Participation 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, 
and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to assign, amend, 
suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such agreements, or any provision 
thereof; 
(n)
by not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, furnish to the 
Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project 
and thereafter carry out such Part in accordance with such plan and in a manner and 
within a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; and
(o)
by not later than thirty days after the Effective Date,  furnish to the 
Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank that the equipment required under Part A.3 of 
the Project has been installed and operating in accordance with the Operational 
Manual. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to 
be carried out, in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Operational Manual), said manual to include: (a) the structure and organization of the 
PCU, including the terms of reference for all technical coordination functions and the 
procedures pertaining to the following areas: administration, procurement, financial 
Page  8
management, monitoring and evaluation; (b) the procedures and guidelines for emergency 
management and alert systems, including the responsibilities of the Strategic Nucleus 
and of its members; (c) the procedures for the organization and operation of the 
Situation Room, including the responsibilities of its supporting staff and technical 
standards; (d) the procedures for the operation of the CEDECs and COMDECs; (e) the 
guidelines and procedures governing the relationship between IBAMA and FUNAI in 
respect of indigenous groups for the purposes of equipping, training, fire prevention 
and fire 
suppression activities in indigenous reserves; (f) the procedures and conditions for 
IBAMA to provide financial transfers and technical assistance to Participating States 
and Participating Municipalities; (g) the guidelines for the preparation of State 
Action Plans and Municipal Action Plans; (h)  the conditions and criteria for the 
determination of imminent risk in States and Municipalities, as provided in the 
PROARCO Decree; and (i) a list of Priority Municipalities.  
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MMA, shall, by not later than thirty days 
after the Effective Date, establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of 
the Project, an advisory group (the Advisory Group) to be comprised of representatives 
from MMA, MI, the Northern Chapter of the Brazilian Association of Environmental 
Entities (ABEMA - Zona Norte) and a non-governmental environmental organization (other 
than ABEMA - Zona Norte) located in the Legal Amazon, with responsibilities, structure 
and functions, all satisfactory to the Bank, such Advisory Group to have full access 
to records and data pertaining to the Project, and to hold meetings, at least on a 
quarterly basis, for the purposes of, inter alia: (a) providing policy and technical 
recommendations for the Project; and (b) monitoring Project implementation.  The 
minutes of each meeting of the Advisory Group shall be promptly furnished to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through MI, shall establish and thereafter maintain 
until the completion of the Project, a strategic nucleus (the Strategic Nucleus) to be 
comprised of representatives from the MI, IBAMA, the Command of Aeronautics, the 
Command of the Army and CBMDF, with responsibilities, structure and functions, all 
satisfactory to the Bank, and with management and staff in adequate numbers and with 
adequate qualifications, for the purposes of, inter alia: (a) notifying the Minister 
of MI whenever a State or Municipality meets the conditions and criteria to qualify as 
being in an Emergency Situation as provided in the PROARCO Decree; and (b) ensuring 
close inter-institutional collaboration and coordination.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through MI, shall, pursuant to the relevant 
provisions of the PROARCO Decree, declare an Emergency Situation for a Municipality or 
State, as the case may be, by not later than seventy-two hours of receiving a written 
notice to that effect from the head of the Strategic Nucleus.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as provided in the MIS, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out 
of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts and financial statements referred to 
Page  9
in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and 
a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the PROARCO Decree or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that an Emergency Situation has been declared in at least twenty Priority 
Municipalities, there being one Priority Municipality for which such declaration has 
been issued in each Participating State;
(b)
that the Implementation Agreement between MMA and IBAMA has become 
effective;
(c)
that the MI Agreement has become effective;
(d)
that the relevant Operating Agreements with each  of the following 
Participating Entities have become effective: INPE, the Command of Aeronautics, the 
Page  10
Command of the Army, and CBMDF;
(e)
that the Participation Agreements between IBAMA and each of the 
Participating States and the Participation Agreements between IBAMA and at least   
twenty Priority Municipalities have become effective;
(f)
that State Action Plans encompassing at least fifty percent (50%) of the 
Deforestation Arc have been received by the Bank;
(g)
that at least four CEDECs have been duly established;
(h)
that the PCU has been duly established and its key staff appointed;
(i)
that the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of Project 
implementation has been approved by the Bank;
(j)
that the Operational Manual has been furnished to the Bank; and
(k)
that the MIS has been established.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been validly 
registered by Banco Central.
Section 6.03. The date December 30, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco "P" - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
With copies to:
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e 
   dos Recurso Naturais Renováveis
SAIN Av. L4 Norte Bl. "A"
Ed. Sede do IBAMA
70800-200, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Page  11
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Almir Martins Bastos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert R. Schneider
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
To be Financed
(1)
Goods
   3,100,000
70% of local 
expenditures and
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
   1,800,000
100%
services (other
than Consultants’
services included
in Category 4
below)
(3)
Incremental Recurrent
Costs:
(a)
For Parts B.3    1,500,000
70% until
and B.4 of the
03/31/00; and
Project
20% thereafter
(b)
For Part C of    4,500,000
70% until
the Project
10/31/00; and
20% thereafter
(4)
Project Administration
   1,000,000
70%
Expenses
(5)
Fee
     150,000
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   2,950,000
Page  12
TOTAL
  15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means expenditures for fuel, spare 
parts, travel, per diems and other recurrent costs which would not have been incurred 
absent the Project (such expenditures to exclude salaries and related benefits); and
(d)
the term "Project Administration Expenses" means the operational costs 
and the supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by the PCU under Part 
D of the Project, including expenditures for consultants’ services for monitoring and 
evaluation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equal to 
$3,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures incurred 
within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures not included in an Annual Operating Plan approved by the 
Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (iii) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; and (iv) Incremental Recurrent Costs and Project Administration 
Expenses (other than consultants’ services whose selection is subject to prior review 
pursuant to Part D.2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to prevent and suppress wildfires in the 
Deforestation Arc and in the Other Priority Areas and to learn  how to better control 
wildfires in the Legal Amazon.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Risk Assessment and Fire Monitoring
1.
Carrying out of an assessment of fire risk in the Deforestation Arc through the 
integration of  meteorological data, vegetation index maps, and human activity maps 
for the purposes of, inter alia, guiding prevention and suppression efforts and the 
allocation of resources to those efforts.  
2.
Monitoring of fires and precipitation occurrences during the Dry Season.
3.
Establishing and operating an effective communication network for the 
dissemination to appropriate uses of the data referred to in, or generated as a result 
of, Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project. 
Part B:
Forest Fire Prevention 
1.
Provision of technical assistance, including training, and carrying out of 
educational and publicity campaigns for local communities and other stakeholders in 
order to provide guidance on controlled burning techniques and on the risks and 
consequences of uncontrolled burning.
Page  13
2.
Carrying out of intensified enforcement and compliance operations as part of an 
integral system that would prevent and control illegal burning activities, such 
operations to be comprised of the following activities: aerial and ground 
reconnaissance, inspection of licenses issued for clearing and burning of forests, and 
issuing of administrative summons and warnings to violators.
3.
Carrying out of training and provision of equipment to CBMEs, Municipal Fire 
Brigades, indigenous fire brigades (on indigenous reserves under the administration of 
FUNAI) and conservation-unit fire brigades (on conservation units under the 
administration of IBAMA or a Participating State) to promptly address forest fires and 
prevent them from burning out of control.
4.
Strengthening the civil defense capacity of the Participating States and 
Participating Municipalities for the purposes of preventing and combating wildfires, 
through the establishment, and provision of support for the operation of the 
corresponding CEDECs and COMDECs.  
Part C:
Forest Fire Suppression 
1.
Development of the Borrower’s contingency plan for combating forest fires as 
well as participation plans with other government agencies, as outlined in the 
Operational Manual. 
2.
(a)  Coordination of, and provision of support to, fire combat brigades at the 
municipal level to address local fires and to call on  State fire companies as needed 
in the event of uncontrollable wildfires; and (b) establishment and operation of the 
Strategic Nucleus and the Federal Task Force to address large fires, beyond the 
control of State fire companies. 
3.
Operation of fire combat brigades at the municipal level to address local fires 
and to call on  State fire companies as needed in the event of uncontrollable 
wildfires.
Part D:
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies
1.
Management, monitoring and evaluation of the day-to-day implementation of the 
Project.  
2.
Carrying out of preliminary studies and long-range planning to identify and 
respond to such issues as the potential for increased flammability of burned areas in 
subsequent years.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The following Parts of the Project shall be carried out with the assistance of 
the Participating Entities indicated below:
Part of the Project
       Participating Entity
     B and C
CBMDF
     C
Command of the Army
     C
Command of Aeronautics
     B
FUNAI
     A
INPE
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule 
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2004
750,000
Page  14
through November 15, 2013
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each; and
(c)
the invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C.2 (a) and C.4 hereof, goods estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent or more but less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $3,500,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods under this Part C.1, bidding documents acceptable to the Bank  in 
standardized form for the Project, shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
Page  15
pursuant to this Part C:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
(b)
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
(c)
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
consórcio of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case.
(d)
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
(e)
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures (except for fuel, tires, foodstuffs and other consumable goods which may be 
procured on the basis of national shopping) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, provided that the relevant contracts are 
signed prior to March 31, 2000.
(b)
Except as provided in paragraph 2 (a) above, goods estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. \0c 3.
Direct Contracting
In locations where less than three suppliers are available for the procurement 
of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, such goods may be directly acquired from a 
supplier eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under Part C.1 of this 
section the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.2 above and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  16
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for: (a) fire risk assessment which requires remote sensing and 
geographic information systems under Part A.1 of the Project; and (b) specialized 
marketing advice for the carrying out of activities under Part B.1 of the Project; 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts and any 
single-source selection of consulting firms shall be subject to the Bank’s prior 
approval.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $3,000,000 (or 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, by notice to the Borrower), to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  18
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
