ThWe World Bank
FMOR CUAL USE ONLY
NICROI!ICHIC COPY
Report No. 10287-UNI Type: (PCR)                           Report No. 10287
ASFIER-YOU/ X3'1752 / T9 053/ QEDDi
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1668-UNI)
JANUARY 30, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This docuameat has a restricted distrbution and may be ased by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaktion.



Mamcy Unit:ra(
Exhu. Rats:                At ppraisal: US$  -   O.65
Intevening yea  aveage: USS    N 1.51
Completion yeaw (1988) average: US$1 - N4.54
I metlc ton(Mt)     -     2,205 pounds (lbs) or
0.9842. long ton
Ilhectare(ha)       -     2.4711lacres(ac)
I ce (SC)                 0.4047 hectare (ha)
I kionmur (n)             0.6214 miles (ml)
I mile (ml)                1.6093 kilomes (m)
ADP          Agrilura Deveopmt Project
APMEPU       Agriculura Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
ASP          Advanced Service Package
BSP          Basic Service Package
FACU         Fedwrul Agricultra Coodinating Unit
FDA          Federal Department of Agriculture
FDAR         Federal Depatment of Agricultural Reseach
FDRD         Federa Departmen of Rural Development
FMAWR        Federa Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
FMG          Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FSC          Farm Service Center
IPEC         Boin Project Executive Committee
IPMU         Iborin Project Management Unit
IPTCC       lforin Project Technical Coordinating Committee
IADP         hlorin Agricultural Development Project
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
'Me World Bank
KWSG         Kwara State Government
MANR         Ministry of Agriculture and Natual9 Resources, Kwara State
mow          Ministry of Works, Lands nd Housing, Kwara State
MSADP        Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
FISALYEAR
Apr;I 1-Mach 31



FOR OFFICIAL IJU ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WOshnston. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O6lc. d1 OkSCtU.GssWr
Op00mm 146MM
January 30, 1992
HEMOhMMDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AhD THE PFLSIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on NIGERIA
Ilorin Aericultural Development Proiect (Loan 1668-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on AIGERIA - Ilorin Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1668-UNI))" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. This project has not been audited
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
2
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEIJON REPORT
NIGEIUA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN'T PROJECT
(LOAN lElUNDI
TABLE OFCQTh3ZMI
Page No.
PREFACE .....................                                                                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .iii
PAR    1--      PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .........                  ..........   1
1. Project Idvntity ........................  ............................  1
2. Background ....................................................1 
3. Project Objectives and Components ...................... .................  2
4. Project Design and Organization ...........................................  3
5. Project Implementation ....................................................  5
6. Project Results ......................   ..............................    7
7. Project Sustainability ....................................................  8
8. Bank Performance ....................................... .............   8
9. Borrower's Performance ....................................................  9
10. Consulting Services ............................................. .......    9
11. Project Documentation and Data ............................................    9
12. Findings and Lessons Learned ...............................................   10
PAT 11:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWEP 'S PERSPECTIVE 1/ ......  11
ART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .13
1. Related Bank Loans .13
2. Project Timetable .13
3. Disbursements .14
4. Follow- )a Project .14
S. Project Implemettation .15
6. Project Cost and Financing .16
7. Project Results .17
8. Status of Covenants .18
9. Use of Bank Resources .21
Map: IBRD No. 1;9d
i/ Contain  the Borrower's comments on Pat I of the Draft PCR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL P3VELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1668-UNI
PIEEFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ilorin Agricultural Development
Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 1668-UNI in the amount of US$27.0 million equivalent
was approved on March 20, 1979. The original closing date for the Bank loan was June 30,
1985. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988, after three yearly extensions. The final
disbursement was on December 22, 1988. Some US$26.7 million was disbursed, and US$0.3
was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme on behalf of and in
conjunction with the Agriculture Operations Division, Africa Country Department IV
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and E). The Borrower's comments on Part I of the
draft PCR are inciuded in Part II.
Preparation of this PCR is based on a field completion mission conducted in March -
April 1990, and the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
Supervision Reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN i668-UNn                _
EV-LMUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The Ilorin Agricultural Development Project (IADP) was the seventh of a series of
enclave ADPs financed by the Bank in Nigeria starting in 1975. The project sought to
increase agricultural production and to improve incomes and living standards of 90,000
smallholder families in the central part of Kwara State. In line with the government's
agricultural strategy, the IADP was designed to provide a package of farm support services,
including extension advice, and improved seeds and fertilizers. The project aiso included the
construction and maintenance of rural feeder roads and the construction of 20 farm service
centers and training facilities for agricultural field and senior staff. In addition, the project
was to support the preparation of 13 feasibility studies for future agricultural projects.
igementation Exp
2.    Project implementation was characterized by the impact of a delayed start-up and a
slow pace of execution; chronic delays and inadequacy of counterpart funding; poor
coordination of project agricultural activities; and deficient project managemeni and
monitoring and evaluation. Contrary to planned emphasis, implementation of infrastructure
activities was accorded importance ahead of agricultural services. Actual project
implementation took about nine years instead of the six years (including one year of pre-
project activities) estimated at appraisal. Implementation started after a 4-month delay in the
fulfillment of loan effectiveness conditions, but, due to late recruitment of key project staff,
the project became operational only about one year later.
3.    Loan draw down was slow at the beginning and Federal Government (Flk) funding
was very often delayed. The contribution by the State Government (KWSG) was erratic and
several consecutive quarterly payments were not made, reflecting its low commitment to the
project. Lack of government funding was due to the local bureaucracy not sufficiently
benefitting from the strict procurement procedures of the prcject, and also the technicalities in
the release of allocated funds. Funding problems were compounded by the systematic losses
of the heavily subsidized operations of fertilizer distribution, tractor hire and land clearing.
By the mid-term review (January 1983) the Bank considered lADP a "major problem project"
and put it in a 'care and maintenance status." The Bank missions helped in restructuring the
project, and eased project cash flow problerns by increasing disbursement



- iv _
percentage and financing local stwff salaries. Discussions with the Government led to
increasing Federal financing of project costF and limiting state contribution effectively 2o
20%.
4.    Farmers did not adopt the technical packages as these were not financially viable given
prevailing costs and prices. The appraisal mission did not adequately focus on the macro-
economic issues, particularly the implications of the over-valued local currency and cheap
food imports. The macro-economic environment seriously affected competitiveness of
Nigerian agriculture and discouraged major investments by farmers in both local and export
crops. The Bank increased its level of project funding by financing local staff salaries and
increasing tne disbursement percentage for civil works. This was done within the context of
the unfavorable macro-economic situation and the Government's inability to provide adequate
counterpart funds. The Bank, however, could have sent more frequent supervision missions
with sufficieut technical skills for reorienting the project activities and making the project staff
more effective. Also, the scarcity of relevant technological messages was a major limiting
factor in the impiementation of IADP. The project's expected technological and economic
impact was based on on-station research results that turned uut to be insufficiently relevant to
the economic realities of local farmers to be practicable. Expected yields for both the basic
and advanced technological packages depended on a range of inputs which farmers could not
be realistically expected to apply given the unfavorable price environment. Consequently,
adoption rates assumed were totally unrealistic. Only fertilizer achieved widespread
acceptability, mainly due to a substantial and continued subsidy. However, it should be noted
that some of the fertilizer might have actually leaked across the country's borders where it
fetched higher prices. Fert;iizer used in the traditional system paid-off in the case of maize
but niot in the case of sorghum and millet. in addition to weak extension-research interaction,
coordination with other services did not develop. By the end of 1983, no coherent
agricultural operational plan to coordinate the various project services had been produced.
Lack of appropriate and sufficient training and supervision of the extension staff, coupled with
the insufficient number of extensionists, significantly limited the number of effectively assisted
farmers and the quality of the service itself.
5.    Delayed, insufficient and uncertain funding prevented any systematic planning and
programming of project activities, while reducing and at times paralyzing the actions of the
technical services. Political interference with project management generated problems with
the selection of personnel and the location of the headquarters. As a consequence, the Malete
headquarters were never completely built and the project was run from Ilorin. Project
management monitoring (e.g. indicators of project performance, beneficiaries reached, etc.)
was not carried out systematically, thus project reporting lacked quality and substance.
Results
6.    The project failed to develop a sound agricultural programme to benefit smallholders,
the overriding constraint being the poor incentive environment. Their traditional farming
systems remained basically unchanged. The project area was expected to actually achieve
only 20% of the incremental production that had been estimated in the SAR and this too could
not be attributed to the project's agricultural services. Actual physical indicators of rural
infrastructure development show a better resemblance to original targets. IADP had
constructed or upgraded 355 km of feeder roads, compared with 300 km estimated in the
SAR. The project had put infrastructure ahead of agriculture, perhaps because of political
pressure for roads, but also because the incentive environment for agriculture was not



appropritne. However, the project failed to create the institutional arrangements necessary to
guaantee maintenance of the infrastructure. Financial gains of the farmers have come mainlv
from expanded use of subsidized fertilizer. Satisfactory farmgate input/output ratios achie' 4
are becaue of a change in the incentive environment which resulted from the SAP
macroeconomic reform of 1986 rather than from project interventions. The SAR had
estimated the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to be 24%. Data collection efforts to
monitor project impact were quite !imited. A meaningful estimate of the actual financial gains
of the farmers and the overall economic viability of the project is, therefore, not possible.
7.    The project, however, represented an important initial developmental effort in the
state. It mobilized important resources in the construction of rural feeder roads and farm
service centers that facilitated farm-to-market transport and the distribution of fertilizer and
other farm inputs. Benefits from vehicle and transport cost savings and the increase in
economic activity arising from better infrastructure could be important in spite of a !ack of
data. Manpower development through formal staff training, and, most importantly, through
the assumption of managerial responsibility by the Nigerians after the departure of the
expatriate staff, is a significant achievement of the project. The accumulated experience of
the project management unit became instrumental in the state-wide expansion of activities of
the follow-on MSADP II project. The organizational structure and the experience acquired in
the delivery of extension and other services, should prove of great value in improving the
delivery of such essential services to the benefit of Kwara state smallholders.
Sustainabiflt
8.    Prevailing economic conditions were not at all conducive to acceptance and
sustainability of project initiatives in agriculture, especially for technological packages to
increase and sustain yields and production. While infrastructure construction by the project
was successful, lack of financial resources militated against sound state-local government
arrangements for maintenance of rural infrastructure. Thus, any gains achieved at the
completion of the project could have been quickly lost without the infusion of resources
through the follow-on MSADP II.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    Some lessons that can be derived from the IADP experience are summarized below:
(a)    Political commitment, translated into adequate counterpart funding, is a key
element for successful planning and implementation. In the absence of such
commitment, it is doubtful whether significant and sustainable benefits can be
achieved. Similarly, the local governments must not only have the resolve,
but also the access to resources to undertake rural project infrastructure
maintenance. Institutional arrangements in that direction should be created
prior to construction.
(b)    The design and content of an agricultural improvement program must take
account of the macro economic situation in the country; if an overvalued
currency favors imports over domestic production, farmers would have no
incentive to invest in new technology-



- vi -
(c)    1echnological packages should reflect farmers' needs within the prevailing
socio-economic framework and agro-climatic conditions. Planning and
organizational arrangements for extension activities should be undertakeni at an
early stage during project implementation, and expansion should be linked to
the generation of relevant messages.
(d)    Likewise, implementation of the project should focus first on the development
of an implementation capacity, comprising managerial skills and the field
organization of services. Only after the development of such implementation
capacity should activities targeted at the farmer be implemented in earnest.
(e)    Consistent baseline data should be generated at a very early stage of the
project. Management should ensure that systematic efforts for project
monitoring and evaluation are made throughout implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1668-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identit
Project Name            Ilorin Agricultural Development Project
Loan Number             1668-UNI
RVP Unit                Africa
Country                 Nigeria
Sector                : Agriculture
Sub-sector              Area Development
2.    Ald=gLund
2.1   During the oil boom of the 1970s, agricultural production in Nigeria stagnated.
Agricultural growth was about 1% per year while population annual growth was around 3%.
From 1970 to 1982 the contribution of the agricultural sector to GDP fell dramatically from
45% to 27% and its share of exports dropped from 70% to 2% over the same period. The
performance of agriculture was, at that time, undermined by disincentives created by the oil
boom, which included: (i) the appreciation of the exchange rate; (ii) the enhanced
profitability of investments in non-tradeable commodities and services; (iii) rising wages in the
public sector and the urban private sector that drained labor from rural areas; and (iv) a
correspording downgrading of the profitability of agriculture. Although the Government in
the late 1970s provided subsidies when farm costs rose above export prices, this failed to
encourage farmers to rehabilitate their production.
2.2  It was expected that, as a consequence of rising oil prices, Nigeria would be in a
comfortable financial position in the 1980s, while the post-oil era would depend on the
success with which imports were replaced by domestic production and non-oil exl;erts were
stimulated. Consequently, according to the Fourth National Development Plan, th.-n under
preparation, the next five years would be used to consolidate the nation's economic base and
to lay the foundations for balanced long-term economic development. In the agriculture
sector, the Government's main objective was to improve the domestic price stability of basic
food crops and to ensure food self-sufficiency. Longer-term objectives included the creation
of a prosperous and efficient agriculture, through, inter alia, the development of irrigation and
the expansion of an ADP-based strategy to improve rural infrastructure and promote modem
farming techniques and improved inputs to smallholders. This agricultural strategy was built
on the experience of on-going enclave ADPs, whose success encouraged the Nigerian
authorities to extend similar packages of extension, inputs and feeder roads to other states.
2.3   The main thrust of the Bank Group lending in Nigeria at the time had been to support
agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis on institution-building and



tranfor of technology. These objectives were in consonance with the Federal Government's
priorities. By December, 1978, the Bank Group had provided thirteen loans for agriculture
amounting to $292 million (31% of totJ lending). Of these, five loans related to the general
agrictiltural development of target areas and are similar in structure to the project under
review.
3.    Project Objectiles and Components
(i)    Proect Qbjejye
3.1   The primary objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production and farm
incomes and thereby improve the standard of living of the farming population. The project,
to be implemented over five years, was designed to benefit some 90,000 smallholder families
in six local government areas of Kwara state.
(ii)    Components
3.2   The project had the following two major components:
(a) Kwara tate Component
Farm and Crop Development
-      Increasing production of the major subsistence and cash crops (yam, cassava,
sorghum/maize) grown by smallhold_rs on about 74,000 ha by establishing a
basic service package (BSP) consisting of improved farming practices, seeds
and fertilizer, and extension advice and other services, including Government
tractor units and promotion of private tractor entrepreneurs;
-      Introducing an advanced service package (ASP), including minimum tillage
and efficient mechanization, in 12,000 ha;
-      Establishing a planning/farm management service to undertake land use and
.--servation planning in five selected development areas;
-      Establishing a land development unit to clear 9,600 ha of light forests and to
construct soil conservation terraces (about 4,300 km) to protect the 12,000 ha
included in the ASP;
-      Conducting trials to test the introduction of new technology and farming
practices;
-      Providing a seed multiplication service and organizing outgrowers to supply
high quality seed to farmers; and
-      Establishing a farm input supply system.



-3 -
Civil Worlcs
Constructing 200 km of new feeder roads, improving 100 km of existing
feeder roads, and maintaining about 1,000 km of new and existing feeder
roads; and
Constructing project offices, stores, workshops and staff houses and
constructing 11 and improving 9 Farm Service Centers for distribution of
inputs and services.
Institutional Support
-      Providing for 2 management structure with the required technical and
administrative staff, logistical support and funds to implement the project;
evaluating project progress and providing guidelines for future projects; and
-      Providing funds for both formal and informal training of all levels of staff.
Consultancy
-      Providing to Kwara State Government consultant services to assist the
Ministry of Agriculture (MANR) to review state agricultural policies and
strategies; provide technical consultancy on agricultural management and
introduction of new technologies; prepare detailed plans for management
training and staff development programs; and assist MANR in start-up
operations for the project (60 man-months).
(b) Federal ComDonent
-       'Providing consultant services to assist FMAWR prepare 13 feasibility studies
for the agriculture and rural sector, including tree crops, food crops,
irrigation, marketing and national credit programs. A total of 65 man-years
was provided for the studies.
4.    'roJect Design and Organization
4.1   The design of the project drew heavily on the experience of the Bank financed
integrated agricultural development projects (ADPs) in Nigeria. These earlier projects were
considered successful and the appraisal mission for the project reported the significant gains
achieved in crop production. The preparation of the Ilorin project was, however, based on
questionable data, and that adversely affected the outcome of the project.
4.2   The key e:ements of the project's strategy were the "basic service package" (BSP) of
improved farming practices and inputs (e.g. planting densities, seeds and fertilizer), and the
"advanced service package" (ASP) consisting of tainimnum tillage techniques. These
innovations were to be disseminated by an organized system of agricultural services.
Supporting rural infrastructure was also to be constructed. The risk of introducing a new
technique like minimum tillage was recognized at appraisal, but because of its advantage in
maintenance of soil structure and fertility, and erosion control as well as reduced tractor



- 4 -
utilization, the risks were considered to be fully justified. However, the advanced technique
which included adoption by farmers of machines to reduce manual toil, required a higher farm
management system which was a vital but difficult ingredient. The sparse population in the
project area was also a hindrance to the delivery of the technical packages. To overcome
initial managerial constraints of state agricultural institutions, staffing included an important
input of senior expatriate personnel (such as project manager; and training, evaluation, and
land use planning officers). Some of the technology may have not been adequately tested and
adapted to thc iocal situation, even though the main reason for the reluctance of the farmers to
adopt new technology was the impact of the overvaluation of the local currency on domestic
food prices and food imports.
4.3   The SAR preparation was based on faulty baseline surveys that substantially
overestimated key project parameters; e.g. actual number of farm families in the project area
was later estimated at 65,000, instead of 120,000; the cultivated area at 120,000 ha instead of
300,000 ha, and the average farm size at 1.6 ha as opposed at 2.5 ha of the SAR. These data
inconsistencies represented a major design problem, and significantly reduced the usefulness
of the SAR for project implementation programming and for assessing performance of
physical and agricultural targets. In fact, a Bank supervision mission in August 1982 had
identified the lack of a sound agricultural development strategy as a hindrance to project
implementation. The mission had reported the need to make changes, particularly in adaptive
research where the program was not sufficiently relevant to the farming system in the area.
The ASP also appeared to be unsuited to Nigerian small farmer conditions. The extension
and commercial services needed to operate more within the focus of the existing small
farmers' system.
4.4   Since the project embraced a range of activities under the general responsibility of
different ministries, the Ilorin Project Management Unit (IPMU) was created as a
semiautonomous management unit within Kwara state's Ministry of Agriculture (MANR).
IPMU was accountable to the Ilorin Project Executive Committee (IPEC), responsible for
overall policy and annual work planning and for the appointment of senior staff. IPEC was
ch%ir&'* by the secretary of MANR, and included as members the Deputy Secretaries of State
Ministries of Finance, Economic Planning, Works and Transport, Trade, Industry and
Cooperatives, Locai Government and Community Development, and representatives from the
6 local governments and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
(FMAWR). The Ilorin Project Technical Coordinating Committee (IPTCC) was another
project-related entity designed to serve as a local coordinating unit, with representatives of the
local government councils, project technical staff, and selected farmers. It was to participate
in decisions on land use planning and the location of farm service centers and roads.
4.5   The planned organizational structure, though apparently cumbersome, was consistent
with the coordinating ard overall decisior. miaking requirements of the federal, state and local
governments. Organizaticnal problems resulted not so much from the proposed structure as
the way in which it was implemented and from the lack of government commitment to the
project. Thus, the IPEC was not composed of the expected high level representatives,
implying lack of interest of the Secretaries of State Ministries, and hence had little influence.
Besides, the IPTCC was never created, thereby reducing the involvement of the local
government councils. The lack of incentives for private sector participation in providing
agricultural services was duly recognized even before project appraisal. The services were in
the hands of the public sector and it was clear from the outset that the Government would



need to divest itself of development components that can be handled by private enterprise.
Towards the end of the project execution, with the active encouragement of the Bank, a large
number of Farm Service Centers (FSCs) were leased out to the private sector and vehicles of
the Tractor Hire Unit were sold to private operators.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   Project implementation was characterized by a delayed start-up and a slow pace of
execution; the pervasively inadequate counterpart funding; the lack of coherence and
coordination of project agricultural activities; deficient project management; and poor
monitoring and evaluation. Contrary to the intended emphasis, infrastructure development
activities became dominant while agricultural services diminished in relative importance.
Actual project implementation took about 9 years instead of the six years (including one year
of pre-project activities) estimated at appraisal. In its comments in paragraph 1.2, Part II, the
Borrower points out the improvements in project management at later stages of project
execution. While agreeing that few impact studies were conducted by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit, the Borrower maintains that the Unit operated fairly well in conducting many
useful surveys which contrasts with the Bank's assessment of the operation.
5.2   Implementation started after a 4-month delay in the fulfillment of loan effectiveness
conditions, and, due to late recruitment of key project staff, the project became operational
about one year afterwards. Loan draw-down was slow at the beginning and Federal
Government (FGN) funding was systematically delayed. Financing by the State Government
(KWSG) was also erratic and several consecutive quarterly payments were not made,
reflecting its low commitment to the project. In 1984, the State Government initiated an
inquiry on the status of the project, and all funding was stopped during the year until after the
release of the panel's report. Funding problems were compounded by the chronic losses
incurred for the heavily subsidized operations of fertilizer distribution, tractor hire and land
clearing. In addition, KWSG funding was not entirely incremental. Since the project
included a large number of seconded staff whose salaries would have been paid by the State
even in the absence of a project, KWSG performance for counterpart funding on an
incremental basis was quite poor.
5.3   By the mid-term review (January 1983), the Bank considered IADP a "major problem
project" and put it in a "care and maintenance status." In view of paucity of funds, the
project management curtailed some activities and the Bank missions assisted in restructuring
the project. Discussions with the Government led to increase in Federal financing (25% of
project cost) and reduction in the state contribution (limited effectively to 20%). A new
category of loan disbursement was introduced (for the first time in a Bank-financed
agricultural project in Nigeria) to cover local staff salaries, equivalent to 27% of the total
loan. The final agreed extension of the loan closing date and reallocations of the
disbursement categories were made to support the transition to the follow-on MSADP II
project.
5.4   The inappropriateness of technological messages to real-life farming conditions and the
financial viability of agricultural enterprises was an important limiting factor in attaining the
objectives of the IADP. The project's expected technological and economic impact was based
on on-station research results which turned out not to be applicable in practice. Adoption
rates for both the BSP and the ASP packages were thus overly optimistic. Trials were



- 6 -
conducted by the project on several varieties of crops, but gave insufficient attention to mixed
cropping systems which were the prevalent farming systems in the project area. On-farm
adaptive research was not conducted. The only element of the BSP of widespread
acceptability was the use of fertilizer, mainly due to its substantial and continued subsidy.
The seed multiplication programme was insignificant. In addition to weak extension-research
interaction, coordination with other services did not develop.
5.5   Lack of appropriate and sufficient training and supervision of the extension staff,
coupled with the inadequate organization and an insufficient number of extensionists,
significantly limited the number of effectively assisted farmers and the quality of the service
itself. Extension contact with farmers did not take place at the required frequency. Only
about 10% of area's farmers had contact with extension. Progress in the field of land use
planning, farm management and extension, were seriously hampered by the late arrival of
crucial supervisory staff. By the end of 1983, no coherent agricultural operational plan to
coordinate the various services had been produced. The farm management unit, created with
a staff of only five to provide advisory services to large scale farmers and cooperatives, was
closed down in 1984 since the concept was not well understood within IPMU. In paragraph
1.3 of its comments in Part 11, the Borrower agrees with the assessment of inadequacy in
training and number of extension staff but maintains that the decentralized organization was
appropriate for extension work.
5.6   Fertilizer availability was generally a project constraint. Deliveries were irregular and
the amounts procured fluctuated due to erratic federal government allocations, while the
distributed formulations were not the most appropriate for the area's crops. There was a
systematic lack of coordination between extension and commercial services units on fertilizer
quantities and formulations required by the farmers. No data from the field was ever
systematically generated to estimate local demand.
5.7   The building construction program was drastically reduced and delayed because of
problems in deciding on the location of the headquarters. The decision on building the Malete
headquarters was delayed until 1985, and the scope was ever,tually curtailed and limited to
workshops and quarters for the mechanical engineering staff. The road construction
programme was carried out without any plan of priorities, although it did achieve its
quantitative target. In contrast, accomplishments in road maintenance were about a quarter of
those intended. The Borrower agrees with this assessment of the roads programme (para. 1.4
of Part II).
5.8   Delayed, insufficient and uncertain funding prevented any systematic planning,
budgeting and programming of project activities, while reducing -and at times paralyzing- the
actions of the technical services. Political interference with project management generated
problems with the selection of personnel and the location of the headquarters. Project
management paid inadequate attention to the systematic monitoring of project performance
through key project indicators (e.g. services and inputs provided, number of farmers
contacted and project impact on agricultural production). The village listings and other
surveys were conducted without any clear management purpose, and their execution was not
properly supervised (See the Borrower's disagreement on this point in para. 1.5 of Part II).
The expatriate senior evaluation officer left his post early (1982). In addition, data were not
collected on a statistically sound basis which would have made it possible to identify the
differential impact of the project on beneficiary groups. Project records and reporting lacked



- 7 -
quality and substance. The mid-term review was conducted by an academic external
consultancy which had to carry out its own sample surveys. On the other hand, cost
accounting (sources of income and applications of funds) was carried out to professional
standards. The overall training programme functioned relatively well, despite funding
constraints. Some staff attended seminars and courses at ARMTI, APMEPU and IITA, while
others received in-house training. Twenty eight senior staff were sent for training overseas.
By 1984, all project units were under the responsibility of Nigerian staff.
5.9   The 1984 report of a panel of inquiry set by the state government to "identify the
causes of the failure of the project to improve smallholder crop production" did not find any
specific wrongdoing beyond identifying implementation problems, some of which were
internal and others out of projcct's control: it pointed to "political interference with project
activities, polarization of activities within the project and inadequate funding". The rephasing
of project activities proposed in 1985 by the borrower as a basis for its requests for the first
extension of the closing date included, at the instigation of the Bank, a number of measures to
improve project efficiency and financial rationalization, including a reduced and better
qualified number of extension workers, full cost recovery in land development, the closing of
40 FSC in 1985 and examination of the cost effectiveness of the remaining 36 (encouraging
increased use of private entrepreneuts in input retailing), spot improvement and maintenance
of the feeder road network instead of new road construction, and privatization of all tractors
over a period of two years. The revised disbursement schedule (covering the remaining 28%
of the original loan amount) contemplated an accelerated implementation pace. However, it
took IADP two additional one-year extensions to draw down most of the rest of the loan.
6.    Proect Results
6.1   Owing largely to an unfavorable incentive environment, the project failed to develop a
sound agricultural programme which brought benefits to smallholders. Their traditional
farming systems remained essentially unchanged. The project was expected to actually
achieve only 20% of the incremental production that had been estimated in the SAR.
However, no incremental yield or production could possibly be attributed to the project's
agricultural services. And while physical indicators of infrastructure development show some
resemblance to the original targets, no institutional arrangements were created which would
guarantee maintenance. The SAR had estimated the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
to be 24%. Inconsistencies in the project management records and reporting, and
questionable data on agricultural output do not allow a meaningful estimation, at project
completion, of the farmers' actual financial gains or of the economic returns to the overall
investment. Farm income increased in response to fertilizer use, but these gains were largely
in response to the continued heavily subsidized fertilizer price. The project targeted the
increase in the use of fertilizer to 14,000 tons per year; the actual amount distributed reached
on average of about half the SAR estimate. Fertilizer outlets reached 81, many more than
envisioned at appraisal, but their operation was inefficient and became a recurrent financial
burden on the project's budget. Since there was a price subsidy of about 70%, some of the
fertilizer recorded as sold in the project may have leaked across the country's borders instead.
In the same way, the tractor hiring unit never became an efficient or financially viable
operation. It started operations in July 1982 with 80 tractors (20 new) and 80 tractor staff
seconded from MANR. While the SAR expectations were to plough and ridge 7,000 ha per
annum, the actual average during 1981-86 was of the order of 1,000 ha per annum. Service



- 8 -
charges were set at about 20% of the real cost of the operation, and the implicit subsidy
benefitted mostly medium and large farmers.
6.2   In spite of these problems, the project had the effect of starting rural developmental
efforts in the state. It mobilized important resources for the construction of rural feeder roads
and farm service centers that facilitated farm-to-market transport and the distribution of
fertilizer. Thus, there were useful gains in vehicle and transport cost savings plus additional
economic activity induced by improved infrastructure. Manpower development through
formal staff training, and, most importantly, through the assumption of managerial
responsibility by the Nigerians after the departure of the expatriate staff, was a significant
achievement of the project. The accumulated experience of the project management unit
provided an institutional foundation for the state-wide expansion of activities under the follow-
on project MSADP II. The organizational structure and the experience acquired in the
delivery of extension and other services has proved to be of value to the Kwara state
smallholders. More recent assessments by Bank missions of overall performance of the
management of the state-wide ADP is very positive and indicate that it has profited from the
IADP. State Government funding constraints, however, continue to pose problems in project
execution.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1   The macro-economic conditions were not favorable to ensuring project sustainability.
These conditions later became favorable (subsequent to 1986), and farmers are now readily
adopting the new technologies, resulting in an increase in food production. The project,
however, could have been more sustainable if: (i) its technological packages had been
tailored to prevailing economic conditions; and (ii) local government prepared for a bigger
role in maintenance of rural infrastructure. With regard to (ii), the project failed to promote
building of local government organizations and their capacity through proper staff training.
Tractor hire, machinery services and the Farm Service Centres were transferred to private
operators who are providing a more effective and sustainable service. Any gains achieved at
the completion of the project would almost certainly have been lost without the infusion of
additional resources under the follow-up MSADP II.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   At the time of Board approval the country's economic prospects were already
worsening, and the counterpart funding risks were recognized by the Bank staff as the main
issue. However, the Bank proceeded with a project design which was unduly ambitious. The
Bank also assumed that there would be widespread adoption of technologies which had not
been tested at the farm level in this part of the country. Risks in this regard were not fully
assessed. Bank supervision missions detected early the main political, technical and financial
issues and problems, and rated the project accordingly. Improved criteria on cost-
effectiveness and other conditions were eventually introduced as a basis for agreements of
loan closing extensions and reallocations of disbursement categories. The Borrower, in
paragraph 2 of Part II, states that the Bank supervision missions were below expectation. It is
true that this problem project deserved more resources from the Bank in terms of mission
composition, with enough technical skills to advise the project staff and at least three visits
per year. This the Bank failed to do. It is not known whether more intensive supervision
was not accorded to the project because of budgetary constraints within the supervising Bank



- 9 -
division. The Bank had res,ponded positively to ease the projects' cash flow prob'ems by
financing 75% of local staff salaries from the loan and increasing the disbursement percentage
on civil works from 45% tO 80%. However, in the prevailing macro-econorl:ic situation in
Nigeria, and the state of the finances of the Government, the Bank's options were very
limited.
9.    Borrower's Perfo. mance
9.1   Borrower performance was characterized by delays in the fulfillrnent of conditions
stipulated in the legal documents, mainly those pertaining to timely and appropriate funding.
The recruitment and selection of staff was also delayed due to the bureaucratic procedures that
had to be followed. Political interference in the appointment of Nigerian staff in the project
and infringement of the authority of the Project Executive Committee were demoralizing to
the project management. In spite of these problems, the relationship between the Government
and the Bank was cordial. Loan closing, extension and reallocations of disbursement
categories were conducted under a common understanding of project problems and
constraints, and with a shared objective of accelerating implementation. In paragraph 3 of
Part II, the Borrower attributes some of the delays encountered in the proiect to the Bank's
cumbersome conditionalities and the project's design deficiencies.
9.2   Project management's working relationship with both the State and local Government
officials was conducive to solving the numerous political problems .that arose. The team spirit
was generally good. The management, however, often failed to plan in advance and also
provide a clear sense of direction. Project reporting was unsatisfactory. A satisfactory
accounting system was set up and procurement of heavy plant and vehicles had taken place
cost effectively. Road construction equipment was used in a most efficient manner. The
project agricultural research station worked well and liaised effectively with other research
stations and project extension staff.
10.   Consulting Services
10.1  Data on actual man-months utilization of consultancy services were not provided, but
total loan disbursement on that category - which also includes expatriate staff salaries and
overseas training - reached US$2.3 million, or 54% of the expected US$4.2 million at
appraisal. Similarly, for the feasibility studies of the "federal component", US$3.8 million
were disbursed, or 79% of the SAR target. The studies carried out under the federal
component served effectively as a base for the preparation of the several components of
follow-on ADP-type projects. Consultancy services were reported to have been undertaken by
persons with acceptable qualifications and experience. However, due to inadequate training
given by expatriates to local counterpart staff, the handing over of responsibility by the
expatriate staff was not smooth.
11.   Project Documentation and Data
1.    Project covenants were clearly stipulated for effective implementation. The project
and its SAR were, however, based on faulty baseline data, and misjudgments on several
aspects of project design, thereby diminishing the relevance of the document for project
implementation.



- 10 -
12.   Flndings and Lessons Learned
12.1  Lessons derived from the IADP experience are of relevance to both the Borrower and
the Bank, and these are summarized below:
(a)    Political commitment, translated into adequate counterpart fuiding, is a key
element for successful planning and implementation. In the absence of such
commitment, it is doubtful whether significant and sustainable benefits can be
achieved. Similarly, the local governments must not only have the resolve,
but also the access to resources to undertake rural project infrastructure
maintenance. Institutional arrangements in that direction should be created
prior to construction.
(b)    The design and content of an agricultural improvement program must take
account of the macro economic situation in the country; if an overvalued
currency favors imports over domestic production, farmers would have no
incentive to invest in new technology.
(c)    Technological packages should reflect farmers' needs within the prevailing
socio-economic framework and agro-climatic conditions. Planning and
organizational arrangements for extension activities should be undertaken at an
early stage during project implementation, and expansion should be linked to
the generation of relevant messages.
(d)    Likewise, implementation of the project should focus first on the development
of an implementation capacity, comprising managerial skills and the field
organization of services. Only after the development of such implementation
capacity should activities targeted at the farmer be implemented in earnest.
(e)    Consistent baseline data should be generated at a very early stage of the
project. Maraigement should ensure that systematic efforts for project
monitoring and evaluation are made throughout implementation.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_ (LOA  1668-UND
EART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Comment on Analysis Contained in Part I of the Draft PCR
1.1   The analysis on Project Identification, Background, Project objectives and design
which are contained in paragraphs 1 to 4 are acceptable.
1.2   The statement in paragraph 5. 1. Page 5 of draft PCR that project implementation
characterized by deficient project management, monitoring and evaluation was correct
especially at the early stage of implementation. Later in the project life the Ilorin Project
Executive Committee (IPEC) and Ilorin Project Management Committee (IPMU) made efforts
to perform their functions as specified in SAR paragraphs 5.42, 5.43 and 8.03. This is
reflected in the number of meetings they convened during the project implementation, which
were indications of high responsiveness of the organization in the day to day running and
coordination of activities of the project, and in the determination of the overall policy of the
project. On Monitoring and Evaluation, though the Chief Planning Officer was not on board
early, its activities commenced in 1979/80 with the conduct of thumbnail survey (Village
Listing and Baseline Surveys) followed by yearly agronomic surveys which provided
assessment of crop yields. The section conducted 28 ad-hoc surveys based on project
management needs. Despite the fact that SAR did not make articulate provision for Planning
and Monitoring positions, computer facilities and field staff, the section operated fairly well
with recommendation from APMEPU. The section, however, conducted little impact studies
as noted in the draft PCR.
1.3  In regard to the statement in paragraph 5.6 Page 5 that inadequate organization was
one of the reasons of poor performance of extension, it should be noted that SAR did not
make any provision on organization set up. However, during the project implementation the
section operated a decentralized organizational system which was found conducive for
extension activities. The major problems were insufficient number of extensionists, lack of
appropriate training and absence of proven technology on mixed cropping.
1.4   The statement in paragraph 5.8. Page 7, that the road construction programme was
carried out without any plan setting priorities was fairly correct. Though, the Ilorin Project
Technical Coordinating Committee IPTCC which was supposed to integrate the LGCs in the
Determination of road priorities was not formed, there was a Management Planning
Committee which was charged with the responsibility of drawing up road programs and
determining road selection and priorities.



- 12^ -
1.5   The statement in paragraph 5.9 Page 7 that the Village Listing Survey was conducted
without any clear management purpose and that the execution was not properly supervised
was not correct. The village Listing was conducted to determine the actual number of farm
families, settlement pattern, major occupation and availability of infrastructural facilities in the
project area in project year zero. These assisted management in the location of FSCs, rural
roads etc. The survey was conducted under close supervision and technical assistance from
APMEPU.
2.    Bank Performance During Evolution and Implementation of the Proiect
2.1   The Bank supervision missions during implementation of the projects have been below
expectation in terms of local input and frequency. Later involvement of FACU addressed
local input problem to a great extent, but Ilorin ADP benefitted very little from this
arrangement as the project had virtually ended. Despite these, the Bank was very helpful and
flexible in bailing out the project, especially when counterpart funding proved to be a serious
constraint.
3.    Borrower's Performance
3.1   The PCR on Ilorin ADP is very critical of project performance. The main areas of
adverse comments are delays in loan effectiveness due to delay in meeting the conditions
precedent to effectiveness and the recruitment of key personnel. As we have stated in other
PCR's, the conditions precedent to project effectiveness and draw down are cumbersome and
often difficult to meet. More than one Ministry at both Federal and State levels were
involved and to get all of them to comply with conditionalities took time. In the case of
MSADP II & III, we put in place measures to cut the time but found that delays still
occurred. The Bank should make the conditionalities less cumbersome in future.
3.2   The Project had design deficiencies particularly in baseline data and assumptions.
Thus the Project was unable to attain SAR targets. The Project also took a long time to
complete. While Federal Government's support for the Project was never in doubt, the State
Government's political will to implement the Project was not manifestly strong. It should be
noted, however, that the lessons learnt from Ilorin ADP have been considered in preparing
the Statewide Kwara State ADP.
4.    Relationship Between Bank and Borrowers
4.1   The relationship was good. Activities were carried out under a common understanding
with shared objectives of accelerating implementation.
Department of Agriculture
Federal Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources.
28th June. 1991



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1668-UNI)
---------------------------------------
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
_________ ____________
YEAR OF
LOAN             PURPOSE         APPROVAL         STATUS
Loan 1838-UNI          Enclave            1980    Projtct completed
oyo North              ADP                         PCR prepared.
Loan 1881-UNI          Statewide          1981    Project completed
Bauchi State           ADP                         PCR prepared.
Loan 1982-UNI          Statewide          1981    Project completed
Kano State             ADP                         PCR prepared.
Loan 2733-UNI          Multi-state        1986    Ongoing
MSADP I                ADP
Loan 2988-UNI          Multi-state        1989    Ongoing
MSADP II               ADP
2. Project Timetable
Date            Date            Date
Planned        Revised          Actual
Identification                                            10/76
Preparation                                              2-8/77
Appraisal Mission                                         11/77
Loan NegotLations                                         11/78
Board Approval                                            3/79
Loan Signature                                            9/79
Loan Effectiveness   17 December 1979                     4/80
Completion          December 1384         (*)             6/88
Loan Closing        30 June 1985          (*)             6/88
(*)  Project loan closing date was extended three times for a
total of 36 months. The last extension was approved to
facilitate the transition to MSADP 1, the follow-on
project.



- 14 -
3.  Di_bsmm
Cumulative Estitnted and Actual Disbursements (USS m.illion}
FY80  EY8    EY82  EX         EXPA   E8    EY86        FY87    FY88  Ym9
Appraisal
Estimate            3.7   12.7   17.7   22.1   25.2   27.0
Actual                0       6    10.1   12.7   16.3   19.S   21.7   23.6   25.0 26.7
Actuals .
of Estimate         0%    47%    57%    57%    65%    72%    80%    87%    93%  99%
Date of Final Disbursement: December 22, 1988
4. FoPow-o Pwect
Name:     Multi-State Agricultural Development Project II
Loan No.: LN.2988-UNI
Loan Amount/Project Cost: US$85.2 million/US$150.0
Dates of Board Approval and Effectiveness: August 25, 1988/
November 16, 1989
Comments: The project would provide assistance to Gongola,
Kwar and Niger states and to the Bauchi ADP in
(i) strengthening extension services/adaptive
research; (ii) supporting small-scale irrigation;
(iii) upgrading/maintaining ural roads; and
(iv) strengthening of agricultural institutions.
The project would also support the Agricultural
and Rural Management Institute (ARMTI).



- 15 -
Agraisal Estimate        Actual
(a) Farm and Crop Development
- Improved Farming Practices
(Basic Service Package)
Area Development (ha)                                         74,000              0
- Advanced Service Package
Area Development (ha)                                         12,000              0
- Land Clearing (ha)                                            9,600          7,000
- Soil Conservation Terraces (km)                               4,300            650
- Project Beneficiaries
BSP. Small Farmer Families (No)                               88,000         35,000
fertilizer users
- ASP. Medium Farnwr Families (No)                              1,800          6,000
extension
beneficiaries
Research
Applied Research Station (No)                                      1              1
Fertilizer Distribution (tons)                                14,000          7,000
(per year at full development)                                          (avg. per yr.)
(b) Civil Works
Roads (km)
Feeder Road Construction                                         200            223
Road Improvement                                                 100            132
Road Maintenance                                               1,000            261
Staff Houses Construction (No)
Senior Staff                                                      15              2
Intermediate                                                      79              8
Junior Staff                                                     102             20
- Farm Service Centers (No)
New                                                               11             50
Improved                                                           9             31
- Mechanical Workshop (No)                                          1              1
- Training Center (No)                                              1              0
- Guest House (No)                                                  0              1
- Seed Fam Building and
other Buildings (No)                                               5              6
- Officies Floor Space (m2)                                     2,000          1,586



- 16 -
6. Prict Coeb ad Fmancinf
A. Proiect Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Local      FE     Totl    ocal        FE     Total
State Component          34.0     22.4     56.4    34.9      23.0     57.9
Federal Component         3.2      4.8      8.0       0       3.7      3.7
Total                    37.2     27.2     64.4    34.9      26.7     61.6
Percent                   58        42      100      57        43      100
B. Proiect Financing
(USS million)
Estimated           Percent  Actual  Percent
Federal Govermment       17.6                27    17.3        28
State Governent          19.8                31    17.6        29
World Bank               27.0                42    26.7        43
Total                    64.4               100    61.6       100



- 17 -
C. Allocation and Use of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
First   Second
Estimated            Revised   Revised    Actual
Cate2ory             Amount   9%         A         Amount  Amount 
Buildings, Civil
Works, Furnishings         4.5        17       6.5       0.8      0.79        3
Vehicles, Equip-
ment Tractors,
Spares                     6.6        24       7.6      10.5      11.0       41
International Con-
sultants and staff
Salaries, Overseas
Training                   4.2        16       1.9       1.9       2.3        8
Future Projects,
Feasibility
Studies                    4.6        17       4.6       3.9       3.8       14
Fertilizer,
Chemicals, Other
Farm Inputs                4.9        18       0.9       2.4       1.7        7
Local Staff Salaries         -         0       5.0       7.5       7.2       27
Unallocated                2.2         8       0.5         -         -        0
Total                     27.0       100      27.0      27.0      26.7      100
Comments: Revised allocations took place in January 1983 and June 1987.
7. PtojectResuts
No consistent data are available on direct project
impact, but, if there was any impact on agricultural output and
fanners' income, it was clearly very limited and largely derived
from improved infrastructure.



- 18 -
8. Status of Covenants
Subiect/Covenant    &=
FUNDING/COST RECOVERY
LA 3.01             The Borrower to carry out the project in conformity with
administrative, financial and agricultural practices; and to provide
prompt/adequate funding/resources to the project.
- Inadequate, Untimely.
LA 3.03             The Borrower to provide-for/pay IPMU quarterly contributions, 3
months in advance, based on an approved annual budget.
- Inadequate, Untimely.
PA 2.02 a, ii       KWSG to authorize and guarantee overdraft facilities for 6 month
expenditures of IPMU and to pay quarterly contributions 3 months in
advance.
- Inadequate, Untimely.
PA 2.02 a, iv       KWSG to maintain pre-project level of financing in project area, in
addition to IADP requirements.
- Inadequate.
LA 3.04             The Borrower to pay IPMU by Sept. 30 each year advanced ftstimated
subventions to cover next year's cost of farm inputs/services'
subsidies.
- Inadequate.
PA 2.10 b           IPMU to sell all inputs (other than those subsidized by the borrower
or KWSG) and provide tractor services to farmers at full cost recovery
prices.
- Highly subsidized. Partial cost recovery.
PA 2.10 c           Farmers to pay annual land development scheme fees of N15.0, for 3
years, and N21.0, thereafter.
- Highly subsidized. Partial recovery.



- 19 -
PROCUREMENT
LA 2.03             Fertilizer procurement for the project:
1. to be separate, identifiable, governed by IBRD's approved
procurement procedures;
2. to be monitored by FMG and the Bank to avoid procurement
slippage;
3. within 2 years after the loan signature FMG and .BRD to review
its procurement procedures.
PA 2.05 b          IPMU to request promptly project's fertilizer requirements to Central
Fertilizer Unit of FMAWR, an to procure directly other farm inputs.
- Project terminated its direct fertilizer procurement programme
early during implementation.
STAFFING AND CONSULTANTS
LA 3.02             The Borrower to employ experienced/qualified consultants in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
- Satisfactory.
PA 2.03 a           KWSG to employ, inter alia, project staff: Project Manager, Chief
Accountant (condition of effectiveness), and Senior training officer by
31 December 1979.
- Delayed selection and hiring.
PA 2.03 b          KWSG to promptly recruit IPMU staff and make MANR to second to
IPMU requested staff.
- Delayed recruitment.
PA 2.11 c           KWSG to transfer responsibilities to IPMU of all agricultural
extension work (by April 1, 1980).
- Satisfactory.
PROJECT REVIEW/MONITORING AND EVALUATION
LA 3.05             FMG, KWSG and the Bank to review and make recommendations for
the future of the project (by 31 December 1982).
- KWSG prepared report by end-1984.
PA 2.07 b           IPMU to maintain records/monitor progress of the project and keep
accounts identifying goods/services financed by the loan.



- 20 -
- Accounting statements: satisfactory; project impact recording and
reporting: highly inadequate.
PROJECT EFFECTIVENESS
LA 6.01 a-d         Execution/ratification of subsidiary loan agreement; IPMU's
commercial bank account established with an initial deposit by KWSG
of N$ 1.0 million; IPEC, IPMU, IPTCC duly established; and Project
Manager and Chief Accountant appcinted.
- Severe delays in achieving effectiveness conditions. IPTCC was
never established.
OTHER
PA 2.11 b           KWSG to make available to IPMU 120 ha of land (by 31 December
1979).
- Satisfactory.
PA 2.12             KWSG to prepare and agree with the Bank on long-term road
maintenance plan (by 30 June 1983).
- No plan was ever produced.



- 21 -
9. Uns of(B Rew.
A. Staff Inouts
STAFF INPUTS (Staff Weeks)
FY77 FY78  FY79  FY80   FY81    FY82   FY83   FY84  FYS5  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89
Preapprsisal      50O
Appraisal               50O
Negotiations                  15I
Supervision                   10*         10- J*   11.8   9.9 5.7   11.6   7.7 8.7    5.4    1.0
TOTAL             50* 50*   25*    10' 10    11 .8   9.9 5.7   11.6   7.7 8.7    5.4    1.0
'Tnese are estintates. Actual data are not available.
B. Mission Data
Date     No. of   Man-day   Specializations     Performance                Types of
Mission           (molyr)  Persons   in Field    Represented a/    Rating b/        Trend c/ Problems d/
Identification     10/76          4        92       a,b
Preappraisal      2/77            S       150   a,d,c,e
Apprisl            11/77          4       120      a,e,f
Supervision  1    6/79            2         6       a,g                 I
Supervision 2     3/80            2         4       d,b                 2                  2        0
Supervision 3     9/80             2        7       a,b                 2                  2      P,F
Supervision  4     10/80           2       12       a,b                 2                  1      F,T
Supervision 5      12/80           2       14       *,c                 2                  1      F,T
Supervision 6     3/81             2       11       b,d                 2                  2      P,T
Supervision 7     6/81             1        5        d                  2                  1      P.F
Supervision 8      12/81           2       12       a,b                 2                  1      F,T
Sul,ervision 9    7/82             2       21       a,c                 2                  1      F,T
Supervision 10    2/83             1       14       s,c                 3                  3      F,T
Supervision 11     11/83           1        4        a                  3                  2        F
Supervision 12    8/84             1        8         a                 3                  2    P,T,F
Supervision 13     12/84           1        2        a
Supervision 14    2/85             3        6     s,b,b                 -                  -    P,T,F
Supervision 15    6/85             1        4        a                  2                  2
Supetvision 16    8/85             2       10        h                3 e/                 -
Supervision 17     1/86            4       20       b,c               3 e/                 -
Supervision 18     10/86           2       12       a,i               3 e/
Supervision 19    4/87             4       12       a,b               3 e/
Supervision 20    6/87             1        7        c                3 e/                 -
Supervision 21     11/87           1        2         a               3 e/                 -
a/      a - Agriculturist; b- Financial Analyst; c- Agricultural Economist; d- Engineer;
e- Commercial Services Specialist; f- Livenock Specialist; g- Personnel/Management Specialist;
h- Credit Specialist; i= Operations Assisunt
b/      I - Problem free or minor problems; 2- Moderate problems; 3- Major problems
e/     'I - Improving; '2 = Stationary; '3 = Deteriorating
d/      F- Financial; M- Management; T- Technical; P= Political; O= Other
e/      New Fofm 590 in use that shows mting for overall status



B1RD 13495
_                 -                      ILORIN AGRICULT RAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_'                            >         ttPror,osed Development  Infrostructurz and Land Planning Areos
_t--  -  Pe *'    b.,ndo -
^  F             r~~~~/                         ,                           /                                              =    FAa o rCadco S
- - -  |- |> -                                                                                                                         MAPc.d CDAds
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _ Oke, 'cods
A                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
- .                                                                                     -                -d
/     AIpgbede     j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;      }       ~       ~       ~      ~       d
lg'  .,c A \ Ub                     \  ij3 eodqoorrers
_ -  w      # jr                                    /-               \                            1,         k                            t~ ~ --- 
I so \ X <. B CRUP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSI,ftf, A,y.01
i~ ~~~91o~~~ j' fri                                                                                                     'Beo
- _    _        _ _  _ _     _ _  __o<  ~  i _  _ _                                                                            _ _
Aqb.nd ~      -7Cr:Eg: 
IA,eea ~ 5-,.p,,o slo  2Oj ,,.OlloO    20
'0LMEER lC0d-Ws&.s
-,c0 'Os l5  .s11 1.1H. .,OE



