Document of
The World Bank                    HL c
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2388-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
KWARA STATE
March 5, 1979
i This document ba. a nrdeted ditdbution and may be used by recIpents only In the performance of
their offcl dudes. Its contenb may not otherise be discloied witot World Bank anthorintlon.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1 - Naira 0.65
Ni - US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND , M,UMS
1 metric ton          -  0.98 long ton
1 long ton            =  1.017 metric ton
(- 2-,240 lbs..)
1 hectare             -  2.47 acres
1 acre                =  0.405 hectare
1 kilowetre (km)      =  0.62 mile
AabVIATIONS
APMEPU        -  Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation
and Planning Unit
ASP           -  Advanced Service Package
BSP           -  Basic Service Package
ER R             Economic. Rate of Return
FDA           -   ederal-Department of Agriculture
FMARD         -  Federal.Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMF           -  Federal Ministry of Finance
FMG           -. Federal Military Government
FSC           -  FarmuServ-ice Center
IPEC          -  Iloria Project-Executive Committee
IPMU          -  Ilorin.Project. Mnagemnit Unit
IPTCC         -  Ilorin Project Technical Coordination Committee
KWSG          -  Kw4ra State Government
LGC           -  Local Goverment Council
MANR          -  Ministry of-Agriculture and Natural Resources - Kwara
State
NACB          -  N4gerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
THU           -  Tractor Hire Unit
Figsal Year-
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:           Kwara State of Nigeria
Amount:                US$27 million, equivalent
Terms:                 Payable over 20 years including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       The Federal Government would onlend US$22.4 million
to the Kwara State Government on the same terms as the
Bank loan. The Federal Government would carry the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project would consist of a package of farm support
services and physical infrastructure designed to
benefit directly 90,000 farm families located in
the central part of Kwara State. Support services
would include extension advice, crop protection mea-
sures, improved seeds, fertilizers, and the provision
of credit facilities. Physical infrastructure would
include constructing and improving 300 km of gravelled
feeder roads, the maintenance of up to 1000 km of
feeder roads, the establishment of a project head-
quarters and the construction and improvement of 20
farm service centers. A project management unit with
appropriate technical and administrative staff would
be established to implement the project and to develop
guidelines for future projects. Facilities would be
provided for training both agricultural field staff
and senior specialists. Consultant services would be
engaged to review state agricultural policies and
prepare feasibility studies for a second phase project.
An additional sub-project component would be to
finance the preparation of 13 feasibility studies for
other agricultural projects which may be ready for
implementation after 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
Total         Foreign          Local
… -----    (US$ million)----------
Land Development Scheme                    3.9            1.6             2.3
Road Building                              4.9            2.0             2.9
General Extension Services                 4.8            0.9             3.9
Incremental Farm Inputs                   4.8             3.3             1.5
Advance Farm Management                    2.0            0.6             1.4
Administration and Support                 8.7            3.3             5.4
Commercial Services and Tractor Hire   8.6                3.2            5.4
Other Agricultural and
Training Services                       6.6             2.5            4.1
Feasibility Studies                        5.9            3.5            2.4
Subtotal                                 50.2            20.9           29.3
Less Pre-development Costs                 6.9             -             6.9
Total Base Costs                         43.3            20.9           22.4
Physical Contingencies                     2.1            1.0            1.2
Price Contingencies                       19.0            5.3           13.7
Total Project Costs                      64.4            27.2           37.2
1/   Columns may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Financing Plan:                         Total           Foreign         Local
-----------(US$ million)----------
IBRD                                     27.0            27.0             -
Federal Government                       17.6              -            17.6
Kwara State Government                    19.8             -            19.8
Total Project Costs                      64.4            27.0           37.4
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY         1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual         3.7      9.1     5.0      4.5      3.2      1.5
Cumulative    3.7    12.8    17.8    22.3    25.5    27.0
Rate of Return:       24 percent (for project excluding feasibility
studies)
Staff Appraisal
Report:            2087-UNI dated February 23, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA FOR AN
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN KWARA STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$27 million
to help finance a project for agricultural development in the area around
Ilorin in the Kwara State of Nigeria and to help finance feasibility studies
for 13 possible future agricultural projects. The loan would have a term of
20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
The Federal Government would relend US$22.4 million to the .Kwara State Govern-
ment on the same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Nigeria, Recent Economic Developments and
Short-Term Prospects" (Report 1690a-UNI), dated December 23, 1977, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. The following paragraphs summarize
the major conclusions of that report and update them on the basis of more
recent findings by an economic mission which visited Lagos in October/November,
1978. The report of this mission is expected to be distributed to the
Executive Directors in May, 1979. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        After 12 years of military regime, Nigeria is now embarking on
the final stages in its proposed program for a return to civilian rule.
The present military government is adhering closely to the plan, announced
in July 1975, for restoring constitutional government in 1979. In 1976/77
a new constitution was drafted and elections for local government councils
were held. The draft constitution was subsequently adopted by a Constituent
Assembly comprising mostly elected but partly nominated members. An
amended version was accepted by the Supreme Military Council and formally
promulgated in November of last year. The 12-year-old ban on political
parties and activities was lifted in October 1978, resulting in the upspring
of over 20 parties shortly thereafter. Only 5 of these parties met the
rules laid down by the Federal Military Government and will compete in the
elections of federal and state legislatures and of an executive president
during the course of this year, leading to a complete transfer of political
power to a civilian administration by October 1, 1979.
Economic Background
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 79 million (1977).  GNP per
capita is around US$420, which partly reflects the gain from increased oil
prices, and is higher than other indicators of the standard of living would
suggest. In terms of such criteria as life expectancy, child mortality and



- 2 -
number of people per physician, it ranks amongst the poorest countries in the
world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade, but not
until the sharp increase in the oil price in late 1973 did it acquire such a
dominating influence, surpassing the agricultural sector in all measures of
relative importance except employment; it now accounts for 80 percent of
government revenue and over 90 percent of export earnings. The oil boom gave
a major boost to economic activity and supplied the means for a huge develop-
ment effort. Nigeria launched an ambitious Third National Development Plan
(1975-80) which provided for a US$70 billion investment program. As a result
of the rapid rise in government expenditure, the non-oil sector grew at an
average of 11 percent per year and overall GDP at 6 percent over the four
years since 1973. However, the main sources of growth were construction
and the tertiary sectors, whereas investment and production in the directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture, has been lagging.
5.        The level of petroleum revenue, up from US$2.3 billion in 1973/74
to US$9.2 billion in 1977/78, has had a profound influence on the fiscal
situation. In the four-year period following 1973/74, recurrent expenditure
by the Federal Government increased from US$1.1 billion to US$4.2 billion, and
capital spending from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion. Public sector invest-
ment not only showed remarkable expansion in such traditional areas as trans-
port, communications, and power, but education and large-scale manufacturing
also received large allocations.
6.        The impact of the oil boom on the balance of payments has been
equally strong. Exports rose by 150 percent in 1974 and by mid-1975 foreign
exchange reserves amounted to US$6.2 billion. This permitted a rapid expan-
sion of imports which, by 1978, were at a level four times that reached in
1974.
Re-emergence of Financial Constraints
7.        Projections in 1975 did not indicate a reversal of the country's
resource position until 1980, yet the first signs of a turnaround appeared
already late in 1975, and the financial constraint tightened towards the
end of 1977. The re-emergence of a resource gap has in fact been more
rapid and drastic than expected. The cause is a combination of two major
factors: on the one hand, lower than expected oil exports due to a surplus
of light crude on the world market and, on the other hand, the inability
of the Government to adjust expenditure to available resources.
8.        So rapidly did Government expenditure rise that already in 1975/76
the federal budget showed an overall deficit of US$2.6 billion; the situation
deteriorated further with the deficit reaching US$3.3 billion in 1977/78.
State Governments' budgets were also in deficit. Initially, the Federal
Government was able to draw upon its previously accumulated balances, but now
that they have been depleted, domestic borrowing, largely through the banking
system, has financed the additional requirements. More recently, external
borrowing has assumed greater importance as a source of finance.



9.        With public sector investment accounting for 70 percent of total
investment, and total Government expenditure around 43 percent of GDP, the
strain on the administrative resources of the Government has been enormous.
The severe shortage of skilled manpower, in addition to physical bottlenecks,
seriously limited the extent to which Nigeria's oil wealth could be effectively
utilized within a short period.
10.       Having reached 2.25 million barrels per day (mbpd) in 1974, oil
production has since then fluctuated at significantly lower levels. In the
first quarter of 1978 production fell sharply to 1.5 mbpd mainly because
Nigeria maintained a relatively high price in the face of intense competition
*         from the newer sources of oil, e.g. the North Sea and Alaska.  Though produc-
tion is now back at a level of around 2 mbpd, the average output for 1978 did
not exceed 1.9 mbpd.
11.       As a result of the stagnation in oil production and the heavy import
demand, the balance of payments recorded an overall deficit from 1976 onwards.
This reflects a basic change in the balance of trade. Whereas oil exports
in 1978 were roughly the same as in 1974, imports have more than quadrupled
and, consequently, the current account is expected to show a deficit of US$4.3
billion in 1978. Foreign exchange reserves fell gradually to US$4.2 billion
at the end of 1977, then dropped rapidly to US$1.9 billion by the end of 1978,
the equivalent of only 7 weeks imports.
12.       There can be little doubt that the rapid expansion of Government
expenditure has contributed to a high level of inflation in recent years.
The increase in the cost-of-living averaged 26 percent per year between 1975
and 1977, and is unlikely to have dropped below 20 percent in 1978. Severe
port congestion and internal distributional bottlenecks have prevented liberal
import policies from being more effective in dampening inflation. The domestic
rate of inflation has been considerably higher than that of Nigeria's main
trading partners, and consequently the competitive position of domestic pro-
ducers of traded goods is thought to have been seriously weakened.
Recent Measures and Short-Term Outlook
13.       The Government has recognized the deteriorating financial position
and, over the last two years, has introduced a series of measures aimed in
particular at curbing inflation and strengthening the balance of payments.
Monetary policy measures included ceilings on bank credit and a rise in
interest rates in two stages by up to two percent. Investment in agriculture
and oil exploration was encouraged through fiscal incentives. While the offi-
cial oil export price was lowered by 5 percent early in 1978, the price of
domestic fuel was raised by about 60 percent. The principal measures,
however, were the introduction of an austere budget in 1978 together with
extensive import restrictions. The revised Federal Government budget
estimates for 1978/79 provide for a cut of 5 percent in recurrent expendi-
ture, and of 32 percent in capital expenditure compared to last year's
actual outlays. In addition to the imposition of substantially higher
import duties, a wide range of consumer goods as well as intermediate goods
were either banned or licensed. These restrictions were further tightened
in October, 1978. The Government also successfully raised two large
Euro-currency loans amounting to a total of US$1.75 billion.



- 4 -
14.       While the Government is continuing to experience serious financial
limitations, and last year's measures have not yet become fully effective,
the financial situation appears to be stabilizing. The budget deficit in
1978/79 has been greatly reduced to about US$1.7 billion and, in view of the
large external loans, the recourse to borrowing from the domestic banking
system is expected to be limited. Along with the substantial run down
of foreign exchange reserves that has already occurred, this is likely to
result in a sharp drop in monetary expansion, and should help to dampen
inflation. The balance of payments outlook, however, is less sanguine.
On the positive side, oil exports in 1979 will be considerably higher
following the recovery in oil production and the recently announced OPEC
price increase. The present uncertaintly in the world oil markets could
also work to Nigeria's advantage. In addition, the import restrictions
which had caused anticipatory purchases in 1978 should have an impact in
1979. On the other hand, no significant change is expected in non-oil
exports, and there is virtually no scope for further use of foreign ex-
change reserves. Moreover, external borrowing at the scale of 1978 is
unlikely to be maintained.
15.       The tighter financial position is also affecting the implementation
of the Third Plan (1975-1980). Its size has been gradually reduced, initially
due to a lack of administrative and executive capacity, which restricted
the rate of implementation, but more recently also as a result of resource
constraints. Against a Plan investment target of US$70 billion, the expected
actual capital expenditure over the five-year period may not exceed US$45 bil-
lion; in real terms the reduction is larger in view of substantial inflation.
Longer-Term Prospects and Policies
16.       The Government is in the midst of preparing the Fourth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85). Although the guidelines have not yet been made public, the
authorities have indicated that the next few years would be viewed as a
period of consolidation, as public sector investments are stabilized at the
current level, and the economy is restructured by stimulating the growth of
commodity producing sectors. Even with an unchanged level, gross domestic
investment would account for around 25 percent of GDP in 1985. Provided
investments are well conceived and effective, this rate should permit a
satisfactory growth of the economy, albeit more modest compared to recent
performance, with considerable potential for employment creation. However,
the principal constraint on future growth will be the balance of payments, and
the actual performance of the economy will depend on how successfully imports
are replaced by domestic production and non-oil exports stimulated. One
critical factor will be to ensure the competitiveness of domestic production
relative to foreign goods. This will require measures affecting the incentive
structure, including the establishment of a favorable cost and price structure,
as well as a change in investment priorities towards more directly productive
projects.
17.       The demand on the institutional and manpower resources of the public
sector in recent years has clearly been excessive. This accounts, in part, for
the relatively weak economic management and inefficiency in resource use.
However, the expected more modest investment effort should ease the strain
on the Government's administrative and managerial capacity. Furthermore, the



-5-
planned transition to civilian rule in October, 1979, is generally expected
to lead to a greater role for the private sector, thus easing what has been
one of the fundamental constraints to obtaining a higher return on the large
investment effort. Given Nigeria's solid resource base, it is thought that,
in spite of limitations in absorptive capacity, a medium-term growth of around
4-5 percent would be within reach.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
18.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing. The public guaranteed external debt outstanding (including
undisbursed) amounted to $1.3 billion at the end of 1977 and, mainly
because of the two Euro-currency loans, it amounted to $3.2 billion at end
of 1978. The service on this debt would rise to an average of $550 million
a year in the early 1980s, representing about 3 percent of the expected
export earnings. The World Bank's share in the external debt now is about
25 percent. The Government has indicated its reluctance to incur any more
syndicated loans, though it would continue to contract project financing
largely on commercial terms. Given the relatively low level of the existing
external debt and the Government's cautious approach to foreign borrowing,
the debt service ratio over the next ten years is unlikely to rise above
15 percent. Provided the Government is able to effectively implement
policies that will correct the current imbalance between aggregate demand
and supply and lead to improved resource use, Nigeria can be considered
creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of December 31, 1978 amounted
to US$942.9 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of December 31, 1978 was US$596.9 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$346.0 million. Transport and power together
account for about 43 percent of total commitments; agriculture for about 31
percent (most of which was committed in the last four fiscal years); and
education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining
26 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY77 were about
US$59 million, and US$51 million in FY78. Disbursements are expected to
increase during the next two years because of the rapid drawdown of the
remaining port and power loans. In the longer term, disbursements will
increase in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria for US$35.5 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made three loans to borrowers totalling US$3.6 million
and four equity investments totalling US$2.4 million. Of these amounts,
US$3.4 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in



- 6 -
consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third Plan,
which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and with its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
including the rural poor.
21.       In view of Nigeria's increasing need for external finance and the
interest it has expressed in greater Bank involvement, a greatly expanded
Bank lending program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to
lending in Nigeria, a central objective is to encourage the shift (already
discernable in the Federal Government's investment programming) away from
the massive and diffused infrastructure investment which characterized the
two or three years following the oil boom towards a more discriminating
support for growth in the commodity producing sectors. A second objective
of Bank lending is to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria.  This
objective has been actively pursued in recent agricultural projects which
benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of
this kind will continue to figure prominently in the future lending program.
A third objective of Bank lending is to support Government's efforts to
diversify the economy and reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum as
a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. Consequently, we hope to
develop some industrial projects of an explicitly export-oriented nature,
though our efforts are still at a rather preliminary stage. Agricultural
lending in particular will include strengthening the potential for export
crops such as cocoa.
22.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a positive contribution in power, highway maintenance, and water supply.
Project identification work is under way in all of these sectors. Strategic
support for the commodity producing sectors will also be given by lending
for education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical
and teacher training be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
Government's efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
be addressed through a number of urban development projects focussed on the
needs of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these
lines would be in keeping with the need to generate employment and would
support also the Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues
to ameliorate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector. Approximately 60
percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for their
principal source of employment and income.  Since, in the future, other



sectors will have only a limited absorptive capacity for additional labor,
the agricultural sector will continue to play a key role for some time to
come both as an employer and as a provider of foodstuffs for the rapidly
growing urban population. The importance of the agricultural sector is
manifest also by other indicators. Value added by agriculture accounts for
almost one-quarter of GDP and fully one-third if petroleum production is
excluded. Furthermore, over 60 percent of non-oil exports consist of agri-
cultural products.
24.       In terms of growth, the agricultural sector has been essentially
stagnant in recent years. Production has fluctuated significantly from
year to year, but there was no real growth of value added during the period,
1970-77. These years witnessed a marked decline in the export of traditional
agricultural products other than cocoa while imports of food rose from US$80
million to nearly US$1,200 million. At the same time food prices rose preci-
pitously as demand (a function of population and income growth) outstripped
domestic supply.
25.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of
smallholders whose levels of technology and productive efficiency are low.
The typical productive unit is a family farm of between 2 - 3 hectares.
Although there is regional specialization in the cultivation of cash crops
-- the tree-crop belt in the south and the groundnut and cotton belts in
the north -- almost every family grows some of its own food requirements.
Only a relatively small proportion of these food crops enters commercial
trade for shipment to other areas, the principal flow of such trade being
from the food crop belt in the middle of the country to the urban centers
and other food deficit areas of the south.
26.       Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against
a background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and
rising standards of education, both of which contrast sharply with the poor
returns to labor from traditional agriculture. This has encouraged the
drift of young people away from rural areas and has resulted in a sharp
rise in wage rates for hired labor. In the long run, a prosperous agricul-
ture capable of reducing this drift can be achieved only through the
application of advanced farming techniques, which are more appropriate to
larger farming units whether operated by groups or individuals. Efforts
to encourage such farm development should complement support for small-
holders.
27.       Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the
agriculture sector and to utilize a substantial proportion of revenues from
oil, a depleting asset, to expand and diversify the rest of the economy in
which agriculture is the dominant sector. In the revised Third Five-Year
Development Plan, a total of US$4.8 billion has been earmarked for the
sector to support a targeted growth rate of 5 percent. The actual level of
expenditure may be lower, however, as a result of fiscal constraints and
estimated growth is about 1 percent per annum. The Plan includes develop-
ment of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of modern
farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and market-
ing services and support for various integrated development projects. Rural
development programs along these lines are to be promoted with complementary
investments in secondary and feeder roads, rural electrification, health
and other social services.



-- 8)-
28.       The Government's main objective in the short-term is to improve
the domestic price stability of basic food crops and to ensure adequate food
supplies for the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background
of assuring domestic food supplies, Government's long-term objectives are to
create a prosperous and efficient agricultural industry that will restrain
the population drift to urban centers and revive the role of Nigeria as an
exporter of agricultural produce. Success in this endeavor will be contin-
gent, however, upon overcoming a number of development constraints in the
sector.
Development Contraints
29.       Undoubtedly, one of the principal development constraints to the
sector is the lack of effective agricultural support services. The transport
of produce is hampered by lack of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel
long distances to obtain fertilizers and other basic farm inputs which, in
many cases, are in irregular supply. Consequently, even with prevailing
levels of subsidies on farm inputs, production has not increased significantly
and has actually declined in some areas. Extension services are generally
deficient and the new technologies that are available are not reaching farmers
in remote rural areas. A greater effort is required, particularly by the
agricultural research institutions, to improve the analysis of technical,
economic and financial aspects of farming innovations and adapt them to the
different socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
30.       Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector and present Government subsidy policies have served to
remove commercial incentive for private sector participation in the distri-
bution of fertilizers and -other supplies and services. While during a period
of high liquidity, it may have been possible to finance a high level of sub-
sidies as an instrument for redistributing oil revenues to the rural sector
and for encouraging the adoption of unfamiliar and possibly risky technolo-
gies, there is now a need to reasses this policy in the light of the current
high demand for farm inputs and the tighter fiscal constraints facing Nigeria
today. The implications of the Federal Government's subsidy policy for the
long-term growth of the agricultural sector have been discussed with Govern-
ment on a number of occasions and, most recently, within the context of a
sector review mission that visited Nigeria in March 1978. While we believe
that the Federal Government generally shares the views of the Bank on the
principle at issue, in view of political realities it is likely to adopt a
more cautions and gradual approach to the phasing-out of input subsidies.
No firm timetable for such action has yet been established and it is
unlikely to materialize until after the elections.
31.       Furthermore, it would appear that, given the size of Nigeria's
massive development program, Government should divest itself progressively of
responsibilities for marketing both farm inputs and farm produce since this
function can be handled more efficiently by private enterprise. This would
require the creation of an economic framework appropriate to profitable in-
tervention of private entrepreneurs in the agriculture service sector and, in
that context, a redefinition of the roles of Federal and State agricultural
ministries and of the Marketing Boards.



- 9 -
32.       The Federal Government is generally aware of these constraints and
of the need for further improvements in planning and executive capabilities
at both the State and Federal levels. There is a dearth of technical and
managerial personnel at all levels which suggests a need for greater ration-
alization of the responsibilities of public agencies and for much closer
coordination in the activities of such agencies, if the effectiveness of
available manpower is to be maximized.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
33.       Since 1971 the Bank has approved loans for thirteen agricultural
projects in Nigeria. Of these thirteen projects, one relates to livestock,
seven others relate to the development of specific crops (oil palm, cocoa
and rice) while the remaining five relate to the general agricultural devel-
opment of target areas and are similar in structure to the proposed project.
Among this latter group the three northern projects (Loans 1092-UNI,
1099-UNI and 1164-UNI) are now well established and their success has demon-
strated the advantages of planned agricultural development implemented under
a reformed administrative structure which allows overall State control while
affording management full day-to-day operational autonomy. Government and
the Bank have been able to review together the progress of these projects,
and are generally satisfied with the approach adopted. Both Federal and
State Governments are anxious to replicate this project structure in other
States of the Federation. There is also interest in increasing the role
of the commercial agricultural sector in line with the approach pursued by
these projects. In this respect, the projects are acting as catalysts of
change on a much wider basis than was initially envisaged.
34.       In addition to the continuing dialogue on agricultural subsidies,
the Bank's agricultural development projects also address and contribute to
resolving other critical issues and bottlenecks to sector growth. Among
these issues is the procurement and distribution of farm inputs which,
being centralized at the Federal level, results in inefficient supply to
farmers. Another central issue is the failure of the Nigerian Agricultural
and Cooperative Bank to provide a viable framework for the development of
smallholder and commercial farm credit. Yet another shortcoming is the
inadequacy of physical infrastructure such as feeder roads. The existing
and proposed Bank financed agricultural development projects would provide
for the better procurement and distribution of inputs, farm credit, and
physical infrastructure as an integrated minimum development package that
will permit agricultural take-off in any given area.
35.       The most critical physical constraint facing Nigerian agricul-
ture today, however, is a lack of experienced manpower at the managerial,
administrative and technical levels to plan and implement development
programs. The short-term solution to this problem adopted in Bank-
supported projects is international recruitment and the establishment of
special project management units. However, a long-term solution would
necessarily involve the training of Nigerian management staff. To this
end, and at the request of Government, the Bank has appraised a project for



- 10 -
the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute.
Furthermore, training components are included in all of the Bank-financed
projects. The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit (APMEPU) created under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1092-UNI) is also being expanded with the help of additional assis-
tance from the Bank provided under the Ayangba Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1455-UNI). The monitoring of the proposed Ilorin project
would be conducted in close liaison with the APMEPU. The proposed project
would include an expanded training component based on experience with other
ongoing projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.        The proposed project was first identified in October 1976 by a
Bank mission which visited Kwara State to review its agricultural potential.
Following field studies and discussions with both State and Federal officials,
full agreement was reached on a project concept and on a schedule for project
preparation. Subsequently the Federal Government contracted a team of con-
sultants, assisted by Federal and State counterpart staff, to prepare a
feasibility study which was completed in August 1977. The project was
appraised by the Bank in November and December 1977 and the Staff Appraisal
Report (2087-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held with the Nigerian authorities in November 1978.
Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
37.        The primary objective of the proposed project is to raise the
productivity and, hence, the incomes of an estimated 90,000 farm families
located in the central part of Kwara State around the state capital city of
Ilorin. The project area covers about one fifth of the State, including
some of the more densely populated rural districts, and the existing
infrastructure of communications and administration is relatively good.
The typical farmer in this area cultivates an average of only 2.5 hectares
which he holds under the traditional land tenure system. Smallholdings of
this size yield an average annual family income of US$925 under present
agricultural practices. Average family incomes would be raised some 20
percent in real terms by the end of the five year project period, which
constitutes a major improvement compared with the present static production
performance.
38.        The vehicle for accomplishing this goal consists of a package of
services to assist farm and crop development, together with strategic invest-
ment in supporting infrastructure such as land clearing and development, and
feeder roads. To implement the project a management unit would be set-up
with appropriate technical and administrative staff. The project concept
underlying the proposed loan corresponds closely to that which has been
applied successfully in a number of previous Bank loans to Nigeria. The
agricultural development projects in Funtua, Gusau, Gombe, Lafia, and Ayangba



- 11 -
are cases in point. It is anticipated that the experience derived from these
previous loans would be directly relevant to the implementation of the pro-
posed project. In some cases it may be possible to transfer managerial staff
from previous well established projects to the proposed project. Where such
transfers are possible, past experience shows that the managers can bring
with them a built-in know-how of Nigerian conditions that enables project
implementation to move ahead at an accelerated pace.
39.       Past experience has shown that the majority of small-scale farmers
in Nigeria are quite conservative in their adherence to traditional farming
practices. Only a progressive minority are likely to adopt advanced produc-
tion methods within the project period. Accordingly, the project is struc-
tured in such a way as to offer both a Basic Service Package (BSP) and an
Advanced Service Package (ASP). It is expected that the main benefits of the
BSP would accrue from modest applications of inorganic fertilizers, the use of
improved seeds, increased planting densities and the better control of disease,
pests and weeds. Participants in the ASP, on the other hand, would be en-
couraged to adopt a range of advanced production methods. Modest amounts of
farm credit would be made available to farmers for farm development and crop
finance. A noteworthy innovation within the context of advanced production
methods would be the introduction of minimum tillage technology which protects
the fragile topsoil from erosion by reducing soil disturbance to a minimum
during planting. Since the large-scale application of minimum tillage farming
to Africa is a pioneering effort, only a minority of ASP farms are expected to
adopt this approach in the first instance. Nevertheless, the eventual aim
would be to promote minimum tillage to the utmost once the techniques of
large-scale application were thoroughly tested.
40.       Crop development under the ASP would require a land area of 9,600 ha
to be cleared and stumped and a total of 12,000 ha to be conserved through the
construction of graded terraces. A separate mechanical land development unit
would be established under the project to carry out this work. It is clear,
however, that the planning of land development cannot be left simply to the
project management and participating farmers. It should also involve community
leaders, State authorities and Local Government Councils. The project would
establish a detailed planning exercise with the aim of introducing land planning
concepts to the recently restructed Local Government Administration. The proj-
ect would aim also to provide technical planning support to Local Government
Councils on a broader basis to encourage coordination of the full range of
development initiatives in rural areas.
41.       In terms of farm and crop development the project estimates that
production of both subsistence and cash crops will be increased on a total
land area of some 86,000 ha. A key element of the project would be to
strengthen extension services by raising the ratio of field staff to farmers
from the present low level of 1:1,200 to a more effective level of 1:500. The
extension service would operate from 20 farm service centers to be established
throughout the project area. In addition to general extension advice, a farm
management advisory service would be established to provide technical advice
to those farmers who are likely to extend their cultivation to somewhat larger
farms of about 5 hectares within the framework of the ASP.



- 12 -
42.       Other support services provided by the project would include farm
trials to test new technology and farming practices, crop protection services,
and seed multiplication. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
adequate land will be made available for this purpose. Yet another service of
the project would entail a reorganization of the local Tractor Hire Unit to
improve its operational efficiency and cost effectiveness. In this context
the project will increase annual vehicle utilization from 200 hours per tractor
to at least 500 hours per tractor by the seventh project year. The aim will
be to eliminate the need for subsidies by raising operating efficiency.
43.       To complement the farm and crop development effort, some 300 km
of low cost gravelled feeder roads would be constructed or improved.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, prior to completion of the
project, the State Government would prepare detailed long-term plans
including the designation of institutional responsibilities and funding
procedures acceptable to the Bank for the maintenance of about 1,000 km of
project area roads (see Section 2.12 of Project Agreement). Other civil
works include the provision of housing for project staff and buildings for
the project administration, including, in addition to a headquarters
complex, 20 farm service centers complete with service facilities. In the
longer run these structures will provide the local government administra-
tion with required infrastructure for continuing agricultural support
services.
44.       Another key component of the project consists of consultant
services, estimated at 60 man-months, to assist the State Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) and the project management in
start-up operations for the project, as well as to prepare plans and
studies in a number of areas. These would include detailed plans for
training and staff development, the introduction of new technology in the
project area and a broader review of state agricultural policies and
strategies. The consultants would also prepare a feasibility study for a
second-stage project. The consultants will be recruited internationally,
either as firms or individuals and the cost of their services is estimated
at US$8,000 per man-month (consisting of US$5,000 fees and an allowance of
US$3,000 for travel and per diem expenses). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that IPMU would be responsible for the preparation of detailed
terms of reference for review and approval by the Bank so as to ensure that
consultants will be appointed with qualifications, experience and on condi-
tions and terms satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 2.04 of Project Agree-
ment).
45.       In addition to consultant services contracted at the State level,
the project would also provide US$8.0 million (including contingencies) to
finance consultant services for the Federal Government to prepare feasibility
studies for 13 possible future agricultural projects. These would include
projects in agricultural research, agricultural credit, irrigation, live-
stock and marketing. In addition there would be other general agricultural
development projects similar to the proposed Ilorin project including at
least one that would be statewide in scope. It is anticipated that many



- 13 -
of these projects may prove to be suitable for Bank financing at some future
date after 1982. It is expected that international consultants would provide
the main input into these feasibility studies but the participation of local
firms would be encouraged where possible. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that APMEPU would be responsible for preparing terms of reference
for review by the Bank prior to the engagement of consultants. Consultants
would have appropriate qualifications and experience and would be employed on
conditions and terms satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.02(a) of Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
46.       Following the precedent of other similar Bank-financed projects,
an Ilorin Project Management Unit (IPMU) would be established to implement
the project. The IPMU would work closely with the MANR so that technical
innovations developed by the project would be disseminated throughout the
State. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of IPMU would focus not only on
project operations but would also provide an input to the State's long-term
planning needs. Furthermore, the senior training officer of the Unit would
work closely with Local Government Councils (LGC) to develop training pro-
grams for their staff in areas related to project activities. This will
facilitate the eventual take-over of the project by LGC staff when the IPMU
is phased-out. During the fourth year of implementation, the Federal and
State Governments, together with the Bank, would review project progress and
plans drawn up by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of IPMU and would make
recommendations for the future of the project (see Section 2.13 of Project
Agreement).
47.       The IPMU would be responsible for the procurement, distribution
and sale of fertilizer, seeds, insecticides, other farm inputs and equipment.
It would also administer farm credit under the project. Small amounts of
medium-term (5 year) credit would be provided to finance capital developments
under the Advanced Service Package. It is estimated that the average develop-
ment credit required would amount to only N 280 although larger amounts would
be available if needed up to a maximum of N 10,000. Such credit would bear
interest of 9-1/2 percent. Experience on other projects shows that the
demand for short-term credit is not very great in the prevailing situation
of highly subsidized farm inputs. Nevertheless some seasonal credit, re-
payable within 12 months, would be provided. Interest rates for farm credit
would be related to the overall interest rate structure in Nigeria.  The
current commercial bank rate is 9 percent and the NACB (which acts principally
as a wholesale bank) lends at 7 percent. In the context of current inflation
these interest rates are negative in real terms. Over the three year period
1975-77, inflation averaged 26 percent annually and it is projected to average
20 percent in the coming three year period. There has been a tendency in
recent years to gradually increase interest rates. It was agreed during
negotiations that interest on project farm credit should be subject to auto-
matic adjustment in line with other prominent interest rates. Accordingly, it
was agreed that medium-term credit would bear an annual interest rate of 9-1/2
percent or of 2 percent above NACB's maximum current lending rate, whichever is
higher. Seasonal loans would carry a service charge of 10 percent or of



- 14 -
2-1/2 percent more than the NACB rate, whichever is higher (see Schedule 2
(3) of Project Agreement). All credit would be closely supervised by IPMU
to minimize the risk of resource misallocation.
48.       Overall control of the IPMU would be exercised by the Ilorin Project
Executive Committee (IPEC) under the chairmanship of the MANR Permanent Secre-
tary. Membership of the IPEC would include representatives of the principal
state ministries and of project area local government councils. The Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development would also be represented. The
chief administrative officer of the IPMU would act as secretary of the IPEC.
The principal functions and responsibilities of the IPEC would be to determine
project policy, exercise budgetary and financial control, approve annual work
programs and appoint senior technical and management staff. Another important
function would be to ensure cooperation and coordination between state minis-
tries and local government bodies in matters affecting project implementation.
Promulgation in the official gazette of the constitution and the terms of
reference for both IPMU and IPEC would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(see Section 6.01(c) of Loan Agreement).
49.       Staffing of the management unit is germane to the expeditious
implementation of the project. Experience shows that there is great scarcity
in Nigeria of manpower with the experience and capability necessary to manage
a project of this nature. In the case of similar projects in the past the
Bank encouraged state governments to recruit Nigerian staff for key positions.
Apart from a few exceptions, however, the results were generally disappoint-
ing. The project makes provision, therefore, for the international recruit-
ment of key personnel. On previous occasions the Bank's own Agricultural
Projects Management Unit for West Africa (APMU) has assisted both State and
Federal Governments in the selection and recruitment of international staff.
A request has been received from KWSG that APMU provide services for the
present project and advertising and selection procedures are already under
way. The appointment of a project manager and chief accountant would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(d) of Loan Agreement). A
senior training officer would be appointed no later than December 31, 1979.
The Kwara State Government would agree to the prompt secondment to IPMU of
appropriate technical and other staff from the State Ministry of Natural
Resources, and project area LGCs would transfer their extension staff and
extension functions to IPMU (see Section 2.11(c) of Project Agreement).
Project Costs
50.       Total costs for the project period 1978-83 (including taxes and
duties of US$5.6 million) are estimated at US$64.4 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would amount to 42 percent or US$27.2 million.
A breakdown of cost by major expenditure categories is given in the loan and
project summary. An allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal
to 5 percent of base costs for all items. Price contingencies for foreign
costs allow for an annual rate of international inflation between 6 and 8
percent. Price contingencies for local costs are estimated at 20 percent
per annum except for government-hired labor, the cost of which is expected
to rise by 13 percent a year over the project period. On the basis of these
considerations, total contingencies are estimated at US$21.1 million -- some
49 percent of base costs.



- 15 -
Project Financing
51.       The proposed loan of US$27 million would finance 46 percent of total
project cost net of tax and would be equivalent to almost the entire foreign
exchange cost of the project. Apart from US$4.6 million (including contingen-
cies) destined to finance the foreign exchange cost of feasibility studies,
the remaining US$22.4 million would be relent by the Borrower to the Kwara
State Government on the same terms as the Bank loan. The Federal Government
would carry all the foreign exchange risk, however. The signing of a subsi-
diary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Kwara State Government would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(a) of Loan Agreement).
52.       Of the US$37.4 million remaining project cost, the Federal Govern-
ment would finance US$17.6 million and the Kwara State Government would
finance the other US$19.8 million. Their contribution to total project
cost, therefore, would amount to 27 percent and 31 percent, respectively.
53.       A number of ongoing Bank-financed agricultural development projects
are suffering from a failure of the Government to provide adequate counter-
part funding in a timely manner. In some cases there have also been adminis-
trative delays in passing Bank funds to the project unit. In order to reduce
such problems to a minimum, agreement was obtained during negotiations
on the following points: a) that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, a
commercial bank account be opened for the IPMU with an initial deposit of
N1.0 million (see Section 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement); b) that the Bank would
disburse funds directly to IPMU's commercial bank account; c) that IPMU
submit to the Federal Government, the State Government and to the Bank, at
least 4 months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, an annual budget
proposal for the project as approved by the Project Executive Committee; d)
that both the FMG and the KSG provide their quarterly contribution to the
project at least 3 months in advance in accordance with the approved annual
budget; e) that the KSG extend its guarantee to any overdrafts drawn by the
IPMU up to an equivalent of six month's project expenditure requirements;
f) that Government subventions to cover subsidies on farm inputs for the
project be paid to IPMU no later than September of the year prior to procure-
ment of the inputs; and g) that IPMU's audited accounts be submitted to the
Bank within four months after each fiscal year together with a statement from
the auditor certifying that Bank funds had been used for their intended
purpose. These understandings are reflected in Sections 2.02, 2.10 and 3.02
of the Project Agreement.
Cost Recovery
54.       Present Government policy is to provide substantial subsidies for
many farm inputs, especially in the case of fertilizers where subsidies amount
to 80 percent of the cost. Farm inputs other than those subject to official
subsidies would be sold to smallholders at full cost. Likewise, the project
beneficiaries would be charged commercial prices for plant protection and
tractor hire. For the land development schemes, an annual charge of N15



- 16 -
per hectare would be made to farmers for the first three years, increasing
thereafter to N21 per hectare. This represents a substantial increase over
present charges (N2 per ha) and would allow full recovery of costs inclusive
of capital and interest charges of 9 percent per annum over 50 years. The
charges would be subject to review periodically by the Bank and Kwara State
to determine their adequacy in the light of prevailing economic conditions
(see Section 2.10(c) of Project Agreement).
Procurement
55.       Contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles, tractors and heavy
equipment valued at US$100,000 or more would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. The aggregate cost
of such items of procurement is estimated at about US$10.7 million net of
contingencies. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed 15 percent
preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes
of bid evaluation. Local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank would be employed for contracts over US$30,000 but
less than US$100,000. For contracts of less than US$30,000 local competitive
shopping would be employed. Experience with similar projects shows that
contracts for houses, stores, buildings and the formal irrigation works
(having an estimated aggregate value of about US$8.2 million) would not
be attractive to foreign contractors because of the small size of individual
contracts and the dispersed location of the works. Such contracts would
therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The construction of roads would be
undertaken by the project on force account due to a continuing shortage of
dependable contractors able to undertake this type of work. The total value
of these items is estimated at US$1.7 million. The services of consultants
and internationally recruited staff (valued at US$9.5 million) would be
obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Salaries and
operating expenses constitute a major element of the project cost (US$13.2
million).
56.       Some other Bank-financed agricultural development projects are
encountering difficulties in the procurement of items through the intermedia-
tion of centralized public sector agencies. The problems are particularly
acute in the area of fertilizer, where the Federal Ministry of Agriculture
acts as the sole official importer and distributor. To ensure the timely
delivery of fertilizers, it was agreed at negotiations that the procurement of
fertilizer for the present project and for all other Bank projects would be
handled by the Government separately from other fertilizer procurement. It
was further agreed that the procurement of fertilizer for all Bank-assisted
projects in the aggregate would be subject to international competitive
bidding in accordance with an agreed timetable which would be monitored
jointly by the Bank and the Government with a view to identifying and removing
any sources of slippage. This procurement process would be subject to review
after two years to determine its efficacy (see Section 2.03 (b) of Loan
Agreement).



- 17 -
Disbursement
57.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1979-1983.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles, equipment, farm inputs, construction costs and the salaries
of internationally recruited staff. Where items are locally procured, dis-
bursement would be made against a lower proportion of costs -- 90 percent in
the case of vehicles and equipment, 85 percent in the case of farm inputs and
45 percent in the case of construction costs. On this basis total disburse-
ments are estimated at US$6.6 million against vehicles and equipment, US$4.9
million against farm inputs, US$4.5 million against civil works and US$8.8
million against internationally recruited staff, consultants and overseas
training of local staff. An additional provision of US$2.2 million has been
made on an unallocated basis.
Economic Benefits
58.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 24 percent
for the Ilorin project as a whole excluding the feasibility studies. The ERR
for the Basic Service Package, having an estimated cost of about US$46
million, is 31 percent. The ERR for the Advanced Service Package, having a
much lower cost of about US$9 million, is only 11.5 percent.  However, the
benefits of minimum tillage farming -- still an experimental technology in
Africa -- may well be higher than the conservative estimates used in this
project evaluation. The high overall rate of return is mainly due to the
introduction of low cost technological innovations that are expected to result
in significant increases in crop yields over the present low levels. Sensi-
tivity tests show that even if farmer adoption rates are only 70 percent of
targeted levels the economic rate of return would still be 15 percent. These
tests suggest that the project would still be economically viable if achieve-
ments are significantly less than anticipated.
59.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be drawn from the poorest
income groups in Nigeria. The present level of farm income in the project
area amounts to an average of only US$130 per capita. If the project achieves
its target of raising farm incomes by about 20 percent in real terms it will
have a major beneficial effect upon nutritional standards in the area and will
contribute significantly to meeting the basic needs of the 90,000 farm families
directly benefiting from the project.
60.       In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other
major, albeit non-quantifiable benefits. The training of technical staff
and the development of appropriate institutions would strengthen the cap-
abilities of the Kwara State Ministry of Natural Resources. This would
facilitate the planning and implementation of future projects in the state
and set the stage for a possible expanded state-wide program of agricultural
development some time in the future. The project would also demonstrate the
viability of commercial development of support services and the benefits of
decentralizing public sector operations in agricultural development, all of
which may have a far-reaching and profound impact upon the broader policies
and programs of the Government in the agricultural sector. Furthermore, the



- 18 -
successful introduction to Africa of minimum tillage technology would have a
major impact upon the productivity of future agricultural projects in Nigeria
and other countries as well as significant environmental benefits in terms of
controlling erosion.
61.       Other benefits are relatively modest.  Since the project would be
geared principally to family farms, most of the incremental employment
(estimated at 6,700 man-years) would be supplied by family labor. Some
non-farm employment in other sectors would be induced, however, by the
higher level of economic activity in the project area. Insomuch as Nigeria
is a net importer of food, some US$5.4 million of foreign exchange would be
saved by way of import substitution when the project reaches full maturity.
Project Risks
62.       Smallholder agricultural development projects are inherently
complex and the full attainment of project benefits may conceivably be
jeopardized by delays in implementation and inadequate staffing. These
risks would be reduced by the international recruitment of personnel and by
having as a condition of effectiveness the appointment of senior project
management. The potential risk of insufficient counterpart funding would be
reduced by the financial covenants to which agreement was obtained during
negotiations. Risks of a technical nature are not great because the tech-
nological packages are conceptually fairly simple and are supported by
research data and experience obtained elsewhere in Nigeria. A major advan-
tage for project implementation will be the experience to date on other
similar Bank-assisted agricultural development projects in Nigeria.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Kwara
State of Nigeria and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this Report. Conditions of loan effectiveness are (a) signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Kwara State; (b) the estab-
lishment of a project bank account by Kwara State with an initial deposit of
N1.0 million; and (c) promulgation by Kwara State in the Official Gazette
of a notice establishing the Ilorin Project Management Unit and the Ilorin
Project Executive Committee in a form and with powers and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank; and (d) the appointment of a project manager and chief
accountant.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
.                                                             President
Attachments
March 5, 1979
Washington, D. C.



- 20 -                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                     /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             923.8                                                       SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      445.0                                   MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    120.0        200.0      420.0            223.6       432.3         867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        34.0         52.0       90.0              86.7       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          51.6         66.2       79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0            23.0       26.0             13.6        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         56.0          72.0      86.0              18.4        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0           152.0     178.0              53.6        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.0 fL      44.8       45.1              44.4        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           54.9 /f      53.0       52.6              52.7        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.1 /f        2.2        2.3              2.8         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.5        2.5              2.6         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                 5.0         5.0         5.0              5.8         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        49.3         49.8       49.3             46.9        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        26.9         24.5       22.7             20.6        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.3        3.3              3.1         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..               2.5        14.2         20.0
POD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               97.0        100.0       87.6              94.2       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF.
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     91.0 L/       89.0      88.0              90.1        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            50.0 I&      59.9       46.3              55.2        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.7 Is      16.3        9.3              17.1        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..           ..         ..               ..         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5            38.5       41.0             43.7        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             207.0           ..      163.0            138.4        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..              22.4        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..              66.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..              10.4        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        ..              23.9        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..              70.3        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..              14.2        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           56900.0/h   24660.0/f 25440.0             21757.5      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        7640.0/h    5070.0/i  6230.0             3473.8      2762.5       [462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2770.0/h.t  2220.0    1900.0               645.4       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                  *-       400.0          *'            172.9       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                  *-     18450.0         ..            1292.6      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..             19.2        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..               4.9          ..          5.2
URBAN                                  *-           *-       4-7               5.0          *-          5.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..               4.7          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..            ..        ..                ..          ..          2.0
URBAN                                 3.0           *-       2.2                ..         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                ..          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                ..        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                                       42.4                          10 34 67.8
RURAL                                  ...                     ...                        10.3         34.1



- 21 -                                                             AMNEX I
Page 2 of5
TABLE 31.
NIGERLA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 36.0        34.0       49.0            52.1        75.8        99.8
FEfALE               27.0         25.0      39.0             37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         4.0       10.0             8.0        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0       7.0              5.0       12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0          8.5        3.8 /k          7.2         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIfARY                            30.0        34.0       34.0            43.2        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                          19.0        21.0       25.0            22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        25.0 1         *-        *-            20.3        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         1.0        2.1             3.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0        23.0       69.0            40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2         1.4        1.8             2.2        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0         5.0        9.0             3.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                 .        0.5              1.2        1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0 /f  25600.0   29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.3        40.6       40.2            32.6        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              71.0        67.0       61.0            73.3        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.4        13.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.7        40.5       39.1            42.0        37.8        33'.8
MALE                                 50.9        48.8       47.4            54.8        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               34.8        32.4       31.0            27.3        20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4 /f       1.2       1.2              1.2        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                           25.7        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .                                   55.1        48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     .                                     5.8         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .           .                        14.5        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .          .                       108.8       155 9       191 9
RURAL                                 ..         ..       74.0            74.1        97 9       193.1
EST IMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                    175.0           124.4       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                ..          .        83.0            59.6        87.3       197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
*                   URBAN                                             .       33.0            26.8        22.9        19.8
RURAL                                                    27.0             47.6       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Interuediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  If  1963;  LI  1961-63;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practicing in the country;    Li  Including ex-north Cameroons under British aduinistration;   /k  certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of a vocational of technical
nature are now reported under general education;   L  prior to 1965.
September, 1978



22 -                                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
dEfINIriONS OF SOCIAL LW:iA
Notesr Although the data ore drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they nay not be inter-
narionally cosparahie because of the lock of atandardized definitions and concepta used by different countries fr collecting the data.  The data  re.  noetheless,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differences between countries.
The adjuoted groop aversaRs  for eshb indicator  re papolation-weighted geometric .a.n., secludfng the  eretre values of the fedi-rtor and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on  -vailobility of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplut Oil EIporters and indicators of access to water and excrets disposal, housing. icone distribution and poverty are
simple  topilHcto'efcl,vd grtvetic neons without the exclusion of extreme value.
LA1ND ARYA (thcusund  q. kh)                                                               PPuisti-on per hc-s-tco  bhd -  otal,  rban  and rursl - Population (total,
Total - Ictsl surface area conprising land arte  and inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Aaricsltural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitati.n centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at ilst one physician.  Establishm.ents providing principally custodial
care are not incloded.  Rural hospitals  bowever, include health asd medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices.,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
calculated by seie Converuion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodaticn and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hoepital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGiY CONSIeiPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of com-ercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, uatural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gno-
therasl electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per copita.                     HOUSING
Average sie of household (persons Per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-esar (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban populotiun (portent of total) - Ratio of urban to trual popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions  of urban area  may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban  and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, reepsetively.  Dwellings emclude non-permanent structures end
Per   q. kh.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total are.                                                                          Aco.s. to s1ootricity (percent of dwellings) - tntal. urban, asd rural -
Per  q. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     ConventioalI dwellings with e1octricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (i-14 ye-a), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year populctino.                                                                      Adjusted unroll ns rutius
Population arowtb raeaecn)-ttl   nd urban - Compuond aumual                              Primary school - total, sod fema.le - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total sodrban mbid-year populations for 1950-6,                          at the primary level as percentages Pf respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
aid-year populotion; ten-year 00ithhetic avaregen ending in 1960 and                     catio- enrollmen ma y exceed 100 p-ecent since nOe  pupils 0r0 below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for m-at recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crde death rate (par thousand) - Annu-l deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary ochos1 - total, and fnsle - Computed as above; oecondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithsetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                           video gen.ral vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Geose reproduction ern - Av-r-se number of daughters a woman vill bear                      Usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence coarnes are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        ecluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Favily planning - acceptors. annua  (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
occeptor-  of birth-con-rol d-vic.s under auspicea of national family                 Pupil-teacher rctio - Primary, and oooond-ry - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corce-
Pumily planning - users (percent of married woman) - Percentage of                         sponding lovels.
arried women cf child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult lit-erac  rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                             percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSU'dPTION
Indea of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index nuaber of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand populatioo) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita snnual production of all food commodities,                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percept of reqsirementel - Compoted from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio reco ivers (per thousand populatiun) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies tonpri.e domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
enporto, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recant years nay not be comporabla since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental teoper-ture, body                   TV receivers (per thous-nd population) - TV receivees for broadcast to gemerd
weights, age and sen distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                       tries snd in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of Protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shovs the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper    defined as a periodical publi-
abase.  Requirements for a11 c-utnice  established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording geonral news   It is considered to
o siuinum allowance of 6h  grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "doily" if it appears at least four tines a we..k
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animel protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capira per year - Bnsed on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold duting the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and  obile
23 grrus of animal protein uu an average for the sorld, proposed by                      units.
fAO in the Third World Food Srvey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food               EMdPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands  - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but e-cluding housowivos  students, etc.  Defini-
and in aSg  group 1-4 yea-s, t  children in this age group.                              tints in various countries are not co-p-rable
Female (perceot) - Foale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
NEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor forc  in faring, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth  (yrars) - Average number of yearn of life                        as percontage of tortl labor force.
r-maining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Induntry (percent) - Labor force in mising, ccnstruction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Inefat yrar iy rate  (pnr   thhuad;d) - A-nual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - totl, male. and female - Total, mal, and
one year of age per thousand live hirhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their r-spectivo populations.
Accens to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These ore I1O's udjuated participation rates reflecting ege-sno
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     strct-tre of the population,  and 1og tins trend.
sofl  water supply (includes treated surface  vaters or untreated but                 Ecrnomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected borehules, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-6A  yesrs.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
To an urban area a public fountaio or stnadpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
thon  i00 untars irue a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (bcth in cash snd kind) received by richest 5
sonahie access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the hausehold do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to ercreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (11$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                        Absolute poverty income level in that income level belov which a minimal
diopotal us perceotuges of theirrespective populations   Etcreta                          nutritionally adequate diet pius essential noo-foud requinre=ets is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordabl.
treatment.  of human encretr  and wasts-water by water-borne systems                  Estisated relative poverty income level (0US  Per capita) - urban and rural -
er the use of pit privies and sinilar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level ia that income level leas  than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians quolified ftom a aedical schocl at uni-rrity level.                        Estimated Population below poverty itcoe level (pencent) - urhb  and rural -
Population par n-rsing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of popuiatict (urban and rural) who sre either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical ncores, and                         "rclotive poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic ard Social Data Division
Ecunomic Acaiy.i. and Projections Department



ANNEX I
-23-                                             Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%  constant prices)
US$ Mln.      _                          1974-77              1                1977
GNP at Market Prices          39839         100.0                         7.4               11.3              5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119           30.4                        30.7               24.5             23.6
Gross National Saving         11101          28.3                        26.3               16.6             17.8
Current Account Balance       -1018           2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         12639          31.7                         1.9               14.7              9 9
Imports of Goods, Ni'S        13236          33.2                        33.1               31.0             17.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor ForcW-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    __                   Mn.                              US $
Agriculture                    9897       30.4                  18.3      61                     541          50
Industry                      15032       46.2                   5.2      17                    2891         265
Services                       7636       23.4                   5.0      17-                   1527         140
UnaIlocated                                                      1.4       5
Total/Average
32566      100.0                 29.9    I00.0    1089 I j                    05-
GOVERNMET FINANCE
General Government                              Central Government
(N   Mln.)      I   cf GDF                      (H    Mln.)         % of OD?
lqll/7R        191718  1976/7-1977/8             1977/8        1977/8    1976/7-77/8
Current Receipts                  -8809            34.1         34.8                 8359          32.3          32.7.
Current Expenditure                5nL17           19.5        19.0                    97         10.4           10.0
Current Surplus                    3762          -14.6          15.8                 56 2              7-
Capital Expenditures               8822            34.1 .       33.0                 6287          24.3          24.4
External Assistance (net)
MWNE!, CRDIT and PRICES                   1972         1973        1974         19           1976       1977
_aWillion  N  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                      1161.4      1414.1       2156.3      3622.5       5278.9    7067.5
Bank credit to Public Sector               519.0        497.1     -1460.1      -1281.5        199.5    2094.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               750.2       854.4       1070.2      1786.1       2417.8    3514.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.1        15.9         14.9       21.9         26.7      27.3
General Price Index (1960 - 100)            172.9       203.9        217.0       289.6       352.4    423.1
Annual percentage changes in:
Oeneral Price Index                          -3.5        17.9          6.3        33.5        21.7      21.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                -2.3         -4.2          n.a.       n.a.         n.a.    n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                26.9        12.7         26.6       66.8         35.4      45.3
W NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
I Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedlt consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices
Not applicable



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                            Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975--77)
1975     1976      1977                                                   US $ Mln 
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           8623      10549    12639              Crude Oil                            9281         91.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           8149      10517    13236              Cocoa Products                        380         3.7
Resource Gap (deficit   -)   474          "_32       -597             Palm Products                           44          .5
Tin                                    26          .3
Interest Payments (net)          460        386       311             411 Other Commodities                 439         4.2
Workers' Remittances               _   -                -
Other Factor Payments (net)   -741         -676      -547
Net Transfers                   -125       -156      -184
Balance on Current Account        b8       -414    -1018                     Total                        10170       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        410        340       440             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 107         61        94                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                  -34        -29       -61
Subtotal                       73         32        33              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                1284
capital Grants                    *-       *.                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Ocher Capital (net)             -254       -453      -110               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               - 40        +66      -199                                          1/
Increase in Reserves (+)         257       -429      -854             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
Gross Reserves (end year)    5896          5517      4617
Net Reserves   (end year)    5855          5426      4572               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
imports                       162         280       212
of which: PetroleumL          -         -          -
fExports                     7430        9468    10944
of which:  Petroleum       7430        9468    10944       IBRD/IDA IENDING, (Dec. 31. 1978) (Million US S):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRD          IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                450         38.3
1975:  N1.00  =  US$1.62                                           Undisbursed                             343          -
1976:  N1.00  =  US$1.60                                           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                       38.3
1977:  N1.00  =  US$1.55
1978:  1.00  =  US$1.58
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
Not Available
January, 1975



-25 -                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                                  US$ million
Number     Year      Borrower      Purpose                       Amount (less cancellations)
Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Eleven loans and two credits fully disbursed                    312.1      35.5
427       1965      Nigeria       Roads                         14.5                 2.5
764       1971      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                     7.2                  .0
814       1972      Nigeria       Education                     17.3                7.9
838       1972      Nigeria       Roads                         26.3               13.8
847       1972      NEPA          Power                         76.0                 2.5
922       1973      NPA           Port                          55.0                12.1
929       1973      Nigeria       Education                     54.0                47.8
1045       1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                    20.0                 8.9
1091       1975      Nigeria       Livestock                     21.0                17,6
1092       1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua             29.0                 6.0
1099       1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gusau              19.0                 2.6
1103       1975      Nigeria       Rice Dev.                     17.5                11.4
1164       1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gombe              21.0                 6.7
1183       1975      Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm           29.5                28.5
1191       1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm           19.0                16.6
1192       1976      Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm             17.0                14.2
1454       1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Lafia              27.0                24.5
1455       1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Ayangba            35.0                32.4
*1591       1978      Nigeria       Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil   30.0                  30.0
1597       1978      NIDB          Industrial Dev.               60.0                60.0
Total                                      907.4      35.5    346.0
Of which has been repaid                   114.2       1.6
Total outstanding 1/                       793.2      33.9
Amount sold                      16.8
of which has been repaid         15.8        1.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA**           792.2      33.9
Total undisbursed                          346.0       0.0    346.0
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                               Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.  Textile Mfg.           1.0      0.6       1.6
1970
1964        Nigeria Industrial   Dev. Fin. Co.                   1.4      1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973        Funtua Cottonseed    Veg. Oil               1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.         Crushing
1973        Nigerian Aluminum    Aluminum               1.0      0.3      1.3
Extrusion Ltd.        Processing
1974        Lagiagi Sugar          Sugar                         0.1      0.1
Estates_
Total Gross Commitments                    3.6      2.4       6.0
Less cancellations                       0.3               0.3
Less sold or repaid                      1.8      1.5      3.3
Total Commitments now held by IFC          1.5      0.9       2.4
Undisbursed                                  -      0.1       0.1
* Not yet Effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
l/Excluding cancellations of 5.0.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 427-UNI      Western Nigeria Road Project:  US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 764-UNI      Western Cocoa Project:  US$7.2 million Loan of
June 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 5, 1971;
Closing Date: January 31, 1979
The project has been successfully completed. Before formal closure,
the Bank is processing the final withdrawal application.
Loan No. 814-UNI      Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Disruptions caused by the creation of new State Governments in 1976
are no longer delaying the project. While progress is being made in the
implementation of the project in three of the four participating States, the
current financia[ constraints have affected 8 of the 9 schools in the project
in Imo State. The project should be completed during 1979, Discussions are
being held between the Bank and the Government with a view to strengthening
the project administration and making adequate provision for timely counterpart
funding. Once these issues have been resolved satisfactorily, the closing
date will be extended appropriately.
Loan No. 838-UNI      Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 847-UNI      Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
While the completion of thie rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 922-UNI      Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now on order and
will be in operation by the end of 1979. Total project costs are much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
A revision of the tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the
financial situation of the National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI      Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more.
Project administration was complicated by the partition of many states
in 1976. Discussions are being held between the Bank and the Government with
a view to strengthening the project administration and making adequate provi-
sions for timely counterpart funding. Once these issues have been resolved
satisfactorily, a proposed revision of the project scope and extension of the
closing date will be submitted to the Board for consideration.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and managerial problems, the project is almost completed in three of the four
states. Progress of the Bendel State component is now better because manage-
ment/organizational problems have been reduced.
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date:  July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart
funding from the Federal Government have been encountered. A contract has
recently been concluded with a management consulting firm and, as a result,
prospects for project implementation are greatly improved.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second stage project to
cover the remainder of Kaduna State is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and appraisal
objectives are being met and in some cases exceeded. Project unit costs are
some 25 percent above appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation.
There have been problems relating to the timely delivery of fertilizer
supplies which are centrally procured by the Federal Government. Recent
agreements between the Bank and the Government on the streamlining of
fertilizer procurement should help to resolve this problem. The possibility
of a second phase project is being examined.
Loan No. 1103-UNI    Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross Rivers State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Plans to reallocate the
remaining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States where physical
project progress is more satisfactory, will depend upon improved counterpart
funding.
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date:  December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. Problems in recruiting intermediate and junior staff continue.
There have been no delays in the provision of local counterpart funds. The
preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second-stage project to
cover the remainder of Bauchi State is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:
US$29.5 million Loan of December 31, 1975;
Effective Date: October 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal
targets have not been met for the smallholder component as a result of
financial and managerial problems. Management has improved recently but
planting targets are behind schedule. Cost overruns are likely to be
substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new states
and due to problems with intermediate and junior staffing. The latter have now
been resolved, but there are problems of local counterpart funding. Appraisal
targets have not been met and substantial cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component is progressing well but planting is
lagging behind appraisal targets, although the final target is likely to be
achieved. Problems with estate land acquisition and funding delayed effec-
tiveness and will result in a reduced planted area.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After experiencing some problem of local counterpart funding the
project is new progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project initially made satisfactory physical progress but is
now hampered by inadequate counterpart funding. This may jeopardize the
project if not remedied soon.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project:
US$30 million Loan of June 6, 1976; Effective Date:
March 31, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding towards effectiveness and physical progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 million
Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date:  October 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first sub-loan has
been processed and approved.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Ilorin Agricultural Development
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 9 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Federal Government
of Nigeria.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1976.
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1976.
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission: November/December 1977.
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 9, 1978.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: July 2, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Federal Government would onlend US$22.4 million to the Kwara
State Government under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the same
terms as the Bank loan. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 51).
(b) Senior staff of the Ilorin Project Management Unit (IPMU) would
be appointed with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A senior training officer
would be appointed no later than December 31, 1979. The appoint-
ment of a project manager and chief accountant would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 49).
(c) The Kwara State Government would open a commercial bank account
for the IPMU with an initial deposit of N1.O million as a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 53).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Kwara State Government would promulgate in the Official
Gazette the establishment of both the IPMU and the Ilorin Project
Executive Committee (IPEC) in a form and with powers and respon-
sibilities acceptable to the Bank as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (para. 48).
(e) The Kwara State Government would second appropriate technical
and other staff to the project in a timely manner (para. 40).
(f) Both the Federal Government and the Kwara State Government
would provide at least 3 months in advance their quarterly
financial contributions to the project in accordance with the
approved annual project budget (para. 53).



IBRD 13405
APRIL 1978
N- GE R I A
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Development Infrastructure and Land Planning Areas
- ,ro~evi , ,    .;boundary
Divisional boundories
A FR'E:F(-;piX t   A                                                                                                                                                                 - Main roads
______Secodaryrod
Other roods
)_ ,,,,  /                  /_</         @                        0       / , /                  LW                                                   =     = Rivers
* Area service  -not-n
od~~~~~~ S.d, ~~~~~~~Form  ser-ice centers
; / X *   9 )w_ > 5 ,e Sodu ,/4 X Enperimentol husbandry form
."             4          4              UEJidogrrl              0    \         -   gI                                                        @   Research subsat on
-L   Headquarters
S' /taFf training centers
~R)Maie -orkshrop
-         Synca  o nSpeca  6veloDent areas, olnd plonning
A ~ ~ ~ ~   ~          ~           ~          ~ ~
n5=,fl<,r,n-,,'uvciiv WcEC; cacc.errt /,                                                                                                          - tv,inu\n-,vr,cy
e.c,udtrrnri  icu,ruuiiuv.u Liuciu'ic  d i                          os_,,
aCceptaPce of such too/ndarles ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Oofn ,ek1
_~ ~~~~F _.



